RESILIENCE IN INVESTING
John Keells Holdings PLC
Annual Report 2020/21


JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC 
John Keells is an iconic business enterprise with a heritage of over 150 years and a reputation for strength, 
stability and resilience. Over the years, we have evolved our business model around a diverse portfolio of 
business sectors, curated to reflect the most prominent growth sectors of the economy. As one of  
Sri Lanka's largest diversified conglomerates, we strive to maintain the highest standards of governance 
and transparency, as we innovate with the latest digital technologies and invest in sustainable initiatives 
throughout our supply chains, creating employment and empowering rural communities across the island. 
Our story over the last few years has been characterised by our commitment to invest in both the tangible 
expansion of our businesses and the building of softer skills, which are of equal importance. Despite two 
challenging and unprecedented years, these investments have continued steadfastly, maintaining the 
depth and breadth of our long-term investment strategy which is now poised to come to fruition.
Investments in recent years have focused on a refurbished portfolio of Leisure properties and the 
acquisition of a long-term lease on a new hotel in the Maldives. The Group has also doubled its store 
footprint in the Supermarket business to over 120 outlets over the last three years while investing heavily 
in building its brand value, and enhanced its capacity and capability in the Frozen Confectionery and 
Insurance businesses. We consolidated our strategy in land banking to enable monetisation to generate 
steady returns to the Group. The most significant investment in our portfolio, 'Cinnamon Life', is nearing 
completion – a long and arduous journey over the last six plus years is now on the verge of transforming 
the city of Colombo and being a catalyst for tourism in the country, with revenue and profit recognition 
about to commence from the handover of the Residential and Office units. 
Our 'Resilience in Investing' is not merely based on the investment of financial capital – we have been 
pioneers and early adopters in many aspects of corporate transformation, whether it be adopting 
governance, sustainability or people related practices ahead of time. In recent years, we have pioneered 
a ground-breaking data analytics transformation journey, leveraging our unique data across our diverse 
portfolio in our vision to create value, by converting advanced analytics insights into frontline business 
interventions. We serve a diverse constitution of groups and individuals; from customers and communities 
to shareholders, suppliers, partners and employees, where our actions impact many different lives in many 
different ways. Our commitment to non-discrimination and equal opportunity continues to strengthen as 
exemplified by the launch of our 'ONE JKH' brand, together with an increased emphasis on gender parity 
and inclusion, where our goal is to increase the number of women in the workforce to 40 per cent.
The journey over the last couple of years has been challenging, to say the least, however, your company 
has weathered this storm through its 'Resilience in Investing', setting itself a strong platform for growth. 
Your company is now poised to fully benefit from its investments in the ensuing year and beyond.
RESILIENCE IN INVESTING

CONTENTS
NAVIGATING THIS REPORT
GROUP HIGHLIGHTS
4 
Introduction to the Report
6 
Our Business Model
8 
Industry Groups and Sectors
9 
Chairman's Message
19 
Investor Relations 
19 
Group Highlights
25 
Industry Group Highlights
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
35 
External Environment
38 
Capital Management Review
38 
Financial and Manufactured Capital
47 
Natural Capital
52 
Human Capital
58 
Social and Relationship Capital
63 
Intellectual Capital
66 
Industry Group Review 
66 
Transportation
75 
Consumer Foods
86 
Retail
96 
Leisure
109 
Property
118 
Financial Services
126 
Other, including Information  
Technology and Plantation Services
134 
Outlook
149 
Strategy, Resource Allocation and  
 
Portfolio Management
156 
Share Information 
Reference to other pages 
within the Report
Financial and Manufactured 
Capital
Human Capital
Social and Relationship 
Capital
Reference to further 
reading online
Natural Capital
Details of CSR  
projects available on  
www.johnkeellsfoundation.com/
Intellectual Capital
Reporting Guides
Capital Guides
This Annual Report is available on our website: 
www.keells.com/resource/annual-report/John_Keells_
Holdings_PLC_AR_2020_21_CSE.pdf
66
Transportation
75
Consumer Foods
86
Retail
96
Leisure
109
Property
118
Financial Services
126
Other, including 
Information Technology 
and Plantation Services
Chairman's  
Message
Investor 
Relations
Capital Management 
Review
9
19
38

ABOUT US
GOVERNANCE
165 
Corporate Governance Commentary 
181 
Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder  
 
Engagement and Materiality
184 
Risks, Opportunities and Internal  
 
Controls
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
187  Annual Report of the Board of Directors
192  The Statement of Directors'  
 
Responsibility
193  Independent Auditors' Report
196  Income Statement
197  Statement of Comprehensive Income
198  Statement of Financial Position
199  Statement of Cash Flows
200  Statement of Changes in Equity
202  Notes to the Financial Statements
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 
284 
History of the John Keells Group
285 
Decade at a Glance
286 
Economic Value Statement
288 
Indicative US Dollar Financial  
 
Statements
290 
Group Real Estate Portfolio
292 
Glossary
293 
Independent Assurance Statement on  
 
Non-Financial Reporting
296 
Group Directory
302 
GRI Content Index
IBC 
Corporate Information
John Keells Holdings PLC (JKH) is one of the largest listed companies on the Colombo Stock 
Exchange, with business interests primarily in Transportation, Consumer Foods, Retail, Leisure, 
Property and Financial Services. Started in the early 1870s as a produce and exchange broking 
business by two Englishmen, Edwin and George John, the Group has been known to constantly 
re-align, re-position and re-invent itself in pursuing growth sectors of the time.
JKH was incorporated as a public limited liability company in 1979 and obtained a listing on the 
Colombo Stock Exchange in 1986. Having issued Global Depository Receipts (GDRs) which were 
listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange, JKH became the first Sri Lankan company to be listed 
overseas.
The Group's investment philosophy is based on a positive outlook, bold approach, commitment to 
delivery and flexibility to change. JKH is also committed to maintaining integrity, ethical dealings, 
sustainable development and greater social responsibility in a multi-stakeholder context. JKH is a 
full member of the World Economic Forum and a Participant member of the UN Global Compact.
The Holding Company of the Group, John Keells Holdings PLC, is based at 117, Sir Chittampalam  
A. Gardiner Mawatha, Colombo 2 and has offices and businesses located across Sri Lanka and  
the Maldives.
www.keells.com/governance
 y
Director and Management Profiles
 y
Corporate Governance Commentary
 y
Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder 
Engagement and Materiality
 y
Risks, Opportunities and Internal Controls
 y
Articles of Association
 y
Progress Report UN Global Compact 
Initiatives
The Group has a variety of reporting formats to 
meet diverse stakeholder requirements.
Strategy, Resource 
Allocation and 
Portfolio Management
Share 
Information
Corporate Governance 
Commentary
Risks, Opportunities 
and Internal Controls
149
156
165
184
Further Reading Online

4   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
INTRODUCTION TO THE REPORT
We are pleased to present our sixth Integrated Report in accordance 
with the International <IR> Framework of the International Integrated 
Reporting Council (IIRC).
This Report reflects on:
 y
The value creation model of the Group, combining different forms of Capital in the short, 
medium and long-term
 y
Governance, risk management and sustainability frameworks entrenched within the  
John Keells Group
 y
Financial, operational, environmental and social review and results of the Group
In keeping this Report concise as possible and pertinent to the year under review, we have 
ensured that the commentaries in certain sections are limited to a helicopter view of the events 
and progress within the year, whilst the Group's standard policies, operating guidelines and 
management approaches are available on the corporate website.  
SCOPE AND BOUNDARY
The John Keells Annual Report 2020/21 is a reflection of the Group's integrated approach of 
management during the period from 1 April 2020 to 31 March 2021. Material events post this 
reporting period, up to the sign off date by the Board of Directors on 24 May 2021, have been 
included in this Report, ensuring a more relevant and up-to-date Report.
For the purpose of reporting its sustainability performance, all Group subsidiaries and equity 
accounted investees have been considered, barring companies in which the Group does not 
exercise significant management control, non-operational companies, managing companies, 
companies that rent out office spaces, investment companies and companies owning only land, 
which have been clearly identified in the reporting boundary specified in the Group Directory 
2020/21. The scope will also seek to report on companies over which it does not exercise 
significant management control, where relevant. 
INTEGRATED REPORTING AND GUIDING PRINCIPLES
The Group has strived to deliver a comprehensive, balanced and relevant Report, while adhering 
to the recommendations of the IIRC. The seven guiding principles in integrated reporting, as 
depicted, have been given due consideration when preparing and presenting this Report. 
Conciseness
Reliability and 
completeness
Materiality
Consistency 
and comparability
Stakeholder 
relationships
Strategic focus and 
future orientation
Connectivity of 
information
GUIDING PRINCIPLES
of the 2020/21  
JKH Annual Report
Reporting 
 y
International <IR> Framework of  
the IIRC
Governance, Risk Management 
and Operations
 y
Laws and regulations of the 
Companies Act No. 7 of 2007
 y
Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock 
Exchange (CSE) and subsequent 
revisions to date
 y
Securities and Exchange Commission 
of Sri Lanka Act No. 36 of 1987, 
including directives and circulars
 y
Code of Best Practice on Corporate 
Governance (2013) jointly advocated 
by the Securities and Exchange 
Commission of Sri Lanka (SEC) and the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of 
Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka)
 y
Code of Best Practice on Corporate 
Governance (2017) issued by CA 
Sri Lanka, to the extent of business 
exigency and as required by the Group 
Financial Reporting
 y
Sri Lanka Accounting Standards 
(SLFRS/LKAS) issued by CA Sri Lanka
Sustainability Reporting
 y
This Report has been prepared in 
accordance with the GRI Standards: 
Core option of reporting
 y
Aligned to United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals
 y
Operations in conformity with the 
Principles of the United Nations 
Global Compact  
 y
Environmental, Social and 
Governance (ESG) disclosures through 
the <IR> framework and operations in 
conformity with the Principles of the 
United Nations Global Compact  
STANDARDS AND 
PRINCIPLES
The Report strives to deliver a balanced and relevant report that will bring clarity and detail to the complex task of reporting a year 
of diverse business operations across multiple sectors.

5
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
DETERMINING MATERIALITY
Materiality analysis is a key process that enables the Group to define key triple bottom line issues  
that are of significance for businesses and stakeholders, both internal and external, in the short, 
medium and long-term. Our focus on materiality is vital as we seek to drive performance, improve  
our sustainability framework and institutionalise the Group's corporate governance philosophy at  
all levels.
The Group conducts an independent external stakeholder engagement survey every three to four 
years in ascertaining material topics to its significant stakeholders. In addition, materiality is also 
assessed internally in ascertaining the topics material to the Group and fine-tuning and streamlining 
its strategy and processes to manage these material issues. The outcomes of these studies are 
prioritised using a materiality matrix, representing their level of significance to the Group and its 
external stakeholders, and are then disclosed as per clearly defined topics under the GRI Standards.
Importance to external stakeholders
Importance to internal stakeholders
LOW
HIGH
Included in this Report  
and/or Company website
Need-based 
communication to relevant 
stakeholders
The preparation of the Report took 
place in cooperation with stakeholders 
in order to improve transparency and 
accountability. Feedback is gathered 
through questionnaires, a dedicated 
mailbox, one-on-one meetings and 
stakeholder engagement fora. 
A detailed discussion on determining materiality is available on the Corporate website at 
www.keells.com/governance.
CONTACT WITH 
STAKEHOLDERS
While the matrix, as illustrated, indicates the prioritisation of these material topics, the Group 
continues to assess its internal and external materiality and disclose the performance of such 
topics. Its reporting scope will be expanded as and when a topic becomes material to the Group 
and its stakeholders.
INFORMATION VERIFICATION AND 
QUALITY ASSURANCE
The Chairman-CEO, Deputy Chairman/Group 
Finance Director, Group Executive Committee 
and relevant management personnel are 
responsible for disclosures made in this Report. 
The Group makes every effort to ensure 
the credibility, reliability and integrity of the 
information presented in the Report. To this 
end, external assurance is also sought from 
independent auditors as outlined below.
The information contained in this Report has 
been reviewed, as applicable, by:
 y
The Board of Directors
 y
The Group Executive Committee
 y
Audit Committee of the Company
 y
An independent auditor confirming the 
accuracy of the annual financial statements
 y
An independent auditor confirming the 
accuracy of the non-financial statements in 
this Report, and that it has been prepared 
in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core 
option of reporting and International <IR> 
Framework 
DISCLAIMER FOR THE PUBLICATION OF FORECAST DATA 
The Report contains information about the plans and strategies of the Group for the medium and 
long-term and represents the management's view. The plans are forward-looking in nature and 
their feasibility depends on a number of economic, political and legal factors which are outside 
the influence of the Group and Company, including the situation of key markets, changes in 
tax, customs and environmental legislation and so forth. Given this, the actual performance of 
indicators in future years may differ from the forward-looking statements published in this Report. 
The reader is advised to seek expert professional advice in all such respects. 
As you navigate through the pages of this Report, you will find a relevant, transparent and 
noteworthy value proposition entrenched within the John Keells Group that strives to achieve the 
highest form of stakeholder satisfaction through sustainable value creation.

6   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
OUR BUSINESS MODEL
VISION: Building businesses that are leaders in the region
STAKEHOLDER RETURNS AND ENGAGEMENT
Fundamental forms of Capital deployed 
 
 
 
 
 
Value creation / preservation overtime 
 
INPUTS
VALUE CREATION INTERVENTIONS AND RETURNS
PROCESSES AND FRAMEWORKS
ACTIVITIES
FINANCIAL AND  
MANUFACTURED 
CAPITAL
 y
Shareholder funds and 
debt
 y
Cash flow from 
operations
 y
Land bank
 y
Machinery and 
operations
Corporate Governance Framework 
Human Resource Governance 
Integrated Risk Management Framework 
Information Technology Governance 
Tax Governance
Corporate Social Responsibility 
Group Policies
Mandatory regulatory frameworks 
Voluntary frameworks and mechanisms 
Sustainability Management Framework
Strategic, Resource Allocation and Portfolio 
Management 
Environmental, Social and Governance 
(ESG) Management 
Strategy Formulation and Decision-Making 
Stakeholder Management and Effective 
Communication 
JKH Code of Conduct 
Industry Groups
 y
Transportation
 y
Consumer Foods
 y
Retail
 y
Leisure
 y
Property
 y
Financial Services
 y
Other, incl. Information Technology and 
Plantation Services
 y
Effective and responsible investment of 
shareholder funds
 y
Business development activities
 y
Cost reduction initiatives
NATURAL 
CAPITAL
 y
Energy
 y
Water
 y
Other natural resources
 y
Environmental impact assessment and mitigation 
of impacts
 y
Roll out of carbon footprint and energy 
management initiatives
 y
Strengthening of water and waste management 
processes 
HUMAN 
CAPITAL
 y
Employee diversity
 y
Experience
 y
Skills and competencies 
 y
Leveraging on employee skills and expertise for 
business growth
 y
Training and development of employee cadre
 y
Performance management and appraisals
 y
Employee survey initiatives
 y
Structured career development programmes
SOCIAL AND 
RELATIONSHIP 
CAPITAL
 y
Dedicated CSR team
 y
Strategic and 
sustainable community 
development
 y
Investor relations 
and stakeholder 
management
 y
Staff volunteerism
 y
Health and safety 
initiatives
 y
Investment in community and livelihood development
 y
Regular dialogue with investors, analysts and other 
stakeholders
 y
Social impact assessments
 y
Identification of key stakeholders and material aspects 
in relation to them
 y
Awareness creation and engagement of suppliers
 y
Social needs assessment based on SDGs/UNGC/
national agenda
INTELLECTUAL 
CAPITAL
 y
Brand equity and 
stewardship
 y
Research and 
development
 y
Technological expertise
 y
Digital infrastructure
 y
Development of intangible infrastructure, 
processes and procedures to improve efficiency
 y
New product development
 y
Innovation
VALUES:        
CARING 
EXCELLENCE 

7
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    Transformed Capital that produces stakeholder value
VALUE DERIVED
OUTCOMES
ALIGNMENT 
WITH SDGs
OUTPUTS
INDICATORS AS AT 31 MAR 2021
 y
Shareholder returns and 
dividends
 y
Payments to other stakeholders
 y
Share price appreciation
 y
Financial stability
 y
Financial growth
 y
Creation of wealth
 y
Efficient disposal of all effluent 
and waste
 y
Reduction of carbon footprint
 y
Reduced resource consumption 
through better monitoring
 y
Sustainable natural resource 
utilisation
 y
Biodiversity preservation
 y
Staff motivation
 y
Talented and efficient workforce
 y
Job satisfaction
 y
Career progression
 y
Safe and equitable environment
 y
Alignment of workforce with 
Group vision
 y
Profitable businesses through 
improved productivity and 
efficiency
 y
Community skills development
 y
Well informed and sound 
investment decisions
 y
Better supplier/distributor and 
stakeholder relations
 y
Individuals and communities 
empowered with knowledge, 
skills and opportunities for a 
better future
 y
Brand visibility and reputation
 y
Strengthened supply chain
 y
Adherence to UN SDGs
 y
Patents
 y
Copyrights
 y
Evolving businesses to suit 
the ever changing, dynamic 
consumer
 y
An entity better prepared to  
face disruptive business models
Rs.226 billion
82%
756,153
Rs.4.9 billion
  LMD's Most Respected Entity 
  LMD Top 100 Entities 
0.64 MT
22%
Rs.537 billion
83
Rs.49 billion
23 hours
85%
9
13.19 m3
Rs.195.97 billion
70 : 30
Shareholder funds
Employee  
retention rate
Number of persons 
impacted by community 
engagements 
Value of intangible  
assets
Awards and accolades
Carbon footprint per 
Rs.million of revenue
Non-hazardous waste recycled/reused by Group 
companies and through third party contractors
Group assets
Injuries
Net debt (cash)
Average hours of 
training per employee
Proportion of purchases 
from suppliers within  
Sri Lanka
No. of start-ups under 
incubation
Water withdrawal  
per Rs.million of revenue
Market capitalisation
Male : Female  
staff ratio
TRUST 
 INNOVATION 
INTEGRITY

8   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
INDUSTRY GROUPS AND SECTORS
 y
Corporate Communications
 y
Corporate Finance and 
Strategy
 y
Data and Advanced Analytics
 y
Group Business Process 
Review
 y
Group Finance and Group 
Insurance
 y
Group Human Resources
 y
Group IT
 y
Group Tax
 y
Group Treasury
 y
John Keells Foundation
 y
John Keells Research
 y
Legal and Secretarial
 y
New Business Development
 y
Social Entrepreneurship
 y
Sustainability, Enterprise  
Risk Management and Group 
Initiatives
CENTRE FUNCTIONS
TRANSPORTATION
Transportation
Ports and Shipping
CONSUMER FOODS
Beverages
Frozen Confectionery
Convenience Foods
RETAIL
Supermarkets
Office Automation
LEISURE
Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts
Destination Management
Hotel Management
PROPERTY
Property Development
Real Estate
FINANCIAL SERVICES
Insurance
Banking
Stockbroking
OTHER, INCLUDING  INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY 
AND PLANTATION SERVICES
Information Technology
Plantation Services
Other

9
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
CHAIRMAN'S MESSAGE
Whilst the year under review was extremely 
challenging on account of the COVID-19 
pandemic, the Group witnessed a faster than 
anticipated recovery momentum with the 
performance of most businesses reaching pre 
COVID-19 levels where business activity and 
consumer trends were near normal by the end 
of the financial year. This positive momentum 
is reflected in the performance of the Group 
excluding Leisure, where recurring EBITDA 
demonstrated a growth of 8 per cent over the 
previous year despite the headwinds during 
the year, including an island-wide lockdown 
from April to mid-May 2020 and intermittent 
isolation measures during other periods. The 
Leisure business was significantly impacted 
given the closure of the airports in the Maldives 
and Sri Lanka until July 2020 and January 2021, 
respectively, although the resurgence of domestic 
tourism, food and beverage and banqueting 
revenue in Sri Lanka helped support the cash 
flows of the business while the Maldives witnessed 
a strong recovery from December 2020 onwards.  
The performance of the Group during the year 
was resilient despite the numerous challenges 
encountered and it was the positive attitude of all 
our people that enabled the Group to navigate 
through this unprecedented and volatile period.  
I wish to, once again, recognise their contribution, 
particularly those who served in our front lines 
and played a pivotal role in serving the people of 
our country in this very challenging time. Their 
commitment to proactively transition to new ways 
of working and embrace and support the Group 
in implementing a series of cost containment and 
productivity measures aided the Group to remain 
resilient and maintain its position of financial stability.
I am pleased to present the Integrated Annual 
Report and the Financial Statements for the 
financial year ended 31 March 2021.
I trust our Report will provide you with an in-depth understanding of the 
Group's value creation process and the strategies in place to manage the diverse 
portfolio of businesses towards driving sustainable growth, particularly in terms 
of navigating our businesses through these unprecedented circumstances due 
to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic.
Whilst the COVID-19 pandemic was relatively contained in Sri Lanka throughout the 
financial year, resulting in a strong resumption of business activity, the recent outbreak 
in late April 2021 has led to a sharp increase in the number of COVID-19 cases within the 
country, prompting island-wide travel restrictions by the Government as at the date of this 
Message. While it is premature to ascertain the full impact of this outbreak and the resultant 
performance of the Group since the number of daily cases is significantly higher than that of 
the first and second waves, the curtailing of movement is expected to cause a slowdown in 
business activity in the immediate-term while the pace of recovery will depend on how the 
situation develops over the next few weeks. Although the short-term will continue to pose 
challenges, a similar recovery to the traction observed in the second and fourth quarters of 
2020/21 can be expected once the stringent isolation and healthcare measures are eased.  
The Government has committed to scale up the roll out of vaccinations and this should 
positively impact recovery once a critical mass of the population, particularly in high-risk 
areas, are covered, as evident in other countries. The Group continues to reinforce and 
evaluate its safety protocols applicable to its employees and customers and has taken all 
possible measures to protect its supply chains in the current environment. 
RESILIENT IN INVESTING 
As stated over the previous few years, the Group has been on an investment heavy cycle, 
where significant capital has been deployed in our Group businesses which paves the way 
for transformative growth into the future. However, despite the unprecedented events over 
the last two years, which significantly impacted the performance of our portfolio, these 
investments have continued steadfastly, demonstrating the Group's 'resilience in investing'.
While the investments had short-term impacts on performance over the last couple of years 
on account of related expenses, disruptions and gestation periods, the longer-term benefits 
are now translating to significant performance impacts in the relevant businesses, some of 
which are not fully visible in the reported results due to the offsetting impacts on account of 
disruptions across two consecutive years.  
Capital expenditure in recent years include investments aimed at ensuring a completed 
and refurbished portfolio of Leisure properties, increasing the outlet footprint of the 
Supermarket business which has in the last three years doubled to over 120 outlets, 
enhancing the capacity and capability in the Frozen Confectionery and Insurance businesses, 
and consolidating our strategy in land banking enabling monetisation of lands to generate 
consistent returns, among others. The most significant of our investments, 'Cinnamon Life', is 
nearing completion with the revenue and profit recognition from the sale of the Residential 
and Office units commencing from the first quarter of 2021/22 onwards. 
Investments going forward will include the West Container Terminal in the Port of Colombo in 
partnership with the Adani Group in India. This investment will ensure continued long-term 
exposure to the ports business in the country which augers well for the future of the Group 
as well as provide a better balance for our portfolio. I believe that, despite the challenges of 
the current environment, the Group has laid a strong platform for growth and is now poised 
to fully benefit from the investments in building capacity, capability and process efficiency as 
these come to fruition in the ensuing year, and beyond.
The Group has been on an 
investment heavy cycle, 
where significant capital has 
been deployed in our Group 
businesses which paves the way 
for transformative growth into 
the future.

10   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
Recurring EBITDA* (Rs.'000)
2020/21
2019/20
Transportation
 3,610,416 
 4,375,024 
Consumer Foods
 3,317,535 
 3,365,940 
Retail
 5,522,678 
 5,107,784 
Leisure
 (3,588,464)
 2,305,839 
Property
 (17,348)
 640,676 
Financial Services
 3,644,923 
 2,988,190 
*EBITDA includes interest income and the share of results of equity accounted investees which is based on the share 
of profit after tax but excludes the impact of exchange losses and gains on its foreign currency denominated debt 
and cash, to demonstrate the underlying cash operational performance of the businesses.
CHAIRMAN'S MESSAGE
GROUP PERFORMANCE 2020/21
For the financial year 2020/21, Group 
revenue decreased by 8 per cent to 
Rs.127.68 billion while recurring Group 
earnings before interest expense, tax, 
depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) 
decreased by 22 per cent to Rs.15.57 billion. 
Excluding the Leisure industry group, Group 
revenue increased by 1 per cent to Rs.122.32 
billion while, encouragingly, Group recurring 
EBITDA increased by 8 per cent to Rs.19.16 
billion, displaying the positive recovery 
momentum of the businesses, where most 
have reached levels of near normalcy since 
December 2020 onwards. The decline 
in revenue is primarily due to a sharp 
reduction in oil prices throughout most of 
the year, impacting the Group's Bunkering 
business, Lanka Marine Services. 
The recurring Group profit before tax (PBT) 
decreased by 56 per cent to Rs.5.41 billion 
while the recurring profit attributable to equity 
holders of the parent decreased by 49 per cent 
to Rs.4.74 billion for the financial year ended 
31 March 2021. Excluding the Leisure industry 
group, recurring PBT increased by 1 per cent 
to Rs.13.95 billion while the recurring profit 
attributable to equity holders of the parent 
increased by 3 per cent to Rs.10.96 billion. 
In June 2020, JKH entered into a ten-year 
financing agreement with the International 
Finance Corporation (IFC) for USD 175 
million to support funding of the Company's 
investment pipeline, marking IFC's largest 
investment to date in Sri Lanka. The 
proceeds from the facility will primarily be 
utilised to fund the Group's expansion of its 
Supermarket business, recent investments 
in hotels in the Maldives and Sri Lanka and 
for general corporate investments. 
Although the entirety of the loan was 
drawn down during the year under review 
resulting in an increase in debt at the Holding 
Company, this did not impact net debt 
since the cash balance was also retained 
at a Holding Company level. The Holding 
Company maintained a strong net cash 
position of Rs.21.43 billion, which primarily 
consists of a foreign currency position. Group 
net debt excluding lease liabilities as at 31 
March 2021 was at Rs.48.71 billion. 
Summarised below are the key operational and financial highlights during the year under review.
 y
The Group witnessed a faster than anticipated recovery momentum with the performance 
of most businesses reaching pre COVID-19 levels with business activity and consumer trends 
being near normal by the end of the financial year. 
 y
Excluding Leisure, Group recurring EBITDA increased by 8 per cent to Rs.19.16 billion [2019/20: 
Rs.17.76 billion].
 y
Given the positive momentum of the performance of the businesses, notwithstanding the 
impacts of the current outbreak, a final dividend for 2020/21 of Rs.0.50 per share, was declared 
to be paid on or before 25 June 2021. Total dividend declared for 2020/21 amounts to Rs.2.00 
per share at a total payout of Rs.1.98 billion. The declaration of this dividend reflects the cash 
generation capability of the Group's diverse portfolio of businesses, despite the continued 
impacts on the Leisure business on the overall performance of the Group.
 y
A consortium consisting of Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone Limited (APSEZ) and JKH, 
in the capacity as the local partner, received a letter of intent (LOI) to develop and operate the 
West Container Terminal at the Port of Colombo as a public private partnership (PPP) project.
 y
The Supermarket business witnessed a sharp quarter-on-quarter recovery momentum in 
sales, with the fourth quarter same store sales recovering to pre COVID-19 levels. 
 y
The Consumer Foods business recorded a strong recovery during the year, particularly the 
performance of the Frozen Confectionery business. The Frozen Confectionery business 
recorded its highest monthly sales volume in the history of its operations in March 2021. 
 y
Whilst the opening of the airports is expected to help revive the tourism industry in Sri Lanka 
and the Maldives, the performance of the Leisure business will largely depend on the pace 
of revival of regional and global travel, when travellers regain confidence, particularly with 
the vaccination drives in many countries. The performance of the Maldivian Resorts and the 
momentum of forward bookings have been very encouraging. 
 y
With the completion of the residential and office towers at 'Cinnamon Life', the hand-over 
process of the units will commence, on a staggered basis, from the first quarter of 2021/22 
onwards, resulting in the recognition of revenue and profits from 'Cinnamon Life'. Project 
completion is scheduled for the first quarter of 2022/23.
 y
The Insurance business recorded double digit growth in gross written premiums during 
the year driven by an encouraging increase in regular new business premiums. The Banking 
business recorded an increase in profitability driven by focused recovery efforts, cost 
management initiatives and higher investment income.
 y
OCTAVE, the Group's Data and Advanced Analytics Centre of Excellence, worked on a series of 
use cases in the Retail and Financial Services industry groups, yielded promising results, with 
initial pilot projects indicating signs of significant value that can be unlocked from translating 
advanced analytics insights into front line business interventions.
 y
The Group instituted a Diversity, Equity and Inclusion programme towards increasing the 
diversity of our workforce and launched the 'ONE JKH' brand with several initiatives aimed 
at increasing critical diversity metrics across the Group. The Group established a goal of 
increasing the participation of women in the workforce up to 40 per cent by the end of 
2025/26, as a step towards achieving gender parity in the workforce.
 y
The Group reported a 7 per cent reduction in its carbon footprint per million rupees of 
revenue and a 3 per cent reduction in water withdrawn per million rupees of revenue. 
KEY OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS DURING THE YEAR
GROUP RECURRING EBITDA EXCL. LEISURE
Rs.19.16bn 
8%
2019/20: Rs.17.76 bn

11
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
The Group expects to 
commence construction of 
the WCT in early CY2022, 
subject to fulfilling criteria as 
stipulated in the LOI, with part 
of the terminal slated to be 
operational in approximately 
24 months, and the remainder 
within a maximum period of a 
further 24 months.
The Annual Report contains discussions on the macroeconomic factors and its impact on our 
businesses as well as a detailed discussion and analysis of each of the industry groups. As such, 
I will focus on a high-level summation of the performance of each industry group during the 
financial year 2020/21. 
TRANSPORTATION 
The Transportation industry group recurring EBITDA of Rs.3.61 billion in 2020/21 is a decrease of 
17 per cent over the recurring EBITDA of the previous financial year [2019/20: Rs.4.38 billion]. The 
decline in profitability is attributable to the Group's Ports business, South Asia Gateway Terminals 
(SAGT), and to a lesser extent the Group's Bunkering business, Lanka Marine Services (LMS). 
In line with the trend of overall volumes in the Port of Colombo (POC), throughput at SAGT was 
impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, recording a 12 per cent decrease in the year under review 
although this impact was primarily during the first quarter of 2020/21 when the pandemic 
escalated in Sri Lanka and the region. However, the rate of recovery in volumes was encouraging, 
reaching pre COVID-19 levels as transshipment volumes from India and the region gained 
momentum as shipping lines demonstrated a preference to call at 'hub' ports and move away 
from direct services, demonstrating the urgent need and opportunity for deep water capacity 
enhancement in the POC. Profitability was further impacted by a change in the throughput mix on 
account of the continuing import restrictions in place in the country. SAGT also became liable for 
income tax from September 2019 onwards. 
Addressing the long overdue need for capacity enhancement in the POC, the Government decided 
to proceed with the development of the East Container Terminal (ECT) and the West Container 
Terminal (WCT), during the year under review. The development of the ECT will be implemented 
by the Sri Lanka Ports Authority while a consortium consisting of Adani Ports and Special Economic 
Zone Limited (APSEZ) and JKH, in the capacity as the local partner, executed a letter of intent (LOI) 
to develop and operate the WCT as a public private partnership (PPP) project. The WCT project will 
be constructed on a build, operate and transfer (BOT) basis for a lease period of 35 years. 
The WCT, a part of Colombo's South Port development, encompasses a deep-water terminal 
with an alongside depth of 20 metres and annual capacity of approximately 3 million TEUs. The 
Group expects to commence construction of the WCT in early CY2022, subject to fulfilling criteria 
as stipulated in the LOI, with part of the terminal slated to be operational in approximately 24 
months, and the remainder within a maximum period of a further 24 months. The Group will have 
a material equity stake in the project and the expected investment is approximately USD 70-80 
million, staggered over the project construction period, subject to finalisation of project costs and 
other structuring arrangements, including the proportion of leverage. 
The year-on-year comparison of the performance of the Bunkering businesses is distorted as 
2019/20 included above-average profitability, particularly in the third quarter, on account of the 
transition, well ahead of competition, to low sulphur fuel oil under the International Maritime 
Organisation regulations. Although overall bunker market volumes continued to gradually improve 
during the year to pre COVID-19 levels, the business continues to be impacted by a reduction in 
demand for bunker fuel on the back of the pandemic, which resulted in a contraction in overall 
market volumes and exerted pressure on margins. Despite the environment, the Bunkering 
business was able to significantly improve market share.
Given the ongoing COVID-19 crisis in India, there are short-term disruptions to demand as several 
ports globally, including Singapore, have barred the entry of vessels which have called at South 
Asian ports, including Sri Lanka. While it is premature to assess the impact of these developments, 
market expectations are that it will be short-term and that trade volumes will remain resilient.  
Most employees in the Ports business are already fully vaccinated, given the prioritisation of the 
Ports industry by the Government as an essential service, and therefore it is less likely that there will 
be a serious outbreak of cases disrupting operations at the POC.  
During the year under review, the Logistics business recorded an improvement in profitability 
driven by an increase in throughput in its warehouse facilities. 
RECURRING EBITDA
Rs.3.61bn 
17%
Transportation industry group
CONSUMER FOODS 
The Consumer Foods industry group 
recurring EBITDA of Rs.3.32 billion in 2020/21 
is a marginal decrease of 1 per cent over the 
recurring EBITDA of the previous financial 
year [2019/20: Rs.3.37 billion]. Excluding the 
significant impacts to the businesses in the 
first quarter of the year, the recurring EBITDA 
for the nine months ending March 2021 
increased by 10 per cent to Rs.2.83 billion 
[2019/20: Rs.2.57 billion]. 
Despite the challenging operating 
environment and the unprecedented 
distribution disruptions, the Frozen 
Confectionery (FC), Beverage and 
Convenience Foods businesses demonstrated 
an encouraging performance with volumes 
displaying a faster than expected recovery 
trend with the easing of isolation measures, 
particularly in the FC business, when activity 
in the country returned to more normal levels. 
The investment in distribution penetration 
and the expansion of the portfolio of the FC 
business over the last few years enabled a 
strong recovery momentum and performance, 
as the business recorded its highest monthly 
sales volume in March 2021 in its history 
of operations. Whilst the Beverage and FC 
businesses recorded volume declines of 16 per 
cent and 1 per cent, respectively, in the year 
under review, the Beverage business volumes 
decreased marginally by 1 per cent and FC 
volumes increased by 30 per cent for the 
fourth quarter, although it should be noted 
that March 2020 volumes were disrupted with 
the onset of the pandemic in the country.  

12   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
The impact of lower volumes during the year 
was offset, to an extent, through selective 
price increases across SKUs in both businesses 
whilst a better mix in the FC business aided 
the strong growth in profitability. In line with 
evolving consumer trends and lifestyles, 
the FC business expanded its portfolio with 
the introduction of a few products under 
its premium range, which have been well 
accepted, and helped to grow this niche and 
consolidate its brand position further. 
The Convenience Foods business recorded 
a growth in profitability, despite a decline in 
volume, driven by an improvement in the sales 
and channel mix. 
RETAIL
The Retail industry group recurring EBITDA of Rs.5.52 billion in 2020/21 is an increase of 8 per cent 
over the recurring EBITDA of the previous financial year [2019/20: Rs.5.11 billion].
The Supermarket business recurring EBITDA of Rs.4.14 billion in 2020/21 is a marginal decrease 
of 3 per cent against the previous financial year [2019/20: Rs.4.27 billion], primarily due to 
the first quarter of 2020/21 where the complete lockdown measures resulted in a significant 
impact on performance given the fixed cost base of the operations. Excluding this impact, the 
nine-month recurring EBITDA ending 31 March 2021 is an increase of 14 per cent compared 
to the corresponding period of the previous year, although it should be noted that business 
was significantly disrupted towards the last two weeks of March 2020 due to the onset of the 
pandemic in the country.  
With the gradual easing of measures and opening of outlets, the business witnessed a sharp 
quarter-on-quarter recovery momentum in sales, with the fourth quarter same store sales recovering 
to pre COVID-19 levels, although the March 2020 comparative is distorted due to the closure of 
outlets towards the end of the month. A significant growth was witnessed in online sales due to the 
isolation measures which were in place intermittently during the year. Considering that shopping 
patterns of customers have changed, where the frequency and purchase patterns have resulted in a 
consolidation of baskets, the statistics on footfall and basket values are distorted in the short-term.  
Fifteen new outlets were opened during the year, increasing the total outlet footprint to 123 
as at 31 March 2021. While the business will continue to expand its outlet network considering 
the underlying growth prospects for the industry, it has also ramped up its capability, offering 
and customer experience on its e-commerce platform. In July, the business revamped its online 
platform, enabling a more diverse offering and real-time stock availability, amongst other features, 
to enable a faster and better shopping experience. The business will continue to focus on an omni-
channel strategy to cater to different customer segments and needs. 
The current outbreak of COVID-19 cases in the country may create disruptions and hamper 
momentum in the short-term, particularly given the travel restriction measures imposed to curtail 
the movement of people. However, the impact on performance is expected to be less pronounced 
than witnessed when the previous isolation measures were in place given that the business is 
better equipped to navigate these challenges in contrast to the previous outbreaks in CY2020. The 
business prioritises the health and safety of its employees, customers and stakeholders, and has 
taken all health and safety measures possible. In keeping with our values, the business has been 
transparent and timely with its communication to customers and the public in the event operation 
of outlets are disrupted due to positive COVID-19 cases. 
The ongoing construction of the distribution centre in Kerawalapitiya, which is scheduled for 
completion in the third quarter of FY2022, will augment the business, given its ability to cater to its 
outlet expansion well beyond the medium to long-term and translate into significant process and 
operational efficiencies, particularly given the centralisation of almost the entirety of the dry and 
fresh range. 
I am pleased to state that the 'Keells' modern trade brand which was developed with the aim of 
epitomising the 'fresh' promise, service excellence and quality was adjudged as the most valuable 
supermarket brand for the second consecutive year in 2020 by Brand Finance. Further, the brand 
was listed amongst the top 10 most visible brands on the internet in Sri Lanka by the Asia Pacific 
Institute of Digital Marketing and was shortlisted for the World Retail Awards under the best brand 
transformation category.
As a part of the Group's advanced analytics transformation journey, the business commenced the 
roll out of select use cases towards the latter end of the year under review, aimed at addressing 
areas such as promotion effectiveness, range optimisation, and marketing outreach. Whilst some 
of the piloting and roll out of identified use cases were postponed until such time business and 
consumer behaviour returned to a level of normalcy given COVID-19 considerations, preliminary 
results of these projects are promising and bode well for the business in the medium-term. 
The Office Automation business recorded a strong performance with double-digit growth in EBITDA 
on account of a 25 per cent volume growth in the mobile segment, maximising on market opportunity. 
RECURRING EBITDA
Rs.5.52bn 
8%
Retail industry group
With the gradual easing of 
measures and opening of 
outlets, the business witnessed 
a sharp quarter-on-quarter 
recovery momentum in sales, 
with the fourth quarter same 
store sales recovering to pre 
COVID-19 levels.
CHAIRMAN'S MESSAGE
The Frozen Confectionery (FC), 
Beverage and Convenience 
Foods businesses demonstrated 
an encouraging performance 
with volumes displaying a 
faster than expected recovery 
trend with the easing of 
isolation measures, particularly 
in the FC business, when 
activity in the country returned 
to more normal levels.
RECURRING EBITDA
Rs.3.32bn 
1%
Consumer Foods industry group

13
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
LEISURE 
The Leisure industry group recurring EBITDA of negative Rs.3.59 billion in 2020/21 is a significant 
decrease against the recurring EBITDA of the previous financial year [2019/20: Rs.2.31 billion] 
due to the continued impact of COVID-19 on tourism. The performance of the Resorts started 
to demonstrate an encouraging uptick with the revival of domestic tourism and the opening of 
the airports in Sri Lanka and the Maldives. However, the current outbreak of COVID-19 cases in Sri 
Lanka may impede the local recovery should the current situation prevail, particularly given the 
travel advisories from source markets and the imposition of island-wide travel restrictions by the 
Government. 
During the first quarter of the year under review, Sri Lanka and the Maldives witnessed the imposition 
of stringent measures to control the transmission of COVID-19, and, as a result, closed its airports for 
arrivals and restricted domestic travel. Due to the restrictions in movement, the Group suspended 
operations of its hotel properties in Sri Lanka and the Maldives during the months of April and May, 
thereby saving on overheads and other expenses. 
The Sri Lankan Resort Hotels and the Colombo Hotels opened to the public from June 2020 
onwards, under stringent safety guidelines issued by the Government post the easing of the 
lockdown. With the resumption of domestic travel, all properties in the Sri Lankan Resorts segment 
recorded an encouraging increase in occupancy. Despite the challenging operating environment, 
the Colombo Hotels segment also exhibited a better than anticipated performance, primarily 
driven by the food and beverage and banqueting segments. 
The airports in Sri Lanka were re-opened to tourists in January 2021, under stringent guidelines 
and safety protocols of the health authorities. 'Cinnamon Bentota Beach' and 'Cinnamon Bey 
Beruwala' were opened to tourists and operated under these guidelines and protocols until the 
recent outbreak.  
Given the slowdown in domestic tourism due to the current outbreak of COVID-19 cases, three 
Sri Lankan hotel properties are being used as intermediate care centres (ICC) for the treatment 
of asymptomatic patients. In addition to meeting the critical national need to provide facilities 
to treat COVID-19 persons, this will help mitigate the impact of a drop in domestic tourism. The 
operations of the other properties have been restricted during this current outbreak to manage 
and mitigate costs. We will continue to review the trends of both international and domestic 
travel and expand our current operations accordingly. We remain confident that operations 
will revert to normal over the next few months given the aggressive ramp up of the COVID-19 
vaccination programme in the country. Our properties are well prepared and geared to take the 
fullest advantage of the pent-up demand for leisure travel from the various markets, similar to the 
recovery trends in arrivals witnessed in the Maldives.  
Post the opening of the Malé airport in July 2020, arrivals were initially slow to gather momentum. 
The subsequent relaxation of global travel restrictions, particularly in key source markets, 
contributed to a rebound in performance of the Maldivian Resorts segment, resulting in an 
encouraging recovery in occupancy from December 2020 onwards. The segment also witnessed 
an increase in the average duration of stay in comparison to CY2019. It is encouraging to witness 
the momentum of forward bookings in the Maldives, demonstrating a significant 'pent up' 
demand for leisure travel. Based on current indications and trends, we expect a full revival of 
tourism to the Maldives by the end of this year. 
PROPERTY 
The Property industry group recurring EBITDA 
of a negative Rs.17 million in 2020/21 is a 
decrease against the recurring EBITDA of 
the previous financial year [2019/20: Rs.641 
million]. The decrease in profitability is 
mainly attributable to the fair value loss on 
investment property (IP) during the year under 
review compared to a fair value gain in the 
previous year. EBITDA excluding fair value 
gains/losses on IP amounted to Rs.274 million, 
an increase of 48 per cent over the previous 
year [2019/20: Rs.186 million]. 
Excluding fair value gains/losses, the EBITDA 
was positively impacted mainly due to the 
commencement of revenue recognition from 
the 'Tri-Zen' residential development project. 
However, profitability was impacted by the mall 
operations given the lower rentals and rent 
relief offered to tenants due to the pandemic. In 
order to repurpose and reposition the 'Crescat' 
mall in line with market dynamics, the property 
was closed for refurbishment on 31 December 
2020. The revamped property is expected to be 
re-launched and operational in the second half 
of CY2021.
I am pleased to state that we have reached 
completion of the residential and office towers 
of 'Cinnamon Life'. The residential apartment 
and office towers are expected to be handed 
over, on a staggered basis, from the first 
quarter of 2021/22 onwards and will result in 
the commencement of recognition of revenue 
and profits from 'Cinnamon Life', a significant 
milestone considering the long gestation 
period of the project. 
Given the continued challenges in labour 
mobilisation, the loss in productivity and time 
lost due to the period of lockdown and the 
enhanced health and safety measures, the 
available resources have been mainly focused 
on the completion of the residences and the 
office towers. Accordingly, completion of 
the hotel and the retail mall was impacted 
and is now scheduled for the first quarter of 
2022/23. In line with the revised timelines 
for completion, finishing work including 
structural work, cladding, installation of the 
façade, glazing, and interior designing of hotel 
rooms is currently underway. The Group has 
commenced discussions with key tenants for 
the retail mall, with various alternatives being 
considered for the retail space to ensure unique 
attractions and offerings. The Group is also in 
the final stages of negotiations with prospective 
tenants for the office space at 'Cinnamon Life'.
It is encouraging to witness the momentum of forward 
bookings in the Maldives, demonstrating a significant 'pent 
up' demand for leisure travel. Based on current indications and 
trends, we expect a full revival of tourism to the Maldives by 
the end of this year.

14   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
Construction of 'Tri-Zen' has continued to 
progress steadily during the year with the 
structure of the building envisaged to be 
completed in the first half of CY2022 whilst the 
overall project is scheduled for completion in 
CY2023.
The sales momentum for the residential 
apartments at 'Cinnamon Life' has been 
relatively slow, in line with the trends seen in 
the premium segment in the city. However, 
with the commissioning of the towers and 
the rest of the complex nearing completion, 
we have seen an upsurge in interest. Sales 
at 'Tri-Zen' has been encouraging, reaching 
pre COVID-19 levels, with sales in March 
2021 recording the highest number of units 
since inception of the project. The funding of 
'Cinnamon Life' continues to be in place, given 
the unutilised component of the committed 
syndicated loan facility and availability of 
foreign currency funds which is earmarked for 
the project and held at the Holding Company.
During the year under review, the Group 
increased its existing stake of 60 per cent in 
Vauxhall Land Developments (Private) Limited 
(VLDL), an entity which owns a prime plot of 
land on Vauxhall Street, Colombo, by acquiring 
a further 26.7 per cent equity stake from Finlays 
Colombo Limited (FCL) for a consideration 
of Rs.5.98 billion. The Group has committed 
to acquiring the balance 13.3 per cent equity 
stake from FCL for Rs.2.99 billion on or before 
24 September 2021, post which VLDL would 
become a fully owned subsidiary of the Group. 
The contiguous 9.38-acre property is one of 
the largest privately held land extents in central 
Colombo and is within a proposed zoning area 
identified under the Beira Lake Development 
Plan of the Urban Development Authority 
(UDA). This property is a part of the Group's 
land banking strategy, where strategic land 
parcels were identified in order to capitalise 
on opportunities arising in the real estate 
and property development industry. With the 
acquisition of VLDL, the Group is of the view that 
the existing land bank is adequate to sustain a 
steady pipeline of projects in the long-term.
FINANCIAL SERVICES 
The Financial Services industry group recurring 
EBITDA of Rs.3.64 billion in 2020/21 is an 
increase of 22 per cent over the recurring 
EBITDA of the previous financial year [2019/20: 
Rs.2.99 billion].
Union Assurance PLC recorded double digit 
growth in gross written premiums (GWP) 
during the year, continuing the recovery 
momentum witnessed from the second 
quarter onwards. The increase in GWP growth 
was driven by regular new business premiums. 
However, the profit of the business was 
impacted by a higher tax expense in 2020/21 
as a result of an expiry of claimable periods 
and an impairment on notional tax credits of 
the business.
Whilst revenue at NTB was impacted by the 
slowdown in demand for credit, the sharp 
reduction in interest rates and the impact 
of the moratorium loan portfolio, the Bank 
recorded an increase in profits driven by 
focused recovery efforts, cost management 
strategies and higher investment income. 
The Bank also benefited from the removal 
of the debt repayment levy, which was in 
place in the previous year. While impairment 
increased during the year, a concerted effort 
on collections and recoveries together with 
a focus on return-based credit growth has 
ensured that the performance of the Bank has 
seen positive momentum.
John Keells Stock Brokers recorded an 
encouraging performance on the back of a 
strong recovery in activity in the Colombo Stock 
Exchange towards the latter part of the year. 
OTHER, INCLUDING INFORMATION 
TECHNOLOGY AND PLANTATION 
SERVICES
The Information Technology sector recurring 
EBITDA of Rs.363 million in 2020/21 is an 
increase of 6 per cent over the recurring 
EBITDA of the previous financial year [2019/20: 
Rs.343 million]. The improved performance 
is on account of onboarding new clients and 
expanding the scope of services.  
The Plantation Services sector recurring 
EBITDA of Rs.356 million in 2020/21 is a 
significant increase over the recurring EBITDA 
of the previous financial year [2019/20: Rs.20 
million]. This improvement in profitability was 
aided by an increase in both tea prices and 
volumes. The performance of the previous year 
included a material impairment of debtors 
at John Keells PLC considering the stresses 
faced, at the time, by tea producers due to 
low tea prices and curtailing of manufacturing 
operations.  
Other, comprising of the Holding Company 
and other investments, the Information 
Technology and Plantation Services sectors, 
together, recorded a recurring EBITDA of 
Rs.3.08 billion in 2020/21, which is a significant 
increase over the recurring EBITDA of the 
previous financial year [2019/20: Rs.1.29 
billion]. The increase in profitability is mainly 
attributable to the increase in interest 
income on account of higher cash and cash 
equivalents at the Holding Company due to 
the drawdown of the IFC loan as stated before, 
although the impact to PBT was negligible 
due to a corresponding increase in interest 
expense stemming from the borrowing. 
The PBT of the Holding Company was also 
positively impacted by a foreign currency 
exchange gain on its net USD denominated 
cash holdings, on account of a depreciation 
of the USD/LKR exchange rate against the 
previous year. 
RECURRING EBITDA
Rs.3.64bn 
RECURRING EBITDA
Rs.3.08bn 
22%
140%
Financial Services industry group
Other, incl. Information Technology 
and Plantation Services industry group
The residential apartment and 
office towers are expected to 
be handed over, on a staggered 
basis, from the first quarter 
of 2021/22 onwards and will 
result in the commencement 
of recognition of revenue and 
profits from 'Cinnamon Life'.
While impairment increased 
during the year, a concerted 
effort on collections and 
recoveries together with a 
focus on return-based credit 
growth has ensured that the 
performance of the Bank has 
seen positive momentum.
CHAIRMAN'S MESSAGE

15
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
ADVANCED ANALYTICS 
During the year under review, the Group's Data 
and Advanced Analytics Centre of Excellence, 
OCTAVE, worked on a series of use cases in 
the Retail and Financial Services industry 
groups, yielding promising results, with initial 
pilot projects indicating signs of significant 
value that can be unlocked from translating 
advanced analytics insights into front line 
business interventions. However, challenges on 
the back of the COVID-19 pandemic compelled 
the Group to review the timing of the roll out 
of several of these identified use cases until 
such time business operations returned to a 
level of normalcy, where the impact could be 
meaningfully assessed. 
With business activity rebounding towards the 
fourth quarter of the year under review, OCTAVE 
continued to develop, pilot and roll out a series 
of use cases within these industry groups. 
Although it is premature to fully assess the 
impact of these interventions, I am pleased to 
state that the preliminary results are extremely 
encouraging where the anticipated benefits are 
incorporated into future budget plans as well. 
Continuing this momentum, OCTAVE also 
commenced work on use cases in the 
Beverages business of the Consumer Foods 
industry group and is expected to extend its 
efforts to the Frozen Confectionery business in 
the ensuing year. Data governance practices 
which were institutionalised across the 
Supermarket and Insurance businesses were 
extended to the Consumer Foods industry 
group during the year, with defined roles being 
staffed by trained resources and milestones set 
for governing data domains of the businesses. 
Progress made during the year displayed 
that meaningful value can be unlocked by 
leveraging the large volume and rich variety of 
data across the Group in delivering advanced 
analytics solutions to traditional business 
challenges. Further the growth in capability 
of the team at OCTAVE has helped set the 
foundations of a sound advanced analytics 
practice in the Group.
EMPLOYEES
The value creation process of the Group has been built around our loyal and committed 
employees, and I wish to acknowledge, with gratitude, the contribution and commitment of our 
employees during a year which witnessed many unprecedented challenges. 
I wish to sincerely thank the many who are serving in our frontlines. It is truly heartening to see 
the positive attitude and commitment of our people, where numerous teams have ensured the 
smooth continuation of operations. 
Over the years, we have attracted the best talent towards building a strong team that reflects the 
diversity of the customers we serve. We continue to engage and encourage our employees to 
perform to the best of their abilities through a performance-oriented culture founded on ethical 
and transparent behaviour which, in turn, promotes sustainable and profitable growth. Our people 
have been the hallmark of success of the John Keells Group, and, I believe, will continue to be a key 
differentiator going forward as well as we continue to launch initiatives to make a meaningful and 
positive difference to our people as explained below. 
The Corporate Governance Commentary and the Capital Management Review sections of this 
Report explain in further detail the best practices, policies and procedures that are in place to 
ensure that John Keells is 'More Than Just a Work Place'.
ONE JKH and Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Initiative 
During the year under review, the Group joined the UN Global Compact's 'Target Gender Equality' 
programme which focuses on increasing women's representation and leadership in business, not 
only in the workplace but also in our value-chain and community. The Group also instituted a 
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DE&I) programme towards increasing the diversity of our workforce 
and making our workplaces more inclusive and launched the 'ONE JKH' brand in September 
2020 to consolidate its efforts to increase the diversity metrics across the organisation. Some key 
initiatives in DE&I include employer supported childcare, increasing women in non-traditional 
roles, women centric training and launching of the Group Policy. The Group established a goal of 
increasing women in the workforce up to 40 per cent by the end of 2025/26, as a step towards 
achieving gender parity in the workforce.
GOVERNANCE
I am pleased to state that there were no departures from any of the provisions of the Code 
of Business Conduct and Ethics of the Code of Best Practice of Corporate Governance, jointly 
advocated by the Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka and the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of Sri Lanka. I also wish to affirm our commitment to upholding Group policies, where 
emphasis is placed on ethical and legal dealings, zero tolerance for corruption, bribery and any 
form of harassment or discrimination in our workplace and any work-related situations.
During the year under review, several initiatives were undertaken to further strengthen the Group's 
governance framework and controls. Given the continuation of 'work from home' arrangements 
at most businesses, the Group augmented data classification and management while migrating 
applications to the cloud and adopting digital platforms. The Group also introduced an improved 
and augmented Agile Working Policy to facilitate the current working arrangements with greater 
clarity, ensuring a higher degree of employee involvement and flexibility in work arrangements, 
which will help increase retention and motivation of existing employees while expanding the 
talent pool and enabling greater participation of women in the workforce. In December, the 
Group appointed a new Ombudsperson who is an attorney-at-law by profession, maintaining the 
independence of the Group's whistle-blower channels.
Further details on governance compliance and initiatives and can be found in the Corporate 
Governance Commentary of this Report.
Progress made during the year 
displayed that meaningful 
value can be unlocked by 
leveraging the large volume 
and rich variety of data across 
the Group in delivering 
advanced analytics solutions to 
traditional business challenges.

16   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
Integrated Reporting
This Report has been prepared in 
conformance with the Integrated Reporting 
Framework of the International Integrated 
Reporting Council. The Board of Directors and 
the Group Executive Committee is responsible 
for ensuring the accuracy and integrity of 
this Annual Report. We confirm, to the best 
of our knowledge, the credibility, reliability 
and integrity of the information presented, 
and, in this regard, external assurance has also 
been sought from independent auditors, as 
applicable.
SUSTAINABILITY
This Report discloses the Group's sustainability 
performance in accordance with the GRI 
Standards: Core option of reporting and 
details its integrated approach to sustainable 
operating practices, its management 
framework and its overall sustainability 
performance over the reporting year.
Despite the challenges of operating within 
the COVID-19 related restrictions and impacts, 
the Group's well entrenched sustainability 
management framework continued to ensure 
that sustainability considerations remained 
an integral part of all business operations. 
This framework guides the Group to integrate 
financial performance alongside efficient 
Natural Capital management, through 
practices such as conservation of natural 
resources, emissions management and 
responsible waste disposal, while investing in 
its Human Capital resources, through training 
and development of its diverse employee base 
and maintaining a safe working environment. 
This enables the Group to reach beyond its 
own boundary to build upon its considerable 
social and relationship capital, through 
ensuring the highest standards of product 
stewardship, conducting operations with 
the highest levels of ethical standards and 
supporting its supply chain partners to better 
their own sustainability performances.
The Group maintained a steady performance with respect to key sustainability indicators, despite 
the unprecedented circumstances. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, emissions and resource 
usage were affected due to lower levels of activity in the businesses. Against this backdrop, in 
absolute terms, the Group reported a 15 per cent reduction in its carbon footprint to 82,009 
MT and a 7 per cent reduction in its carbon footprint per million rupees of revenue. In absolute 
terms, the Group's water withdrawal reduced by 12 per cent to 1,677,672 cubic meters and water 
withdrawn per million rupees of revenue decreased by 3 per cent. Waste generation reduced by 
13 per cent to 6,763 MT. 83 incidences of occupational injuries were recorded during the year. 
In addition, this year, with the implementation of the Group's Agile Working Policy, the online 
Learning Management System was utilised to facilitate and encourage remote learning, to ensure 
that training and development needs of its employees continued to be met, with an average of 23 
hours of training provided per person. 
I am pleased to note that the Group's commitment to a steady improvement in its sustainability 
performance has led towards embarking on a new goal setting process, building on the initial set 
of Group Sustainability Goals concluded in the previous year. This year, goals were established at 
company or sector level to drive focus and accountability amongst key businesses with material 
sustainability impacts. This has meant further consolidation of reduction targets in terms of energy 
and water, as well as incorporating new and emerging areas of priority such as renewable energy 
and plastic reduction.
Plasticcycle
The Group's social entrepreneurship initiative, 'Plasticcycle', has established a network of over 
250 dedicated collection bins to date and collected over 71,000 kgs of post consumption plastic 
for recycling. While on-ground activities continue to take place where possible, adhering to 
health and safety guidelines, 'Plasticcycle' had shifted its focus to raising community awareness 
and participation, digitally. As a catalyst in significantly reducing plastic pollution in Sri Lanka, 
'Plasticcycle' entered into a pivotal partnership with Hemas Manufacturing (Private) Limited to 
further expand its collection network within the Colombo district. A dedicated plastic waste 
collection and sorting centre is being developed through the joint commitment of 'Plasticcycle', 
Ceylon Cold Stores and 'Zerotrash'.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 
Notwithstanding the challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic throughout the year, the John 
Keells Group remains committed to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), which is an integral 
part of the Group's business ethos within its triple bottom line approach while staff volunteerism 
is a key component enabling our staff to enrich their personal experiences through community 
engagement and service. Our CSR activities continue to be on six focus areas, namely, Education, 
Health, Environment, Livelihood Development, Arts & Culture and Disaster Relief. All projects 
undertaken are inspired and sustained by our CSR vision of 'Empowering the Nation for Tomorrow'. 
The CSR initiatives of the Group are centrally planned and implemented by John Keells Foundation 
(JKF) - a company limited by guarantee which is also registered as a 'Voluntary Social Service 
Organisation' - with the strategic direction of the Group Executive Committee and implementation 
and synergistic support of the Group businesses. 
John Keells Holdings is a participant of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). The Group's 
development activities are aligned to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and national 
priorities, ensuring a collective and targeted focus towards addressing key universal needs for the 
holistic development of people, focusing on the three dimensions of sustainable development - 
economic growth, social inclusion and environmental protection. 
Whilst JKF together with the Group businesses continued to provide COVID-19 aid to frontline 
services and affected communities, its CSR plans were reviewed and restructured for practical 
implementation within applicable protocols and restrictions and to meet the new requirements 
arising from the pandemic. 
Details are available under the Capital Management Review and Industry Group Review sections of 
this Report, while some of the highlights of JKF's work during the year are as follows. 
The Group reported a 7 per 
cent reduction in its carbon 
footprint per million 
rupees of revenue and a  
3 per cent reduction in 
water withdrawn per 
million rupees of revenue.
CHAIRMAN'S MESSAGE

17
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
Disaster Relief 
JKF's key initiatives to support ongoing efforts 
to combat COVID-19 in collaboration with 
Group businesses: 
 y
Donation of Personal Protection Equipment 
(PPE) to five Government hospitals. 
 y
Provision of handwashing units to six 
schools to support recommencement 
post-lockdown. 
 y
Donation of PPE and hand sanitisers to the 
Colombo District Secretariat office.
 y
Distribution of essential food items among 
disadvantaged communities. 
Village Adoption
 y
The 7-year integrated development 
programme in the villages of Iranaipalai 
and Puthumathalan in Mullaitivu under the 
Village Adoption Project was concluded 
in August 2020 with the completion and 
public vesting of the anicut constructed to 
support farm irrigation. 
 y
Activities comprising fisher and farmer 
livelihood support, skills development, 
livelihood and school infrastructure, 
gender and youth empowerment were 
implemented with an investment of over 
Rs.45 Million, benefitting 2,035 persons 
during project tenure. 
John Keells 'Praja Shakthi'
JKF organised several livelihood initiatives 
(including women's entrepreneurship 
development): 
 y
Hikkaduwa - upskilling of a group 
of women engaged in batik craft in 
collaboration with the Academy of 
Design, 'Hikka Tranz by Cinnamon' and 
the Divisional Secretariat of Hikkaduwa 
comprising training, business plan 
development and a production of an 
upmarket product range under the 
brand 'Hikka Batiks' which was tested at a 
successful pilot sale in Colombo.
Our CSR activities continue to 
be on six focus areas, namely, 
Education, Health, Environment, 
Livelihood Development, Arts 
& Culture and Disaster Relief. 
All projects undertaken are 
inspired and sustained by our 
CSR vision of 'Empowering the 
Nation for Tomorrow'. 
 y
Ranala - a two-month training conducted in collaboration with CCS and the Divisional 
Secretariat of Kaduwela for women engaged in producing paper products towards upskilling 
them and facilitating market access followed by a grant of seed capital. JKF, with CCS, also 
renovated a clay mixing machine which is expected to support families of the pottery 
community. 
 y
Colombo 2 - with the objective of providing women and men sustainable livelihood 
opportunities in pursuing food-based enterprises, JKF commenced a programme with 
the support of Public Health Inspectors of the Colombo Municipal Council and chefs from 
the 'Cinnamon' Hotels to increase food safety, health and hygiene standards. JKF is also in 
discussion with the International Finance Corporation and the Urban Development Authority 
to collaborate on a tourist centric sustainable street market operation in the next financial year.
Career Skills for University Undergraduates and School Leavers
 y
JKF piloted its first Soft Skills webinar aimed at enhancing employability of undergraduates. 388 
students participated in the 3 workshops that took place over the course of three weeks. 
Project WAVE (Working Against Violence through Education) 
The following key initiatives were conducted towards addressing gender-based violence (GBV) 
and child abuse:
 y
Launch of an e-learning platform in English, Sinhala and Tamil languages for Group staff on 
preventing and addressing gender-based violence, sexual harassment and child abuse under 
Project WAVE.
 y
Staff awareness sessions for a total of 251 Group staff. 
 y
A public awareness campaign against sexual harassment coinciding with the International Day 
for the Elimination of Violence Against Women conducted for the fifth successive year under 
the theme 'Break the Silence to End the Violence' comprising a panel discussion featuring 
subject experts aired on a premier television channel during prime time and a two-week public 
awareness campaign through social media and digital screens with a reach of over 991,000 
persons. 
 y
A poster cum social media campaign was launched on child protection to commemorate 
National Children's Day in October 2020 covering 11 schools in the John Keells Praja Shakthi 
locations as well as 114 'Keells' outlets and 10 'Cinnamon' hotels. It was also published in English, 
Sinhala and Tamil via the JKF Facebook page with a reach of over 41,000 Facebook users.
Substance Abuse Prevention Awareness
 y
JKF launched its Substance Abuse Prevention Awareness project, piloting both capacity 
building workshops for teacher counsellors in the Colombo district in collaboration with the 
National Dangerous Drugs Control Board (NDDCB) as well as awareness for pre-school teachers, 
parents and Government officials in Hikkaduwa in collaboration with Humedica Lanka and 
'Hikka Tranz by Cinnamon', benefitting 216 persons. 
The John Keells Vision Project  
 y
11 cataract patients underwent surgeries whilst the School Screening Programme in the 
Colombo District, a collaboration with the Ministry of Health, was conducted in 15 schools, 
testing 81 school children and donating 239 spectacles. This long-term collaboration with the 
Ministry of Health came to a close during this reporting period. 
English Language Scholarship Programme
 y
JKF continued to offer scholarships to improve English proficiency of deserving school children 
under its long-term programme 'English for Teens'. 169 high-performing students from the 
19/20 programme were offered scholarships under the Tier 2 scheme which also includes soft 
skills development. 150 students completed the programme through online or physical classes.  

18   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
Kala Pola 
 y
Due to COVID-19 related restrictions, the 28th edition of Kala Pola was hosted as a month-long 
virtual event for the first time, showcasing over 4,000 works by 202 artists and attracting 56,400 
visitors with encouraging sales. The event also presented four interactive features targeting 
collectors, children, artists and the general public.
 y
The online event was followed by a pilot pop-up sale, held within COVID-19 protocols, featuring 
25 senior Kala Pola artists. 
Our Volunteers 
 y
Staff volunteers from the Group provided field, online and administrative support in various 
CSR projects customised in the reporting year to meet challenges pursuant to the pandemic, 
recording a total of over 900 hours by 226 volunteers across the John Keells Group. This number 
excludes staff volunteer activities in CSR at the business or sector level.
DIVIDENDS
The Company paid three interim dividends of Rs.0.50 per share, each, in August and December 
2020, and March 2021, respectively. Your Board declared a final dividend for 2020/21 of Rs.0.50 
per share to be paid on or before 25 June 2021, resulting in a total dividend declared of Rs.2.00 
per share for 2020/21. The declaration of this dividend reflects the positive momentum of the 
performance of the businesses in the fourth quarter of 2020/21, notwithstanding the impacts 
of the current outbreak and the cash generation capability of the Group's diverse portfolio of 
businesses, despite the continued impacts on the Leisure business on the overall performance of 
the Group. 
The Group will follow its dividend policy which corresponds with growth in profits, whilst ensuring 
that the Company maintains adequate funds to ensure business continuity, particularly given the 
prevailing challenging circumstances, and fund its pipeline of strategic investments such as the 
WCT project.
CONCLUSION 
The recent outbreak of COVID-19 cases in Sri Lanka has resulted in short-term uncertainty, 
although the business impact, at this juncture, for most Group businesses, excluding Leisure, is 
not as significant as witnessed with the previous outbreaks. Whilst it is premature to ascertain 
the scale of the restrictions that may follow due to this outbreak, the Group remains positive of 
the underlying fundamentals of the industry groups in which it operates and expects a similar 
recovery to the traction observed in the second and fourth quarters of 2020/21 once isolation 
measures are eased. 
In conclusion, on behalf of the Board of Directors and all employees of the John Keells Group, 
I thank all our stakeholders for the support extended to the Group during the year. I also wish 
to thank all staff of the John Keells Group for their unstinted commitment, understanding and 
cooperation throughout an extremely challenging year.
Finally, I thank my colleagues on the Board and the Group Executive Committee for their valuable 
guidance and support during the year.
Krishan Balendra 
Chairman
24 May 2021
CHAIRMAN'S MESSAGE

19
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
Q4
Rs.million
2020/21 2019/20
YoY %
Revenue
36,146
30,816
17
EBITDA
7,123
5,057
41
PBT
6,994
4,708
49
GROUP HIGHLIGHTS
INVESTOR RELATIONS
The ensuing section details the key highlights of the 
year under review, followed by an overview of the 
key verticals, its industry potential, outlook and the 
initiatives that are undertaken to drive growth.
The JKH Investor Presentations are available on the Corporate Website to provide easier access and in-depth 
detail of the operational performance of the Group.
FINANCIAL AND MANUFACTURED CAPITAL
Performance Highlights
Group
Full Year
Q4
(Rs.million)
2020/21
2019/20
2018/19
2020/21
2019/20
Revenue - consolidated
    127,676     138,956     135,456 
38,816
36,868
Profit before interest and tax (EBIT)
         7,931       13,521       18,153 
5,224
5,025
Profit before interest, tax, depreciation 
and amortisation (EBITDA)
      15,609       20,188 
23,903
7,206
6,971
Profit before tax (PBT)
         5,445       12,403       17,379 
5,720
5,339
Profit after tax (PAT)
3,951          9,741       15,001 
4,857
4,048
Profit attributable to shareholders
4,772          9,414       14,254 
4,757
3,733
Key operational and financial highlights of our performance during the year under review.
 y
The Group witnessed a faster than anticipated recovery momentum with the performance 
of most businesses reaching pre COVID-19 levels with business activity and consumer trends 
being near normal by the end of the financial year. 
 y
Excluding Leisure, Group recurring EBITDA increased by 8 per cent to Rs.19.16 billion [2019/20: 
Rs.17.76 billion].
 y
A consortium consisting of Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone Limited (APSEZ) and JKH, 
in the capacity as the local partner, received a letter of intent (LOI) to develop and operate the 
West Container Terminal at the Port of Colombo as a public private partnership (PPP) project.
 y
The Supermarket business witnessed a sharp quarter-on-quarter recovery momentum in sales, 
with the fourth quarter same store sales recovering to pre COVID-19 levels. 
 y
The Consumer Foods business recorded a strong recovery during the year, particularly the 
performance of the Frozen Confectionery business. The Frozen Confectionery business 
recorded its highest monthly sales volume in March 2021 in the history of its operations. 
 y
Whilst the opening of the airports is expected to augur well for reviving the tourism industry in 
Sri Lanka and the Maldives, the performance of the Leisure business will largely depend on the 
pace of revival of regional and global travel, when travellers regain confidence, particularly with 
the vaccination drives in many countries. The performance of the Maldivian Resorts and the 
momentum of forward bookings have been very encouraging. 
 y
With the completion of one residential apartment and the commercial tower at 'Cinnamon Life', 
the hand-over process of the units will commence, on a staggered basis, from the first quarter 
of 2021/22 onwards, resulting in the recognition of revenue and profits from 'Cinnamon Life'. 
Project completion is scheduled for the first quarter of 2022/23.
 y
The Insurance business recorded double digit growth in gross written premiums during 
the year driven by an encouraging increase in regular new business premiums. The Banking 
business recorded an increase in profitability driven by focused recovery efforts, cost 
management initiatives and higher investment income.
With the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, 
Group performance in the year under 
review was impacted, particularly in 
the first quarter. However, the Group 
witnessed a faster than anticipated 
recovery momentum with the 
performance of most businesses, except 
for the Leisure industry group, reaching 
pre COVID-19 levels with business activity 
and consumer trends being near normal 
by the end of the financial year.
Rs.122.32bn 
RECURRING EBITDA
Rs.19.16bn 
RECURRING PBT
Rs.13.95bn 
RECURRING PAT
Rs.11.53bn 
1%
8%
1%
3%
GROUP REVENUE, EXCL. EQUITY 
ACCOUNTED INVESTEES
Rs.10.96bn 
3%
RECURRING PAT ATTRIBUTABLE TO 
EQUITY HOLDERS
www.keells.com/investor-presentation
2020/21
2019/20
2018/19
Diluted earnings per share
(Rs.)
3.6
             7.1 
           11.1 
Return on equity (ROE)
(%)
             2.2 
             4.5 
             7.5 
Pre-tax return on capital employed (ROCE)
(%)
            2.1 
             4.2 
             6.8 
Total assets
(Rs.million)
    536,679 
    436,944 
    363,797 
Net debt to equity
(%)
20.0
14.0
1.9
RECOVERY MOMENTUM 
EXCLUDING LEISURE
2019/20: Rs.121.36bn
2019/20: Rs.17.76bn
2019/20: Rs.13.85bn
2019/20: Rs.11.19bn
2019/20: Rs.10.63bn

20   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
GROUP HIGHLIGHTS
INSIGHTS
In June 2020, JKH entered into a 10-year 
financing arrangement for USD 175 
million with the International Finance 
Corporation (IFC). Although the entirety 
of the loan was drawn down during the 
year, this did not impact Group net debt 
since the cash balance was retained at a 
Holding Company level.
JKH Equity Market Trading Statistics 
2020/21
2019/20
Average daily turnover  
(Rs.million)
238
223
Percentage of total market turnover  
(%)
8
28
Market capitalisation  
(Rs.billion)
196.0
152.2
Percentage of total market capitalisation  (%)
6.3
7.1
(Rs.bn)
(%)
Distributions to Shareholders and
Payout Ratio
Dividend paid
Dividend payout
FY17
FY18
FY19
FY20
FY21
0
2
4
6
8
10
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
7.3
8.3
8.2
4.6
2.0
45
40
54
49
41
INVESTOR RELATIONS
Industry Group-wise Quarterly Performance
The following provides an insight to the performance of the industry groups across the quarters, demonstrating the recovery trajectory to pre 
COVID-19 levels. 
 y
The Group businesses were significantly impacted in Q1 due to the lockdown implemented to mitigate the spread of COVID-19 from March 2020 
onwards.
 y
Post the easing of restrictions from mid-May 2020 onwards, Group businesses, with the exception of Leisure, displayed a faster than anticipated 
recovery momentum in Q2.
 y
The outbreak of the second wave of COVID-19 in early October 2020 and the resultant restrictions imposed caused a slowdown in business activity 
and dampened consumer sentiment, although less pronounced than originally witnessed in the first lockdown. The subsequent gradual easing of 
restrictions enabled the businesses across the Group to recover to near normal levels by the end of Q3.
 y
The recovery momentum continued during Q4, with Group businesses, with the exception of Leisure, demonstrating a strong performance, 
particularly on the back of improved consumer sentiment.
 y
For comparative purposes, it should be noted that operations in March 2020 were disrupted for a period of 2 weeks with the onset of the pandemic 
in the country.
Group EBITDA
2020/21
Rs.million
YoY %
Total (Rs.million)
YoY %
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
2020/21 2019/20
Transportation
 395 
 929 
 930 
 1,356 
 (63)
 (16)
 (28)
 47 
 3,610 
 4,375 
 (17)
Consumer Foods
 487 
 953 
 605 
 1,276 
 (42)
 30 
 (16)
 15 
 3,321 
 3,408 
 (3)
Retail
 502 
 1,373 
 1,696 
 1,952 
 (52)
 34 
 8 
 32 
 5,523 
 5,108 
 8 
Leisure
(1,461)
(1,187)
(1,008)
 84 
 (335)  (1,163)
 (258)
 (96)
(3,572)
 2,327 
(253)
Property
 (29)
 (12)
 14 
 10 
 (162)
 (128)
 (57)
 (98)
 (17)
 641 
(103)
Financial Services
 537 
 652 
 1,300 
 1,156 
 23 
 16 
 12 
 39 
 3,645 
 2,988 
 22 
Other, incl. Information Technology and 
Plantation Services
 371 
 608 
 748 
 1,373 
 (24)
 39 
 242 
 606 
 3,100 
 1,340 
 131 
Group
 802 
 3,316 
 4,285 
 7,206 
 (78) 
 (18)
 (24)
 3 
15,609 
 20,188 
 (23)
Group, excl. Leisure
 2,263 
 4,503 
 5,293 
 7,123 
 (42) 
 15 
 6 
 41 
19,182 
 17,860 
 7 
 y
During the year under review, the Company paid three interim dividends of Rs.0.50 per 
share, each, in August and December 2020, and March 2021. 
 y
A final dividend for 2020/21 of Rs.0.50 per share is declared to be paid in June 2021, 
reflecting the positive momentum of the performance of the businesses in the fourth 
quarter of 2020/21, notwithstanding the impacts of the current outbreak on the cash 
generation capability of the Group's diverse portfolio of businesses and the continued 
impact of the Leisure businesses on the overall performance of the Group. 
 y
The total dividend declared per share for the financial year 2020/21 amounted to Rs.2.00 
per share [2019/20: Rs.2.50 per share]. 
 y
The Group will follow its dividend policy which corresponds with growth in profits, whilst 
ensuring that the Company maintains adequate funds to ensure business continuity, 
particularly given the prevailing challenging circumstances, and fund its pipeline of 
strategic investments.

21
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
GOVERNANCE
ECONOMIC VALUE ADDED STATEMENT
63
37
(%)
Shareholding Structure
Foreign
Domestic
99%
free-float
99%
free-float
29
71
(%)
Board Composition
Independent
Non-Executive Directors
Executive Directors
RESILIENCE IN INVESTING
 y
The Group has been on an investment heavy cycle, where significant capital has been 
deployed in our Group businesses which paves the way for transformative growth into  
the future. 
 y
However, despite the unprecedented events over the last two years, which significantly 
impacted the performance of the portfolio, these investments have continued steadfastly, 
demonstrating the Group's 'resilience in investing'. These investments include;
 y
The iconic 'Cinnamon Life' project – this investment is poised to realise the benefits 
from the commencement of operations from the ensuing year onwards. 
 y
Doubling of the number of Supermarket outlets to over 120 outlets in the last three 
years, post the roll out of the new brand identity and related initiatives.
 y
Significant capacity and capability expansion in the Frozen Confectionery business 
with the investment in the impulse ice cream factory. 
 y
Investments in enhancing its efficiencies and capability in businesses such as the 
Insurance business. 
 y
Refurbishing and upgrading its three Maldivian hotels, including the acquisition of 
a long-term lease on a new hotel, 'Cinnamon Velifushi Maldives' and re-opening of 
'Cinnamon Bentota Beach' in Sri Lanka. 
 y
While these investments had short-term impacts on performance over the last couple of 
years on account of related expenses and disruptions, the longer-term benefits of some of 
these investments are now translating to significant performance upside in these businesses, 
which are not fully visible in the reported results due to the offsetting impact on account of 
disruptions given the unprecedented events over the last two years.
 y
Investments going forward will include the West Container Terminal in the Port of Colombo 
in partnership with the Adani Group in India, continuing investments towards the outlet 
expansion at the Supermarket business, enhancing capability in the Frozen Confectionery 
business, among others.
Introduced an improved and 
augmented Agile Working Policy 
to facilitate the current working 
arrangements with greater clarity, 
ensuring a higher degree of employee 
involvement and flexibility.
Direct Economic  
Value Generated
Economic Value 
Retained
Economic Value 
Distributed
Rs.144,898mn
Rs.9,959mn
Rs.134,939mn
REVENUE
Rs.127,676mn
VALUATION GAIN/(LOSS) ON 
INVESTMENT PROPERTY
Rs.(253)mn
OPERATING  
COSTS
Rs.109,977mn
COMMUNITY INVESTMENTS
Rs.135mn
DEPRECIATION
Rs.4,726mn
AMORTISATION
Rs.3,261mn
PROFIT AFTER DIVIDENDS
Rs.1,972mn
FINANCE INCOME*
Rs.10,689mn
EMPLOYEE WAGES AND 
BENEFITS
Rs.15,342mn
PAYMENTS TO PROVIDERS 
OF FUNDS
Rs.6,419mn
PAYMENTS TO GOVERNMENT
Rs.3,066mn
PROFIT ON SALE OF ASSETS 
AND OTHER INCOME
Rs.2,627mn
SHARE OF RESULTS OF EQUITY 
ACCOUNTED INVESTEES
Rs.4,159mn
As a leader in diverse industries, the Group's impact spans far and wide, generating and distributing considerable economic value to the nation and all 
areas within the Group's sphere of operations.
*Includes interest income from life insurance policyholder funds at Union Assurance PLC.
2019/20: Rs.155,594mn
2019/20: Rs.17,663mn
2019/20: Rs.137,931mn
2019/20: Rs.138,956mn
2019/20: Rs.110,817mn
2019/20: Rs.4,185mn
2019/20: Rs.3,250mn
2019/20: Rs.15,805mn
2019/20: Rs.2,769mn
2019/20: Rs.56mn
2019/20: Rs.8,003mn
2019/20: Rs.10,709mn
2019/20: Rs.2,242mn
2019/20: Rs.9,357mn
2019/20: Rs.573mn
2019/20: Rs.4,466mn

22   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
INVESTOR RELATIONS
COVID-19 INSIGHT
The Group evaluated the resilience of 
the businesses under multiple scenarios, 
including extreme operating conditions 
and continued to proactively evaluate 
operational and financial health 
measures which included the following: 
 y
Adopted weekly dashboards, covering 
financial and non-financial KPIs and 
revised targets.
 y
Established 'cash war rooms' and 
'spend control towers'.
 y
A freeze on all non-essential capital 
expenditure.
 y
Enforced stringent expense control 
measures.
 y
Applied for relief measures extended 
by the Government and Central Bank, 
where relevant. 
Primary areas of focus and 
challenges, amongst many others, 
being recurrently addressed by JKH
 y
Board diversity
 y
Board independence
 y
Increasing emphasis on 
environmental, social and governance 
(ESG) aspects
 y
Continual strengthening of internal 
controls
 y
Digital oversight and cyber security
 y
Data protection, information 
management and adoption
 y
Greater employee involvement in 
governance 
OUTLOOK
 y
Institution of a Gender Policy. 
 y
Enhancing aspects of employer supported 
childcare such as extension of maternity 
and paternity leave and introduction of 
adoption leave. 
 y
Launching awareness sessions on 
addressing unconscious bias.
 y
Establishment of the Group's first Diversity, 
Equity and Inclusion (DE&I) team.
NEW SUSTAINABILITY 
GOALS FOR 2025
New goals established are at company 
or sector level with goals extending into 
new focus areas
NATURAL CAPITAL
WATER  
TREATED
WASTE RECYCLED/ 
REUSED
33%
22%
11 MT 
of recyclable plastic waste collected 
island-wide 
(Rs.Mn)
Carbon Footprint (MT) per Rs.million
of Revenue
2018/19
2019/20
2020/21
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.72
0.69
0.64
(Rs.Mn)
Water Withdrawal (m3) per Rs.million
of Revenue
2018/19
2019/20
2020/21
0
3
6
9
12
15
13.14
13.57
13.19
CARBON FOOTPRINT
82,009 MT 
15%
2019/20 96,821 MT
WATER WITHDRAWN
1,677,672 m3 
12%
2019/20 1,896,084 m3                        
WASTE GENERATED
6,763 MT 
13%
2019/20 7,760 MT
DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSION
GROUP HIGHLIGHTS
19
81
(%)
Energy Breakdown
Non-renewable
Renewable
(Rs.Mn)
Waste Generated (MT) per Rs.million
of Revenue
2018/19
2019/20
2020/21
0.00
0.01
0.02
0.03
0.04
0.05
0.06
0.07
0.08
0.07
0.06
0.05
PAPER CONSERVATION
Collected
for recycling 
18,899 kg 
ENERGY SAVING
of energy saved through energy efficiency and 
other initiatives at business unit level 
1,113 GJ

23
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
HUMAN CAPITAL
Revised Maternity & Paternity 
leave policies 
ONLINE TRAINING DURING COVID-19 PANDEMIC
Remote learning, e-modules, knowledge sharing series, learning competitions, leadership 
development and access to e-books.
2019/20
2020/21
0
5
10
15
20
25
8.0
8.3
4.6
23
18
(%)
Total Group Attrition
Goal to increase female participation 
to 40% by 2025/26
OCTAVE continued to develop, pilot and roll 
out a series of use cases in the Supermarket 
and Insurance businesses, where preliminary 
results have been promising.
STRATEGIC REALIGNMENT
INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL
John Keells X continued to monitor 
and support its current portfolio of 
start-ups.
'Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts' was 
strategically realigned to create a unified 
organisational structure to ensure a 
synergised approach across the Group's 
hotels with a view to providing a further 
enhanced customer value proposition.
The 'Keells' brand was listed amongst 
the top 10 most visible brands on 
the internet in Sri Lanka by the Asia 
Pacific Institute of Digital Marketing.
226
Number of Volunteers
~900
Number of Volunteer Hours
Employees
Contractor’s Personnel
0
3,000
6,000
9,000
12,000
15,000
8.0
8.3
4.6
13,889
6,203
(Persons)
Total Group Workforce
Employee benefit liability as of 31 March  
(Rs.billion)
2020/21
2019/20
2.3
2.3
70
30
(%)
Employees by Gender
Female
Male
TRAINING
315,547 hours 
50%
2019/20: 629,844 hours
INJURIES
83 incidents 
30%
2019/20: 118 incidents
Established to serve as guidance for 
Group companies, to put in place 
working arrangements to ensure 
business continuity and safe and flexible 
conditions for employees and other 
stakeholders.
AGILE WORKING POLICY
Union Assurance (UA) was awarded the 
Best Brand and Sustainable Marketing 
Excellence award by CMO Asia/CMO 
Global and was selected as the top 
ranked Insurance Company in the Life 
and Non-life categories in the inaugural 
'LMD's Most Awarded'.
The 'Elephant House' brand won the gold 
award for 'confectionery and beverage 
products'.
John Keells Research (JKR) explored 
opportunities to commercialise 
JKR's contemporary rubber graphite 
composite technology and its wireless 
energy harvesting technology.
AWARDS
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
EMPLOYEES RECEIVING 
PERFORMANCE REVIEWS
100%

24   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
GROUP HIGHLIGHTS
INVESTOR RELATIONS
Rs.144,898 Mn
Rs.134,939 Mn
Rs.9,959 Mn
Economic Value Generated 
Economic Value Distributed 
Economic Value Retained 
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL 
PERSONS BENEFITED
2,805 
FOREST RESTORATION UNDERTAKEN 
20 Ha 
PERSONS BENEFITED
334,908 
PERSONS BENEFITED
93,635 
PERSONS BENEFITED
247,713
PERSONS BENEFITED
76,853
Key Projects: 
 y
Soft Skills Webinar Series piloted for 
university students 
 y
Launch of Skill into Progress (SKIP) 
programme to upskill selected suppliers 
of the Group in strategic business skills 
 y
English Language scholarships and 
Higher Education scholarships awarded 
to disadvantaged school children and 
university students
Key Projects: 
 y
Initiation of a restoration project 
involving 20 hectares of identified forest 
land adjoining the Sinharaja forest, a 
world heritage site
 y
Commencement of the 8th phase of the 
tea replanting project 
 y
239 persons benefited 
Key Projects:
 y
Public awareness campaigns to 
commemorate the International Day 
for the Elimination of Violence against 
Women and National Children's Day and 
launch of a staff e-learning platform 
 y
Piloting of Substance Abuse Prevention 
Awareness programmes
Key Projects:
 y
Kala Pola (Art Fair): hosting of the first 
virtual event and piloting of a pop-up 
sale featuring senior artists
 y
Continuation of primary sponsorships 
for the Museum of Modern and 
Contemporary Art and the Gratiaen Trust
 y
Commencement of sponsorship of the 
Aluwihare Heritage Centre
Key Projects:
 y
Immediate food relief for affected 
communities 
 y
Support for COVID-19 front-line workers 
through donation of various health and 
safety equipment
 y
Support for resumption of school and 
public institutions post-lockdown through 
the provision of handwashing units 
Key Projects:
 y
Closure of the 7-year integrated 
development programme in two 
disadvantaged villages in Mullaitivu 
 y
Empowerment of women's livelihoods 
by upskilling women engaged in batik 
craft and in producing paper products
EDUCATION
ENVIRONMENT
HEALTH
ARTS & CULTURE
LIVELIHOOD 
DEVELOPMENT
DISASTER RELIEF
CSR Focus Areas:
Rs.51 Mn
756,153
CSR spend
Number of people impacted
BUSINESSES ANALYSED FOR 
RISK OF CORRUPTION
100%
(%)
Purchases from Suppliers within Sri Lanka
85
y 72 suppliers engaged through 
supplier fora
y Supplier Code of Conduct in place 
SUPPLIER ENGAGEMENT

25
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
The Port of Colombo (POC) is strategically 
positioned on the main East-West shipping routes.
Dar es Salaam
Lamu
Aden
Bahl
Gwadar
Karachi
Yangon
Chennai
Mumbai
Kochi
Mombasa
Kolkata
Chittagong
Visakhapatnam
Capacity enhancements in the POC - WCT and ECT.
TRANSPORTATION
INDUSTRY GROUP HIGHLIGHTS
Industry Potential
y
A consortium consisting of Adani 
Ports and Special Economic Zone 
Limited (APSEZ) and JKH, in the 
capacity as the local partner, executed 
a letter of intent (LOI) to develop 
and operate the West Container 
Terminal at the POC as a public private 
partnership (PPP) project on a build, 
operate and transfer (BOT) basis for a 
lease period of 35 years.
y
Lanka Marine Services (LMS) entered 
into a contract with Sinopec Fuel 
Oil Lanka Limited. (SFOL) to supply 
bunker fuel in the Port of Hambantota 
(POH).
 y
Envisaged capacity enhancements in the POC and shipping lines opting for 'hub and spoke' services 
will spearhead the thrust to establish Colombo as a leading transshipment hub in the region.
 y
Expected increase in bunkering market driven by increased storage and infrastructure.
 y
Growing demand for logistics services through growth in inbound project cargo and other 
major industries.
Our Business 
 y
42 per cent stake in SAGT – container 
terminal (capacity of ~2 million TEUs).
 y
Leading bunkering services provider.
 y
One of the largest cargo and logistics 
service providers in the country.
 y
JV with Deutsche post for DHL air express 
and AP Moller for Maersk Lanka.
 y
GSA for KLM Royal Dutch Airlines and  
Gulf Air.
 y
Warehousing and supply chain management.
 y
Domestic scheduled and charter air taxi 
operations.
Immediate to Short-Term
Medium to Long-Term
Ports, Shipping and Bunkering
Ports, Shipping and Bunkering
Logistics and Transportation
Logistics and Transportation
 y
Leverage on opportunities arising from increased demand for warehousing and deliveries via 
e-commerce platforms. 
 y
Explore prospects for cross business opportunities.
 y
The continuing impact of reduced tourist arrivals, passenger traffic, travel restrictions and 
dampened consumer sentiment is expected to impact the Airline businesses.
KEY HIGHLIGHTS
SOUTH HARBOUR 
DEVELOPMENT
CURRENT 
HARBOUR
SAGT
East 
Terminal
West 
Terminal
South Terminal
JCT
CICT
WCT
ECT
Strategy and Outlook 
2020/21
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4 Q2 to Q4*
Full year
SAGT volumes   
(TEU '000)
377
527 
439
467
1,433
1,810
Port of Colombo volumes (TEU '000)
1,474
1,911 1,665
1,750 
5,325
6,800
Bunkering volume growth (%)
(30)
(28)
(18)
(21) 
(17)
(20)
* Excludes the impact of lockdown restrictions in Q1 due to COVID-19.
INSIGHT INTO 2020/21 PERFORMANCE
Key Performance Indicators
2020/21
2019/20
% 
2018/19
SAGT volumes 
(TEU '000)
1,810
2,066
(12)
2,074 
Transshipment: Domestic mix 
87:13
81:19
81:19
Port of Colombo volumes
(TEU '000)
6,800
7,241
(6)
7,132 
Bunkering volume growth
(%)
(20)
(7)
6
Warehouse space under management (Sq.ft. '000)
517
318
62
315
 y
Short-term disruptions to industry demand possible on the back of the COVID-19 crisis in India 
as several ports globally have barred the entry of vessels which have called at South Asian ports, 
including Sri Lanka. While it is premature to assess the impact of these developments, market 
expectations are that it will be short-term and that trade volumes will remain resilient.  
 y
Given that most employees in the Ports business are fully vaccinated, it is unlikely that there 
will be a serious outbreak of cases disrupting operations.
 y
Anticipated growth in regional and global economies coupled with a rebound in the 
domestic economy is expected to facilitate a growth in overall volumes in the POC.
 y
Focus on improving transshipment: Domestic TEU mix to optimise profitability.
 y
Continue to explore opportunities arising from the Ports of Colombo, Hambantota and 
Trincomalee, particularly in relation to bunkering and storage.
 y
Explore opportunities arising from the anticipated growth in regional and domestic trading 
activity, and ongoing infrastructure developments in the country.
 y
Optimise cost and operational efficiencies through emphasis on digitisation initiatives.
 y
Recovery in tourism is expected to improve performance of the Airline segment.

26   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
INVESTOR RELATIONS
CONSUMER FOODS
Industry Potential
Key Performance Indicators
Our Business 
 y
Strong market presence in beverages, frozen confectionery and 
processed meats through 'Elephant House' and 'Keells-Krest' brands.
 y
Pioneers of instant rice branded 'Ezy rice', an affordable, easy-to-
prepare and ready-to-eat single serve product.
 y
A portfolio of beverages catering to a wide array of customers and 
island-wide distribution network.
Immediate to Short-Term
Medium to Long-Term 
 y
The recent outbreak of COVID-19 cases may result in temporary 
disruptions to the Consumer Foods businesses, hampering the 
recovery momentum in volumes.
 y
Similar to the trends in 2020/21, a recovery in volumes is 
expected once the stringent isolation and healthcare measures 
are eased.
 y
Augment its processes to thrive in the 'new normal' and 
continued emphasis on exploring business opportunities in 
emerging online and delivery channels.
 y
Proactively engage with suppliers and distributors to ensure a 
seamless supply chain and better handle the working capital cycle.
 y
Activity levels are expected to rebound in tandem with 
improving consumer confidence and economic activity driven 
by an accommodative monetary policy.
 y
Continue to invest in supply chain and augment product 
portfolio to drive growth in both urban and rural areas.
 y
Focus on initiatives aimed at improving product margins across 
the portfolio.
 y
Focus on consolidating product portfolio. 
 y
Invest in digitisation, particularly leveraging on data analytics 
to optimise cost savings, production practices and productivity, 
and identify growth opportunities.
 y
Per capita consumption of beverages at 14 litres, is below peer 
markets.
 y
Per capita consumption of ice creams at 3 litres, is far below 
developed markets.
 y
Bulk:impulse ice cream mix in regional markets is highly skewed 
towards the impulse segment, demonstrating significant potential 
within the impulse category.
 y
Emerging 'health conscious' consumers and growing need for 
'convenient' main meal options.
100,000+
49
15
~2,500
Outlet reach
Ice Cream flavours
CSD flavours
Total freezers and 
coolers deployed 
during the year
Strategy and Outlook 
%
2020/21
2019/20
2018/19
Volume Growth 
Beverages (CSD)
(14)
7
(25)
Frozen Confectionery (FC)
(1)
3
10
Convenience Foods
(6)
0
7
EBITDA Margins 
Beverages and FC
20.3
21.2
17.6
Convenience Foods
19.0
13.5
19.2
PBT Margins  
Beverages and FC
14.2
14.7
11.5
Convenience Foods
12.3
8.1
14.8
(%)
Revenue Mix
Beverages:FC
Volume Mix
Impulse:Bulk
Impulse
2019/20
2020/21
2019/20
2020/21
0
20
40
60
80
100
Beverages
FC
Bulk
48
52
57
43
30
70
30
70
Volume growth 
2020/21 (%)
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4 Q2 to
 Q4
Full
 year
Frozen Confectionery
(36) 
19 
(11)
30 
13
(1)
Impulse
(40) 
16 
(6) 
16 
10
(3)
Bulk
(34) 
20 
(13) 
38 
14
(0)
Beverages (CSD)
(44) 
1 
(13) 
1 
(3)
(14)
Convenience Foods
(27) 
(2) 
(13) 
22 
1
(6)
 y
Although volumes in Q1 were significantly affected by the island-
wide curfew, the easing of restrictions thereafter in mid-May 
resulted in a faster than expected recovery where volume growth 
reverted to pre-lockdown levels by the second quarter.
 y
This momentum was hampered by the performance of Q3 which 
was impacted by the cluster outbreaks in early-October and the 
resultant restrictions imposed, although less pronounced than 
originally witnessed during the first lockdown. 
 y
Notwithstanding this, the businesses witnessed a recovery in 
volumes in Q4 of 2020/21. However, volumes in March 2020 were 
disrupted thereby distorting the comparative.
INSIGHT INTO 2020/21 PERFORMANCE
INDUSTRY GROUP HIGHLIGHTS

27
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
RETAIL
Key Performance Indicators
Supermarkets (%)
2020/21
2019/20
2018/19
Same store sales growth  
(8.6)
4.0
2.3
Same store footfall growth  
(31.5)
1.8
4.5
Average basket value growth  
33.4
2.2
(2.0)
EBITDA margin  
7.6
8.0
5.4
PBT margin  
0.8
1.7
0.1
Office Automation (%)
2020/21
2019/20
2018/19
EBITDA margin  
8.9
7.5
5.1
PBT margin  
9.1
5.1
2.2
Source: Central Bank of Sri Lanka, Nomura Research Institute
Source: World Bank indicators
Industry Potential
Supermarket Business
 y
Modern trade penetration at 16 per cent, is one of the 
lowest in the region.
 y
Growing popularity of modern trade as a result of:
 y
Convenient and modern shopping experience.
 y
Access to diverse categories and brands at attractive 
prices.
 y
Rising per capita income, rapid urbanisation and 
changing consumption patterns.
Office Automation Business
 y
Increased smartphone penetration in the country.
 y
Increased digital adoption within the country driven by 
smart mobile devices.
 y
The Supermarket business revamped its online 
platform, enabling a more diverse offering and real-
time stock availability, amongst other features, to 
enable a faster and better shopping experience. 
 y
The Office Automation business recorded a 25 per 
cent growth in volumes in the mobile phone segment 
reaching a billion rupees in sales during the months of 
November and December, for the first time in history.
KEY HIGHLIGHTS
0
20
40
60
80
Modern Retail Penetration
Modern Retail Penetration
(%)
(%)
Singapore
Malaysia
Hong Kong
Taiwan
Thailand
Sri Lanka
Our Business
Supermarket Business
 y
High brand equity post the rebranding of 'Keells' – recognised as the 'Most Valuable 
Supermarket Brand in 2020' by Brand Finance.
 y
123 modern trade outlets uniquely branded to cater to evolving consumer lifestyles.
 y
Private label consisting of ~400 SKUs.
 y
Operates 'Nexus mobile', one of the most successful loyalty programmes in the 
country with ~1.4 million active members.
Office Automation Business
 y
John Keells Office Automation (JKOA) is the authorised distributor for Samsung 
smartphones and leading global office automation brands.
2020/21
(%)
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4 Q2 to
 Q4
Full 
year
Same store sales
 (33.1)
 (1.9)
 (1.0)
 1.5 
 (0.4)
 (8.6)
Customer footfall
 (55.3)
 (17.2)
 (33.8)
 (19.1)
 (23.6)
 (31.5)
Average basket value
 49.7 
 18.5 
 49.6 
 25.5 
 30.3 
 33.4 
The statistics on footfall and basket values are distorted in the short-term due to changes in 
shopping patterns.
 y
Same store sales in the first quarter in the year under review was significantly 
impacted by the island-wide lockdown. Revenue was negatively impacted 
during this period, as most of the outlets remained closed to the public while 
online sales could not fully offset this impact. 
 y
The easing of restrictions thereafter in mid-May resulted in a recovery in sales 
towards pre-lockdown levels in the second quarter. 
 y
The cluster outbreaks in early-October 2020 and the resultant restrictions 
triggered panic buying which led to an increase in same store sales and 
average basket value (ABV), despite the decline in footfall. The business also 
witnessed an increase in the penetration of online sales due to the isolation 
measures which were in place. 
 y
The business recorded a recovery in same store sales, thereafter, driven by 
growth in ABV on the back of improved consumer sentiment, recovery 
in discretionary spending, and changes in shopping behaviour in light of 
COVID-19. 
 y
While same store sales recorded a decline as explained above, the revenue and 
contribution from new stores helped partially mitigate this impact.
INSIGHT INTO 2020/21 PERFORMANCE
0
20
40
60
80
Sri Lanka Urbanisation vs. Regional Peers
Sri Lanka Urbanisation vs. Regional Peers
(%)
(%)
Nepal
India
Myanmar
Bangladesh
Malaysia
Bhutan
Sri Lanka

28   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
INDUSTRY GROUP HIGHLIGHTS
INVESTOR RELATIONS
Strategy and Outlook 
LEISURE
Key Performance Indicators
2020/21
2019/20
2018/19
Colombo Hotels
Occupancy* 
(%)
3
34
48
ARR  
 
(USD)
104
100
128
EBITDA margin 
(%)
(84.0)
10.5
22.7
Sri Lanka Resorts
Occupancy  
(%)
16
61
80
ARR  
 
(USD)
64
78
90
EBITDA margin 
(%)
(140.6)
11.4
30.2
Maldivian Resorts
Occupancy  
(%)
27**
56
84
ARR  
 
(USD)
349
364
320
EBITDA margin 
(%)
(8.4)
27.0
28.3
* Excludes 'Cinnamon Red Colombo'.
**Occupancy in Q4 was at 53 per cent.
Cinnamon Dhonveli 
Maldives 
Cinnamon Velifushi 
Maldives
Cinnamon Hakuraa 
Huraa Maldives
Ellaidhoo Maldives 
by Cinnamon
Velana International 
Airport
Cinnamon Citadel 
Kandy 
Trinco Blu by 
Cinnamon
Cinnamon Bey 
Beruwala
Cinnamon Grand Colombo
Cinnamon Lakeside Colombo
Cinnamon Red Colombo
Habarana Village 
by Cinnamon
Cinnamon Bentota 
Beach
Cinnamon Lodge 
Habarana
Hikka Tranz by 
Cinnamon
Cinnamon Wild Yala 
 y
The Maldivian and the Sri Lankan airports were closed until July 
2020 and January 2021, respectively.
 y
Post the opening of the Malé airport, the Maldivian Resorts 
segment witnessed an encouraging recovery in occupancy from 
December 2020 onwards. The segment also witnessed an increase 
in the average duration of stay in comparison to CY2019.
KEY HIGHLIGHTS
Immediate to Short-Term
Medium to Long-Term 
 y
Despite the ongoing outbreak of COVID-19 cases, the impact on 
performance is expected to be less pronounced than witnessed 
previously, given that the business is better equipped to 
navigate these challenging times.
 y
Ramp up capability in serving customers through online 
delivery platforms through an omni-channel approach. 
 y
Engage with suppliers and other stakeholders to ensure a 
continually functioning supply chain.
 y
Capitalise on the low penetration of modern trade in the 
country.
 y
Expansion of outlets in both urban and suburban areas through 
a mix of modular and standard stores.
 y
Proposed distribution centre to drive significant process and 
operational efficiencies.
 y
Leverage on data analytics for the development and 
implementation of use cases to enhance business performance 
and productivity.  
 y
Increase private label penetration to enhance customer choice 
and drive profitability margins.
 y
Differentiate the shopping experience through its 'fresh' 
promise, service excellence and quality within 5 activity pillars; 
product, price, place, people and the customer.
Our Business 
 y
'Cinnamon', a well-established hospitality brand in Sri Lanka and the 
Maldives.
 y
Diverse product offering based on 'Inspired living'.
 y
Combined room inventory of 2,556 rooms under management in 
both Sri Lanka and the Maldives.
 y
Land bank of 125 acres of freehold and 111 acres of leasehold land in 
key tourism locations.
 y
Leading inbound tour operator.
in Sri Lanka and 
the Maldives
Rooms under 
management 
Sri Lanka
Maldives
2,112
454
3
Colombo 
Hotels 
12
Resort 
Hotels
Industry Potential
 y
Encouraging growth momentum of tourist arrivals to Sri Lanka  
(5-year CAGR of 13 per cent – as at CY2018).
 y
Proximity to India and increased flight connectivity.
 y
Infrastructure led growth driving MICE and corporate tourists.
 y
Sought after tourist destination in the region, with increased 
popularity and recognition – centred around its natural diversity and 
cultural heritage.

29
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
'Tri-Zen' units sold
of the total area available for sale
Pre-sales of the 'Cinnamon Life' Residential Towers
342
64%
 y
Restrictions in travel worldwide and the closure of borders for 
most parts of the year adversely impacted the Leisure businesses. 
 y
It is encouraging to witness the momentum of forward bookings 
in the Maldives, demonstrating a significant 'pent up' demand for 
leisure travel.
 y
Leisure businesses in Sri Lanka witnessed a recovery in domestic 
travel coupled with a revival in banqueting and, food and 
beverage activity, although this was temporarily impacted by the 
outbreak in October 2020.
 y
The latter end of the period under review was characterised by 
positive developments such as the roll out of COVID-19 vaccines, 
re-opening of both international airports in Sri Lanka for tourism 
coupled with better sentiment although performance continued 
to be significantly affected given restrictions in travel in key 
source markets.
INSIGHT INTO 2020/21 PERFORMANCE
Strategy and Outlook 
Immediate to Short-Term
Medium to Long-Term
 y
The current outbreak of COVID-19 cases in Sri Lanka may 
impede recovery, particularly given adverse travel advisories 
from source markets and the imposition of island-wide travel 
restrictions by the Government.
 y
The use of a few Group hotels as intermediate care centres (ICC) 
for the treatment of asymptomatic COVID-19 patients will help 
partially mitigate the impact of a drop in domestic tourism.
 y
Operations are expected to revert to pre COVID-19 levels over 
the next few months given the aggressive ramp up of the 
COVID-19 vaccination programme in the country coupled with 
a resurgence in international travel.
 y
Forward bookings at the Group's hotels indicate significant 
'pent up' demand for leisure travel, similar to the recovery trends 
in arrivals witnessed in the Maldives.
 y
The Group envisages a full revival of tourism to the Maldives by 
the end of this year.
 y
The prospects for tourism remain extremely positive considering 
the diversity of the offering and the potential for regional 
tourism.
 y
Greater focus on asset-light investment models as a part of the 
strategy to enhance the 'Cinnamon' footprint.
 y
Colombo Hotels segment will uniquely position itself to 
capitalise on the MICE and banqueting segment through the 
addition of the 'Cinnamon Life' hotel to its portfolio in 2022/23.
 y
Capitalise on the envisaged growth in tourism by leveraging on 
the availability of the full complement of the portfolio of hotels 
in Sri Lanka and the Maldives post refurbishment and upgrades. 
PROPERTY
Industry Potential
 y
An urban population of 17 per cent, far below regional peers.
 y
Emerging suburban multi-family housing market.
 y
Increasing demand for mid-tier housing units within the city.
 y
Port City Colombo project, positioning Sri Lanka as a regional 
financial and trade hub.
 y
Increased demand for commercial space.
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
Leisure - Occupancies
Leisure - Occupancies
(%)
(%)
Apr
Mar
Feb
Jan
Dec
Nov
Oct
Sep
Aug
Jul
Jun
May
Colombo Hotels
Island-wide lockdown/intermittent isolation measures in Sri Lanka
Sri Lankan Resorts
The Maldives
reopens its borders
for tourism
Sri Lanka
reopens for
international tourism
Maldivian Resorts
Our Business
 y
Reputed property developer in the country with multiple high-rise 
apartments completed and fully sold.
 y
Projects developed under the 'Luxe Spaces', 'Metropolitan Spaces' 
and 'Suburban Spaces' verticals which cater to the luxury, mid-tier 
and suburban multi-family housing segments.
 y
Construction of the iconic integrated mixed-use development 
'Cinnamon Life' comprising a 800-room super luxury hotel and 
conference centre, a state-of-the-art office complex, luxury residential 
apartments and a retail mall.
 y
Ongoing development of 'Tri-Zen', a 'Metropolitan' development 
based on smart living in the heart of the city.
 y
Land bank:
 y
Prime land bank of over 36 acres in central Colombo.
 y
Developable freehold land of ~25 acres in close proximity to 
Colombo city.
 y
Over 500-acres of scenic leased land with an 18-hole golf course 
with a developable land extent of ~80 acres.

30   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
Strategy and Outlook 
Immediate to Short-Term
Medium to Long-Term 
 y
Despite the escalation of COVID-19 cases in the country, 
construction activity at both 'Tri-Zen' and 'Cinnamon Life' sites 
are currently continuing, in adherence to stringent regulations.
 y
The business will continue to work closely with contractors to 
manage the impact on the overall projects, its resources and 
deliverables.
 y
The commissioning of the towers at 'Cinnamon Life' along 
with the rest of the complex nearing completion has led to a 
significant increase in sales interest.
 y
Capitalise on the opportunity of low mortgage rates to drive 
home ownership.
 y
Monetise the existing land bank available to the industry group, 
subject to market conditions, through systematic development 
strategies to roll out a robust pipeline of developments via the 
land parcels available.
 y
Shift to a broader customer base, targeting domestic demand 
for high quality housing at attractive price points.
 y
Continue to explore the expanding of its commercial real estate 
offering, subject to demand shifts due to the pandemic, at 
attractive price points.
 y
Focused strategies for expansion via developer/landowner 
tie-ups.
INDUSTRY GROUP HIGHLIGHTS
INVESTOR RELATIONS
Key Performance Indicators
Mall Occupancy (%)
2020/21
2019/20
2018/19
K-Zone Ja-Ela
82
87
91
K-Zone Moratuwa
90
98
85
Crescat
71
85
97
*Occupancy during the year was impacted by the COVID-19 related restrictions.
Cumulative Sales (Units)
2020/21
2019/20
2018/19
Cinnamon Life
The Residence
140
137
136
Suites
111
110
104
Commercial Complex
4
4
4
Tri-Zen
342
262
200
*With the completion of the residential and apartment towers, there is a significant 
increase in sales interest.
Central 
Expressway
Northern 
Expressway
Eastern 
Expressway
Kandy
Jaffna
Trincomalee
Hambantota
Matara
Port City
Colombo
Southern 
Expressway
Katunayake 
Expressway
Outer Circular 
Highway
Expressways
Proposed Extensions
Ruwanpura 
Expressway
Significant investments in public 
infrastructure enabling better 
connectivity and mobility which 
contributes to significant land price 
appreciation.
(%)
(%)
Greater
Colombo
Singapore
Thailand
(Central
Bangkok)
Thailand
(Outskirts)
Malaysia
(Central KL)
Malaysia
(Greater KL)
India
(Chennai)
India
(Bangalore)
0
20
40
60
80
100
Apartments
Landed houses
90
10
95
5
80
20
60
40
70
30
50
50
55
45
65
35
Apartment Penetration in Sri Lanka in Comparison to Regional Peers
Apartment Penetration in Sri Lanka in Comparison to Regional Peers
 y
With 'Cinnamon Life' nearing completion, the Group is now 
poised to realise its benefits; revenue and profit recognition from 
the handover of the residential and office units will commence 
from the first quarter of 2021/22 onwards. Project completion is 
scheduled for the first quarter of 2022/23. 
 y
The Group launched its first real estate products under the Victoria 
Golf course development during Q3, which includes land parcels, 
town houses and villa developments.
 y
As a part of the planned Group's land banking strategy, the Group 
increased its equity stake at Vauxhall Land Developments (Private) 
Limited (VLDL), an entity which owns a 9.38-acre plot of prime 
land on Vauxhall Street, Colombo. With this acquisition, the Group 
is of the view that the existing land bank is adequate to sustain a 
steady pipeline of projects in the long-term. 
KEY HIGHLIGHTS
Source: Company analysis

31
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
Strategy and Outlook 
FINANCIAL SERVICES
Industry Potential
Life Insurance Industry
CY2020 CY2019 CY2018
Life Insurance
Premium growth  
(%)
13
4
11
Market share  
(%)
13
13
14
Life fund  
(Rs.billion)
41.9
35.5
30.6
Capital adequacy ratio  
(%)
341
362
262
Banking
Growth in loans and advances  
(%)
(7)
2
19
Return on equity  
(%)
12.1
12.8
15.3
Net interest margin  
(%)
4.1
4.9
5.0
Non-performing loan ratio  
(%)
7.2
6.2
4.6
Capital adequacy ratio - total capital  (%)
18.3
18.0
16.0
Key Performance Indicators
Immediate to Short-Term
 y
Less disruption to underwriting of new business and collections 
expected due to improved digital infrastructure and processes. 
 y
Impacts on consumer income may increase the risk of policy lapses.
 y
Increased requirement for digital solutions amidst the COVID-19 
pandemic will bode well given significant investments undertaken in 
digital capabilities.
 y
Continued focus on an optimal asset allocation to maximise return 
while managing risks.
 y
Continue to develop innovative insurance products to expand 
bancassurance and alternate channels, thereby diversifying its channel mix.
 y
Focus on innovation, digitisation and data analytics for higher 
operational efficiencies and better customer insights.
 y
Execute strategies aimed at the continuous improvement of the 
agency force.
 y
A prolonged outbreak may result in lacklustre credit growth on the 
back of reduced consumer spending. 
 y
Key focus will be to manage collections and recoveries, and selective 
return-based loan growth.
 y
The Bank will proactively look to manage its asset quality which may 
weaken on back of increased stresses in cash flows of the borrowers.
 y
Continue to leverage on its digital platforms and channels, on the back 
of increasing demand for digital infrastructure.
 y
Selectively grow in select verticals whilst leveraging on its strong 
customer relationships, and digital offering.
 y
Augment its digital infrastructure and processes to ensure better 
customer service, innovative solutions and efficiency in operations.
 y
Efficient management of credit costs, management of impairment and 
preserving credit quality.
0
1
2
3
4
Life insurance penetration at 0.55 per cent of GDP, one of the
lowest penetrated markets in the South Asian region.
Life insurance penetration at 0.55 per cent of GDP, one of the
lowest penetrated markets in the South Asian region.
(%)
(%)
Malaysia
Thailand
India
Vietnam
Indonesia
Philipines
Sri Lanka
11.3% of working population
Over 65 age group
Elderly population (over 65) as a proportion of the working 
population is expected to rise from 9 per cent in 2015 to 21 per 
cent by 2045.
 y
Increased labour mobility and economic development is 
expected to increase the level of urbanisation in Sri Lanka, which 
is currently low compared to the rest of the world.
 y
Increased requirement for digital capabilities amidst COVID-19 
pandemic.
 y
Under-utilised bancassurance and digital distribution channels, 
despite high bank branch density.
Banking Industry
 y
Industry loans and advances growth of 11 per cent in calendar 
year 2020.
 y
Advances in technology around customer experience, 
disintermediation, delivery channels, and process automations.
Our Business
Life Insurance
 y
Operating footprint of 75 branches, excluding virtual locations.
 y
Agency force of over 3,384.
 y
Market share of 13 per cent.
Banking
 y
Branch network of 96 outlets, 111 ATMs and 62 CRMs.
 y
Strong online presence.
 y
Sri Lanka's first digital bank, 'FriMi'.
 y
Largest issuer of credit cards in Sri Lanka.
Life Insurance
Life Insurance
Banking
Banking
Medium to Long-Term
Source: Swiss Re sigma No 4 /2020

32   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
OTHER, INCLUDING INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY 
AND PLANTATION SERVICES
INDUSTRY GROUP HIGHLIGHTS
INVESTOR RELATIONS
Industry Potential
Our Business
Strategy and Outlook
Information Technology
Information Technology
Information Technology
Plantation Services
Plantation Services
Plantation Services
 y
Increased digital adoption within the country and growing 
digital literacy.
 y
Investment in futuristic technology infrastructure.
 y
Businesses and operations increasingly adopting digital 
practices.
 y
Competitive labour force and high-quality services to drive the 
business process outsourcing (BPO) industry.
 y
Software solutions and consultation services based on Internet 
of Things (IOT), Robotic Process Automation (RPA) and other 
digital stack solutions.
 y
Brand presence in Middle East and North Africa (MENA) and Asia 
Pacific (APAC) regions as a leading digital solutions provider.
 y
Strategic partnerships with SAP, Microsoft and UiPath.
 y
BPO service provider with the mandate of driving greater 
efficiencies for their clientele. Core focus areas of finance and 
accounting, payroll management and data digitisation.
Immediate to Short-Term
 y
Leverage on its strategic partnerships and capabilities to 
offer smart software solutions, especially in the areas of cloud 
computing, software as a service (SaaS) and automation.
 y
Explore potential opportunities for managed services, 
outsourcing and offshoring in given the 'new' ways of working.  
Medium to Long-Term 
 y
Explore opportunities in cloud-based solutions and services 
across industries, with emphasis on cloud, SaaS, automation, 
advanced analytics, application modernisation, cyber resilience 
and, platform/ecosystem thinking, among others.
 y
Leverage on its strategic partnerships to expand regionally, 
particularly in the MENA and APAC regions.
 y
Focus on delivering innovative consultative solutions and 
services across the four value stacks of 'Core', 'Cloud', 'Platforms' 
and 'Ecosystems'. 
 y
Build and expand its capabilities beyond core enterprise 
resource planning (ERP), enterprise applications and managed 
development centres.
 y
Expand the range of solutions offered as shared services to 
drive greater adoption across clients and expand third party 
clients, locally and offshore.
 y
Sustained growth in global tea consumption with growing 
demand for value-added tea.
 y
Anticipated growth in demand from Middle Eastern countries.
 y
Increased focus on existing as well as new markets, whilst 
capitalising on the unique flavour, quality and brand presence 
of 'Ceylon Tea'.
 y
Leading tea and rubber broker.
 y
Operates 7 tea factories producing both CTC and orthodox tea.
 y
Manufacturer of low grown teas.
Immediate to Short-Term
 y
Minimal disruptions to the operations of the Colombo tea 
auction post transition to an electronic platform.  
 y
Factories continued to operate, under social distancing and, 
health and safety measures, as advised by health officials.
 y
Potential reduction in oil prices and devaluation of currencies in 
major tea drinking nations may exert pressure on demand.
Medium to Long-Term 
 y
Explore opportunities to capitalise on demand for low grown 
tea from Middle East and Russia, and emerging tea drinking 
countries such as Germany and the United States.
 y
Emphasis on the quality of products while also diversifying the 
manufacturing mix to meet market trends and mitigate risks.
 y
Optimise costs and improve factory utilisation.

33
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
DYNAMIC
35  External Environment x 38  Capital Management Review x 66  Industry Group Review  
134  Outlook x 149  Strategy, Resource Allocation and Portfolio Management x 156  Share Information

34   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
This Report is prepared in accordance with the Integrated 
Reporting Framework of the International Integrated 
Reporting Council with an aim of providing our 
stakeholders an insightful view of the Group's operations. 
The Management Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) 
section of this Report consists of the following sections.
Capital Management Review
Discusses the forms of Capital available for deployment and how such Capital created value 
to stakeholders, at a Group level. It also reviews the performance of each form of Capital and 
the value enhancement/deterioration during the year under review.
Industry Group Review
Discussion on the operational performance coupled with detailed insights to the value 
creation process of each industry group.
External Environment
Entails a discussion of key macro fundamentals, which impacted favourably or unfavourably, 
the Group's ability to create value.
Outlook
Provides a discussion on the economic outlook for Sri Lanka for the short, medium and  
long-term, the impacts to the businesses and the overall business strategy of the Group. 
Strategy, Resource Allocation and Portfolio Management
Analyses the performance of the overall portfolio, the overall strategy and means by which 
capital is allocated for investments. The performance of the Group is also measured against 
the long-term strategic financial objectives of the Group.
Share Information
Entails a high-level discussion on the performance of financial markets, both globally and 
regionally, followed by a detailed discussion of the JKH share performance. Key disclosures 
pertaining to shareholders of JKH, as required by relevant regulators, is also included in  
this section.

35
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT
This section embodies the economic, political 
and legal backdrop the Group operated in 
and the resulting impacts during the year.
The global economy is estimated to have 
contracted by 3.3 per cent in CY2020 
[CY2019: expansion of 2.3 per cent], given 
the unprecedented impacts arising from 
the COVID-19 pandemic. Impacts were 
more pronounced in economies reliant on 
tourism, commodity exports and those with 
constraints on the agility of monetary and 
fiscal policy response. Proactive interventions 
by Governments and Central Banks through 
accommodative monetary and fiscal policies 
to boost economies assisted in curtailing a 
deeper contraction for CY2020.
(5)
(4)
(3)
(2)
(1)
0
(%)
Global Economy
Advanced Economies
Emerging Markets and
Developing Economies
Emerging and
Developing Asia
Sri Lanka
CY2020 Economic Growth
(3.3)
(4.7)
(2.2)
(1.0)
(3.6)
Source: International Monetary Fund World Economic 
Outlook - April 2021, Central Bank of Sri Lanka
Sri Lanka recorded a 3.6 per cent contraction 
in GDP in CY2020, the lowest since its 
independence in 1948, as a result of the 
COVID-19 pandemic, compared to the growth 
of 2.3 per cent recorded in CY2019. The 
Government and the Central Bank of Sri Lanka 
(CBSL) utilised three types of policy responses 
to contain the overall impact of the COVID-19 
pandemic in CY2020; 
(1) border control and health and safety 
related measures.
(2) fiscal measures, including moratoria on 
repayment of loans, concessionary working 
capital facilities for eligible industries and 
financial support to low income earners 
and individuals affected by the pandemic. 
(3) monetary and financial sector measures, 
including capital flow management, 
reduction in policy rates and the statutory 
reserve ratio, together with measures 
aimed at easing pressure on the financial 
services sector.
Although general price levels, as 
demonstrated through headline and core 
inflation, exhibited some volatility in CY2020, 
inflation remained within mid-single digit 
levels, owing to subdued demand for non-
essential goods and services on the back 
of restrictions in movements and COVID-19 
containment measures. Inflationary pressures 
were more pronounced in the food category.
The outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic 
presented significant challenges on the 
external front. Restrictions in travel worldwide, 
coupled with the closure of the country's 
borders for tourists adversely impacted 
tourism earnings throughout the year. This 
was further exacerbated by notable outflows 
from both the Government securities market 
and the equities market through the Colombo 
Stock Exchange, limited foreign direct 
investment (FDI) and lower merchandise 
exports on the back of subdued global 
demand. However, merchandising exports 
demonstrated a strong rebound, as developed 
countries also saw recovery in consumer 
spend driven by accommodative policy 
measures in their own markets. Restrictions on 
imports together with lower oil prices towards 
the first half of the year helped reduce the 
trade deficit since exports remained resilient, 
while worker remittances noted a 5.8 per cent 
increase in CY2020. 
The financial account noted a net outflow 
primarily in lieu of higher foreign outflows, 
maturities of International Sovereign Bonds 
(ISB) and lower FDI. This was offset, to an extent, 
by the receipt of the foreign currency term 
financing facility from the China Development 
Bank in March 2020, and the SAARCFINANCE 
swap arrangement by the Reserve Bank of India 
in July 2020. Gross official reserves stood at 
USD 5.7 billion as at CY2020 [CY2019: USD 7.6 
billion]. The CBSL entered into a currency swap 
worth the equivalent of USD 1.5 billion with the 
People's Bank of China in March 2021 and a loan 
agreement for USD 500 million with the China 
Development Bank in April 2021.
The exchange rate came under significant 
pressure during March–April 2020 and the latter 
part of 2020. Interventions by the CBSL on the 
domestic foreign exchange market through 
the supply of foreign currency, execution of 
short-term swaps with licensed commercial 
banks and measures implemented to restrict 
non-essential imports and limit foreign 
exchange outflows helped ease the pressure 
on the exchange rate. Whilst the exchange 
rate depreciated by 3 per cent against the 
USD in CY2020, prolonged shortage of foreign 
currency in the market resulted in the exchange 
rate further depreciating by 7 per cent from 
December 2020 to March 2021. 
Government debt as at the end of the CY2020 
stood at Rs.15,117 billion [CY2019: Rs.13,032 
billion], which is a debt-to-GDP ratio of 101.0 
per cent [CY2019: 86.8 per cent]. Of this, the 
total outstanding foreign debt in rupee terms 
decreased by 5 per cent to Rs.6,052 billion as 
at December 2020, while the share of foreign 
debt declined marginally to 40 per cent. 
Given a sharp rise in the sovereign debt-to-GDP 
ratio, increasing challenges in lieu of external 
debt repayment, significant capital outflows, 
weakening local currency and liquidity 
constraints, Fitch Ratings and S&P Global ratings 
downgraded Sri Lanka's sovereign rating to 
'CCC' from 'B- 'whilst Moody's downgraded the 
rating to 'Caa1' from 'B2' with a 'stable' outlook 
on the economy. It is pertinent to note that, the 
Government honoured all its debt servicing 
obligations in CY2020, including the USD 1 
billion ISB which matured in October 2020.
Proactive interventions 
by Governments and 
central banks through 
accommodative monetary 
and fiscal policies to 
boost economies assisted 
in curtailing a deeper 
contraction for CY2020.

36   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
Development of economic and social infrastructure by the Government was significantly disrupted 
by the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic although construction activities and infrastructure 
development gradually recovered with the removal of the island-wide lockdown in May 2020. The 
Government commissioned a new feasibility study for the establishment of a new oil refinery in 
Sapugaskanda under a public-private partnership (PPP). Construction of the Central Expressway 
continued during the year. Addressing the long overdue need for capacity enhancement in the POC, 
the Government decided to proceed with the development of the East Container Terminal (ECT) and 
the West Container Terminal (WCT), during the year under review. The development of the ECT will 
be implemented by the Sri Lanka Ports Authority while a consortium consisting of Adani Ports and 
Special Economic Zone Limited (APSEZ) and JKH, in the capacity as the local partner, executed a letter 
of intent (LOI) to develop and operate the WCT as a public private partnership (PPP) project. The WCT 
project will be constructed on a build, operate and transfer (BOT) basis for a lease period of 35 years.
EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT
The ensuing sections detail the movement of the primary macroeconomic variables during the year under review and the resultant impacts on the 
performance of the Group's businesses. 
Macroeconomic Variable
Cause
Impact to JKH
GDP Growth
(Rs.bn)
CY18
CY19
CY20
0
2,000
4,000
6,000
8,000
10,000
12,000
Agriculture
Industries
Services
GDP growth
753
756
734
2,798
2,873
2,662
6,118
6,255
6,135
(3.6)
2.3
3.3
Sri Lanka's economy contracted by 3.6 per cent in 
CY2020 [CY2019: 2.3 per cent growth].
The contraction in the overall economy 
was driven by a contraction across all 
three sectors. Whilst the decline in the 
Industrial and Agricultural sectors were 
more pronounced at negative 6.9 per cent 
[CY2019: Increase of 2.6 per cent] and 
negative 2.4 per cent [CY2019: Increase 
of 1.0 per cent], respectively, the Services 
sector recorded a decline of 1.5 per cent 
[CY2019: increase of 2.2 per cent]. 
Consumption expenditure at current prices 
recorded moderate growth at 2.1 per cent in 
CY2020 [CY2019: 7.4 per cent]. Growth was 
hampered due to restrictions in movement 
and subdued consumer spending in light 
of income uncertainty which resulted in 
private consumption expenditure recording 
lacklustre growth of 1 per cent whilst 
Government consumption expenditure 
recorded a 9.8 per cent growth in CY2020. 
Reduced activity following the outbreak of 
the COVID-19 pandemic impacted most of 
the Group businesses, particularly the Leisure 
industry group. 
Businesses across the Group recorded a 
faster than expected rebound in business 
activity with the easing of restrictions, with 
near normalcy levels reached from the end of 
CY2020 onwards.
Inflation
0
2
4
6
8
10
(%)
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
January
February
March
FY21 (CCPI)
FY20 (CCPI)
FY21 (NCPI)
FY20 (NCPI)
Year-on-year headline inflation, based on the 
NCPI, was 5.1 per cent in March 2021 [March 
2020: 7.0 per cent].
Inflation continued to be contained to 
mid-single digits in 2020/21, on the back of 
subdued demand for non-essential goods 
and services.
Year-on-year core inflation, based on NCPI, 
which measures the underlying inflationary 
pressures of the economy increased to 4.3 
per cent in March 2021 from 3.2 per cent in 
March 2020, due to a marginal increase in 
non-food inflation. 
The food category also witnessed 
inflationary pressures in 2020/21 albeit 
supported by administrative price control 
measures introduced by the Government to 
maintain stable pricing.
Inflationary pressures were particularly evident 
in the Consumer Foods industry group, where 
price increases in some raw material exerted 
pressure on margins.
Refer the Transportation industry group review 
for further details - page 66 
A more comprehensive discussion of the external 
environment relevant to the businesses is found 
in the Industry Group Review section - page 66 

37
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
Macroeconomic Variable
Cause
Impact to JKH
Domestic Interest Rates
5
6
7
8
9
10
(%)
Average Weighted Prime Lending Rate (weekly)
Mar-20
May-20
Jul-20
Sep-20
Nov-20
Jan-21
Mar-21
AWPLR decreased to 5.75 per cent in March 2021 
from 9.29 per cent in March 2020.
The 3-month treasury bill rate was 5.05 per cent 
in March 2021 compared to 7.00 per cent in the 
corresponding period.
In response to the slowdown in economic 
activity on the back of the COVID-19 
pandemic, the CBSL continued to follow its 
expansionary monetary policy adopted in 
the previous year. The CBSL, reduced the 
Standing Deposit Facility Rate (SDFR) and 
the Standing Lending Facility Rate (SLFR) 
by 25, 50 and 100 basis points each in April, 
May, and July 2020 to reach 4.50 per cent 
and 5.50 per cent, respectively.
The CBSL also reduced the Statutory 
Reserve Ratio (SRR) by 200 basis points to 
2.00 per cent in June 2020.
The Group recorded an overall increase in 
finance income (excluding exchange gains 
and losses), primarily driven by an increase in 
Group cash and cash equivalents, as discussed 
in detail in this section under Financial and 
Manufactured Capital. 
Subject to liquidity requirements and other 
considerations, where possible, the Group 
made a conscious effort to invest in medium-
term instruments given the downward trend 
exhibited by interest rates.
The Group's finance expense increased 
primarily on account of a significant increase in 
overall debt. 
Global Interest Rates
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
1.2
1.4
1.6
(%)
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
January
February
March
3-month USD LIBOR
3-month USD LIBOR decreased to 0.19 per  
cent in March 2021, from 1.45 per cent in March 2020.
The Federal Reserve Open Market 
Committee (FOMC) continued to maintain 
the federal funds rate within a target range 
of 0-0.25 per cent during the year under 
review.
The Financial Conduct Authority, ICE 
Benchmark Administration, US Federal 
Reserve, and others confirmed the cessation 
of LIBOR quotes in GBP, EUR, CHF, JPY, and 
one-week and two-month USD LIBOR as of 
31 December 2021 whilst all remaining USD 
rate settings, including the three-month and 
six-month tenors, will cease to be quoted 
from June 2023.
The Group's USD cash holdings increased as 
result of the USD 175 million facility obtained 
from the International Finance Corporation (IFC). 
The Group entered into a hedge to mitigate the 
Group's exposure to rate fluctuations for almost 
the entirety of the USD 175 million loan facility 
from IFC. The partial hedge of the USD 395 million 
syndicated loan facility for the 'Cinnamon Life' 
project continued during the year under review.
Exchange Rate
180
185
190
195
200
205
(LKR/USD)
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
January
February
March
LKR/USD exchange rate
The Rupee depreciated by 5 per cent to Rs.199.83 
against the USD as at 31 March 2021, compared 
to its closing rate of Rs.189.91 per USD as at 31 
March 2020.
The LKR/USD exchange rate recorded a 
3 per cent depreciation in CY2020. The 
exchange rate depreciated by a further 7 
per cent in the fourth quarter of 2020/21. 
CBSL interventions such as the supply of 
foreign currency liquidity and execution of 
short-term FOREX swaps, helped ease the 
pressure.
The depreciation of the Rupee had a positive 
financial impact on the Holding Company, 
given its conscious strategy of maintaining a 
sizeable USD cash holding.
In addition to implementing foreign exchange 
exposure management strategies, the Group 
endeavours to maintain, or where relevant, 
create a 'natural hedge' to manage the volatility 
of the foreign exchange markets. Unlike previous 
years, the Leisure business in Sri Lanka had 
some impact given the closure of the country's 
borders for tourists in most parts of the year.
The exchange rate exposure arising from 
the 'Cinnamon Life' project is mitigated to 
an extent since the functional currency of 
the project company, Waterfront Properties 
(Private) Limited, is in USD.

38   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT REVIEW
The underlying essence of our business model 
and business framework is to ensure sustainable 
value creation for all stakeholders whilst ensuing 
a resilient and agile business.
The key inputs of our value creation model are:
Key inputs 
of our value 
creation model
Financial and Manufactured 
Capital
Intellectual Capital
Social and 
Relationship Capital
Human Capital
Natural Capital
The sections that follow, detail the means by which each form of Capital is utilised for the 
execution of the businesses' short, medium and long-term strategies towards generating 
sustainable value to all stakeholders concerned. The sections also detail the performance of the 
Group, under each form of Capital.
In addition to the core operations of each of the business units, the Group makes a conscious, 
strategic and collective effort to cater to wider societal needs, meaningfully enriching and 
empowering the lives of the surrounding communities via John Keells Foundation (JKF), its 
corporate social responsibility (CSR) entity. The CSR initiatives of the Group represent how the 
Group's values, corporate culture and operations are intrinsically intertwined and connected to 
social, economic, environmental and governance concerns. The Group's CSR initiatives are aligned 
to national priorities, Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and principles of the UN Global 
Compact to ensure a collective, targeted focus towards addressing key universal needs for holistic 
development, focusing on the three dimensions of sustainable development - economic growth, 
social inclusion and environmental protection.
The Group's CSR vision 'Empowering the Nation for Tomorrow' embodies social empowerment 
and sustainable environmental practices which are fundamental to sustainable growth. The 
Group's CSR initiatives entail medium to long-term, strategic and sustainable projects within a 
framework of six focus areas, namely, Education, Health, Livelihood Development, Environment, 
Arts & Culture and Disaster Relief. Given the integrated nature of this Report, the Group's CSR 
initiatives are discussed under the relevant form of Capital.
Further business-specific CSR initiatives are found in the Industry Group Review section of this Report and the 
John Keells Foundation website (www.johnkeellsfoundation.com).
FINANCIAL AND 
MANUFACTURED 
CAPITAL
With the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, 
Group performance in the year under review 
was significantly impacted, particularly that 
of the Leisure industry group which did not 
demonstrate the same recovery momentum 
as witnessed in all other key businesses 
in the Group. Whilst the impact on overall 
performance was more pronounced during 
periods of lockdown, business momentum 
has since recovered significantly across the 
quarters, with Group businesses, barring 
Leisure, recording an encouraging recovery 
by the end of the calendar year 2020. In this 
light, whilst the ensuing discussion provides a 
holistic view on the Group's performance and 
key drivers during the year, where relevant, 
insight will be provided on the Group's 
performance excluding the distortionary 
impact of the Leisure businesses to better 
depict the underlying performance of the 
Group.    
Revenue
Group revenue recorded a 8 per cent decrease 
to Rs.127.68 billion during the year under review 
[2019/20: Rs.138.96 billion]. Whilst challenges 
on the back of the COVID-19 pandemic 
exerted pressure on revenue growth across 
the Group, the decrease primarily stemmed 
from the Leisure industry group given global 
travel restrictions and the closure of borders 
in both Sri Lanka and the Maldives for most 
parts of the year. Group revenue, excluding the 
Leisure industry group increased marginally 
to Rs.122.32 billion against the previous year 
[2019/20: Rs.121.36 billion].
Revenue emanating from domestic sources 
was Rs.110.07 billion [2019/20: Rs.98.90 billion].

39
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
0
10
20
30
40
50
Composition of Revenue incl. Equity Accounted Investees
Composition of Revenue incl. Equity Accounted Investees
(%)
(%)
FY20
FY21
Transportation 
Leisure
Retail
Consumer Foods
Property
Financial Services
Other, incl.
Information
Technology
& Plantation Services 
21.2
18.3
10.8
11.4
41.0
48.3
11.2
3.7
0.9
12.5
14.4
2.4
2.7
1.3
Group revenue, inclusive of equity accounted 
investees, decreased by 8 per cent to Rs.145.44 
billion [2019/20: Rs.157.83 billion]. Excluding 
the Leisure industry group, the corresponding 
figure stood at Rs.140.07 billion [2019/20: 
Rs.140.08 billion]. 
Revenue from equity accounted investees at 
Rs.17.77 billion, was a marginal decline against 
the Rs.18.88 billion recorded in 2019/20. Whilst 
revenue recognition of the 'Tri-Zen' residential 
project and improved performance at Fairfirst 
Insurance Limited positively contributed to 
revenue, this was offset through a notable 
reduction in revenue at Nations Trust Bank 
(NTB) and South Asia Gateway Terminals 
(SAGT). Revenue at NTB was impacted by the 
slowdown in demand for credit, the sharp 
reduction in interest rates and the impact of 
the moratorium loan portfolio whilst SAGT 
was impacted by lower volumes due to the 
COVID-19 pandemic, mainly in the first quarter, 
as well as a shift in the throughput mix given 
import restrictions in the country.
For a industry group-wise analysis of performance, refer the Industry Group Reviews - page 66 
Earnings Before Interest Expense, Tax, Depreciation and Amortisation
Group EBITDA decreased by 23 per cent to Rs.15.61 billion during the year under review [2019/20: 
Rs.20.19 billion] mainly on account of the Leisure businesses. Excluding the Leisure industry group, 
Group EBITDA increased by 7 per cent to Rs.19.18 billion [2019/20: Rs.17.86 billion] demonstrating the 
strong recovery of the businesses and the generation of cash profits by the Group.
Note that EBITDA includes interest income and the share of results of equity accounted investees 
which is based on the share of profit after tax but excludes the impact of exchange gains and 
losses on its foreign currency denominated debt and cash, to demonstrate the underlying cash 
operational performance of businesses.
Group EBITDA Reconciliation (Rs.million)
2020/21
2019/20
%
Group revenue excl. equity accounted investees
 127,676 
 138,956 
 (8)
(-) Cost of sales
 108,747 
 112,874 
 (4)
(+) Other operating income
 2,627 
 2,242 
 17 
(-) Selling and distribution expenses
 4,761 
 5,519 
 (14)
(-) Administration expenses
 12,928 
 13,143 
 (1)
(-) Other operating expenses
 1,314 
 2,873 
 (57)
(+) Finance income
 10,689 
 9,357 
 14 
(+/-) Change in insurance contract liabilities
 (7,032)
 (5,617)
 25 
(+/-) Change in fair value of investment property
 (253)
 573 
 (144)
(+) Share of results of equity accounted investees
 4,159 
 4,466 
 (7)
(+) Depreciation and amortisation
 7,986 
 6,955 
 15 
(-) Exchange gain
 1,910
 1,986
 (4)
 16,191 
 20,537 
 (21)
(-) Adjustments relating to policyholders at UA*
 582 
 349 
66
Group EBITDA
 15,609 
 20,188 
 (23)
* Adjustments to arrive at the EBITDA solely attributable to the shareholders of the Group.
Whilst the impact on overall 
performance was more 
pronounced during periods 
of lockdown, business 
momentum has since 
recovered significantly across 
the quarters, with Group 
businesses, barring Leisure, 
recording an encouraging 
recovery by the end of CY2020.
GROUP REVENUE EXCL. LEISURE
Rs.122.32bn 
GROUP REVENUE
Rs.127.68bn 
1%
8%
2019/20: Rs.121.36 bn
2019/20: Rs.138.96 bn
EBITDA
Rs.15.61bn 
23%
2019/20: Rs.20.19 bn
EBITDA EXCL. LEISURE
Rs.19.18bn 
7%
2019/20: Rs.17.86 bn
The revenue breakdown across industry groups inclusive of share of associate revenue, is as follows:
Revenue incl. Equity Accounted Investees (Rs.million)
2020/21
2019/20
%
Transportation
 26,584 
 33,439 
 (21)
Consumer Foods
 16,510 
 17,004 
 (3)
Retail
 70,229 
 64,762 
 8 
Leisure
 5,374 
 17,754 
 (70)
Property
 1,910 
 1,395 
 37 
Financial Services
 20,890 
 19,675 
 6 
Other, incl. Information Technology and Plantation Services
 3,949 
 3,803 
 4 
Group
 145,446 
 157,833 
 (8)
Group, excl. Leisure 
 140,071 
 140,079 
 (0)

40   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT REVIEW
FINANCIAL AND MANUFACTURED CAPITAL
-30
-20
-10
0
10
20
30
40
Composition of EBITDA
Composition of EBITDA
(%)
(%)
Transportation 
Leisure
Retail
Consumer Foods
Property
Financial Services
Other, incl.
Information
Technology
& Plantation Services 
21.7
23.1
16.9
21.3
25.3
35.4
11.5
(22.9)
3.2
14.8
23.4
6.6
19.9
(0.1)
FY20
FY21
In terms of the composition of EBITDA, the Retail industry group was the primary contributor with 
a 35 per cent contribution, followed by Financial Services and Transportation with a contribution of 
23 per cent each.
Fair Value Gains/Losses on Investment Property
Fair value gains/losses on investment property (IP) were recorded at a loss of Rs.253 million in 
2020/21 [2019/20: gain of Rs.573 million], comprising of a loss of Rs.291 million at Property while 
Other, including Information Technology and Plantation Services, Leisure and Consumer Foods 
industry groups recorded marginal gains of Rs.18 million, Rs.16 million and Rs.3.9 million respectively. 
The fair value loss recorded at Property is mainly attributable to 'Crescat', given the closure of the 
property for refurbishment. Note that fair value gains and losses on IP are non-cash items.   
Recurring EBITDA
The recurring performance analysis entails the removal of one-off impacts in order to demonstrate 
the performance of the core operations of the businesses. To this end, fair value gains and losses 
on investment property (IP) have been excluded for all businesses, with the exception of Property. 
As the Group's land banking strategy is aimed at monetising such assets in the medium-term, IP 
gains are reflective of the core operations of the Property industry group. As such, only IP gains 
pertaining to industry groups other than Property, have been adjusted at a Group level. 
Recurring EBITDA for the year under review decreased by 22 per cent to Rs.15.57 billion, compared 
to Rs.20.07 billion recorded in the previous year. Excluding the Leisure industry group, recurring 
EBITDA increased by 8 per cent to Rs.19.16 billion [2019/20: Rs.17.76 billion]. The recurring EBITDA 
breakdown for each of the industry groups are given below. 
Recurring EBITDA (Rs.million)
2020/21
2019/20
%
Transportation
 3,610 
 4,375 
 (17)
Consumer Foods
 3,318 
 3,366 
 (1)
Retail
 5,523 
 5,108 
 8 
Leisure
 (3,588)
 2,306 
 (256)
Property
 (17)
 641 
 (103)
Financial Services
 3,645 
 2,988 
 22 
Other, incl. Information Technology and Plantation Services
 3,082 
 1,286 
 140 
Group
 15,572 
 20,069 
 (22)
Group, excl. Leisure
 19,160 
17,763
 8 
In the current year, the adjustments on account 
of one-off impacts are not material and therefore 
the variance between the EBITDA and recurring 
EBITDA for the Group and industry groups 
is not significant. Whilst the EBITDA of the 
Retail, Financial Services and Other, including 
Information Technology and Plantation Services 
industry groups recorded an improvement, 
EBITDA was impacted by the below: 
 y
Leisure – due to the impact of the COVID-19 
pandemic on global tourism and border 
closures in Sri Lanka and the Maldives.  
 y
Transportation – contraction in volume in 
the Group's Ports and Shipping business, 
SAGT, mainly in the first quarter, and a 
change in the throughput mix mainly due 
to disruptions in global trade, particularly in 
India and China, as a result of the COVID-19 
pandemic. The business also became 
liable for income tax from September 2019 
onwards.
 y
Consumer Foods – muted volume growth 
in the Frozen Confectionery business and 
a contraction in volumes in the Beverage 
business due to supply chain disruptions 
caused by the lockdowns and dampened 
consumer sentiment on the back of the 
COVID-19 pandemic, mainly in the first and 
third quarters of the financial year.
 y
Property – subdued performance of the 
mall operations due to the COVID-19 
pandemic and impacts on fair value gains/
losses on IP. 
For a detailed industry group-wise analysis, refer 
the Industry Group Reviews - page 66 
Depreciation and Amortisation 
The depreciation and amortisation expense 
for the year stood at Rs.7.99 billion, an increase 
of 15 per cent against the depreciation for 
2019/20 at Rs.6.95 billion. The depreciation 
and amortisation expense also includes the 
amortisation of lease liabilities as per SLFRS 
16 - Leases.
The increase in the depreciation and 
amortisation expense primarily stems from the:
 y
Supermarket business, driven by an 
increase in assets on account of the roll out 
of 15 new outlets during the year.
 y
Maldivian Resorts segment, stemming 
from an increase in lease amortisation from 
the new property 'Cinnamon Velifushi 
Maldives' and 'Cinnamon Hakuraa Huraa 
Maldives', given full year operation of the 
resorts as opposed to the previous year.
The EBITDA of the Retail, Financial Services and Other, 
including Information Technology and Plantation Services 
industry groups recorded an improvement.

41
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
Group Revenue
2020/21
Rs.million
YoY %
Total (Rs.million)
YoY %
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4 2020/21 2019/20
Transportation
 2,882 
 3,798 
 5,206 
 5,533 
 (45)
 (31)
 (17)
 (20)
 17,418 
 23,949 
 (27)
Consumer Foods
 2,883 
 4,786 
 3,621 
 5,220 
 (35)
 14 
 (10)
 20 
 16,510 
 17,004 
 (3)
Retail
12,292 
17,409 
19,832
20,696
 (20)
 9 
 14 
 30 
 70,229 
 64,762 
 8 
Leisure
 153 
 1,166 
 1,367 
 2,670 
 (95)
 (69)
 (72)
 (56)
 5,356 
 17,599 
 (70)
Property
 68 
 111 
 160 
 274 
 (55)
 (23)
 (0)
 101 
 612 
 590 
 4 
Financial Services
 2,296 
 3,787 
 4,121 
 3,397 
 (7)
 34 
 20 
 33 
 13,601 
 11,249 
 21 
Other, incl. Information Technology 
and Plantation Services
 935 
 1,063 
 926 
 1,026 
 3 
 3 
 (8)
 19 
 3,949 
 3,803 
 4 
Group
21,508 
32,120 
35,231 
38,816 
 (32)
 (4)
 (5)
 5 127,676 
138,956 
 (8)
Group, excl. Leisure
21,355 
30,954
33,865
36,146
 (25)
 4 
 5 
 17 122,319 
121,357
 1 
Group EBITDA
2020/21
Rs.million
YoY %
Total (Rs.million)
YoY %
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
2020/21 2019/20
Transportation
 395 
 929 
 930 
 1,356 
 (63)
 (16)
 (28)
 47 
 3,610 
 4,375 
 (17)
Consumer Foods
 487 
 953 
 605 
 1,276 
 (42)
 30 
 (16)
 15 
 3,321 
 3,408 
 (3)
Retail
 502 
 1,373 
 1,696 
 1,952 
 (52)
 34 
 8 
 32 
 5,523 
 5,108 
 8 
Leisure
(1,461)
(1,187)
(1,008)
 84 
 (335)  (1,163)
 (258)
 (96)
(3,572)
 2,327 
(253)
Property
 (29)
 (12)
 14 
 10 
 (162)
 (128)
 (57)
 (98)
 (17)
 641 
(103)
Financial Services
 537 
 652 
 1,300 
 1,156 
 23 
 16 
 12 
 39 
 3,645 
 2,988 
 22 
Other, incl. Information Technology and 
Plantation Services
 371 
 608 
 748 
 1,373 
 (24)
 39 
 242 
 606 
 3,100 
 1,340 
 131 
Group
 802 
 3,316 
 4,285 
 7,206 
 (78) 
 (18)
 (24)
 3 
15,609 
 20,188 
 (23)
Group, excl. Leisure
 2,263 
 4,503 
 5,293 
 7,123 
 (42) 
 15 
 6 
 41 
19,182 
 17,860 
 7 
Given the unprecedented nature of the pandemic and the resultant volatility of business performance during the year, the 
following provides an insight to the performance of the industry groups across the quarters and demonstrates the recovery 
trajectory witnessed in Group businesses. 
 y
The Group businesses were significantly impacted in Q1 due to the lockdown measures implemented to mitigate the spread of the COVID-19 
virus from March 2020 onwards. 
 y
Post the easing of restrictions from mid-May 2020 onwards, Group businesses, with the exception of Leisure, displayed a faster than 
anticipated recovery momentum in Q2. 
 y
Whilst the second wave of the COVID-19 outbreak in early October 2020 caused a slowdown in business activity and dampened consumer 
sentiment, the subsequent gradual easing of restrictions enabled the businesses across the Group to recover to near normal levels by the  
end of Q3. 
 y
The recovery momentum continued during Q4, with Group businesses, with the exception of Leisure, demonstrating a strong performance, 
particularly on the back of improved consumer sentiment. 
INDUSTRY GROUP-WISE QUARTERLY PERFORMANCE
For a detailed industry group-wise analysis refer the Industry Group Reviews - page 66 

42   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT REVIEW
FINANCIAL AND MANUFACTURED CAPITAL
Finance Income
Group finance income stood at Rs.10.69 billion during the year under review, an increase of 14 per 
cent [2019/20: Rs.9.36 billion], the composition of which is given in the table below. 
Finance Income (Rs.million)
2020/21
2019/20
Interest income from life insurance policy holder funds at UA
 5,020
 4,445 
Interest income of Group, excluding UA
 3,596
 2,600 
Other finance income
 2,073
 2,313 
Total
10,689 
 9,357 
 y
Interest income associated with UA of Rs.5.02 billion [2019/20: Rs.4.45 billion], net of related 
costs, is classified under operating segment results on the basis that the interest income from 
life insurance funds is considered operational income.
 y
The interest income of the Group, excluding UA, increased to Rs.3.60 billion [2019/20: Rs.2.60 
billion], owing to higher cash and cash equivalents at the Holding Company on account of the 
drawdown of the USD 175 million term loan facility from IFC. While this reflects an increase in 
interest income on a 'gross' basis, the related interest expense will be recorded under finance 
expense and therefore, not have a material 'net' impact.
 y
The decrease in other finance income to Rs.2.07 billion is primarily attributable to the decrease 
in the exchange gain on the Company's foreign currency denominated cash holdings to Rs.1.64 
billion as compared against the previous year [2019/20: Rs.1.96 billion]. 
Further details on finance income can be found in the Notes to the Financial Statements section of 
this Report - page 234 
Finance Expense
The finance expense, which includes interest expenses of the Group, increased by 48 per cent to 
Rs.4.67 billion, compared to Rs.3.17 billion recorded in 2019/20. The increase in total debt level 
of the Group including lease liabilities, by Rs.72.00 billion to Rs.172.90 billion [2019/20: Rs.100.91 
billion] primarily contributed to the increase in finance expenses. 
The key reasons that contributed to the increase in finance expense are:
 y
Supermarket business – due to funding obtained for the roll out of new outlets.
 y
Holding Company – on account of obtaining a long-term loan facility of USD 175 million from IFC.
 y
Leisure industry group – given the securing of multiple facilities in order to better navigate 
through the challenges of the COVID-19 pandemic.
In terms of composition, the largest contributor to finance expense was the Retail industry group, 
accounting for 36 per cent of total finance expense, followed by Other, including Information 
Technology and Plantation Services and Leisure at 27 per cent and 26 per cent, respectively.
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
Composition of Finance Expense
Composition of Finance Expense
(%)
(%)
Transportation 
Leisure
Retail
Consumer Foods
Property
Financial Services
Other, incl.
Information
Technology
& Plantation Services 
4.2
1.7
7.3
3.2
53.8
36.0
21.2
25.6
1.0
1.9
5.9
10.6
27.4
0.4
FY20
FY21
Finance expense incurred under the 
syndicated project development facility 
of 'Cinnamon Life' is capitalised as work-
in-progress, in accordance with the Group 
accounting policy, and in keeping with 
accounting standards, under other non-
current assets.
The interest cover of the Group, excluding 
unrealised losses on UA's equity portfolio, 
stood at 1.8 times in comparison to 4.4 times 
in 2019/20, primarily due to the negative 
impact on profits due to the pandemic. The 
movement in the interest coverage stems 
primarily from the 41 per cent decline in EBIT 
and a 48 per cent increase in finance expense, 
as outlined in the previous section. 
(Rs.mn)
(times)
Finance Expense and Interest Coverage
Finance expense
Interest cover
FY17
FY18
FY19
FY20
FY21
0
1,000
2,000
3,000
4,000
5,000
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
436
521
2,635
3,105
4,395
52.8
53.4
6.9
4.4
1.8
Finance expense incurred 
under the syndicated 
project development 
facility of 'Cinnamon Life' 
is capitalised as work-in-
progress, in accordance 
with the Group accounting 
policy, and in keeping with 
accounting standards, 
under other non-current 
assets.

43
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
Taxation
The Group tax expense decreased by 44 per cent to Rs.1.49 billion during the year under review 
[2019/20: Rs.2.66 billion]. The Group tax expense primarily comprises of a current tax charge of 
Rs.2.17 billion and a deferred tax reversal of Rs.793 million.
The effective tax rate (ETR) on Group profits increased to 27 per cent [2019/20: 21 per cent]. 
 y
The decrease in the tax expense is primarily attributable to the subdued performance of Group 
businesses, particularly the Leisure industry group.
 y
Although PBT of the Life Insurance business remained steady against the previous year, the 
business recorded a higher tax expense in 2020/21 which impacted profitability. This was 
driven by:
 y
An increase in the tax expense as a result of an expiry of claimable periods. 
 y
An impairment on notional tax credits of the business. 
Other, including Information Technology and Plantation Services, Financial Services and Retail were 
the highest contributors to the Group tax expense with Rs.935 million, Rs.863 million and Rs.249 
million respectively. 
For further details on tax impacts, refer the Notes to the Financial Statements section of 
this Report - page 237 
Profit After Tax 
The Group profit after taxation (PAT) stood at Rs.3.95 billion for the year under review, a decrease of 
59 per cent [2019/20: Rs.9.74 billion]. Excluding the Leisure industry group, Group PAT was Rs.11.55 
billion [2019/20: Rs.11.29 billion], an increase of 2 per cent against the previous year. 
As indicated in the graph below, the highest contributors to Group PAT were the Transportation, 
Financial Services, Other, including Information Technology and Plantation Services and Consumer 
Foods industry groups, with contributions of Rs.3.25 billion [2019/20: Rs.3.96 billion], Rs.2.50 billion 
[2019/20: Rs.2.22 billion], Rs.2.36 billion [2019/20: Rs.2.06 billion] and Rs.2.16 billion [2019/20: Rs.1.64 
billion], respectively. 
Excluding fair value gains/losses on investment property, as discussed previously, the recurring 
Group PAT decreased by 59 per cent to Rs.3.91 billion [2019/20: Rs.9.62 billion]. 
(200)
(150)
(100)
(50)
0
50
100
Composition of Group Profit After Tax 
Composition of Group Profit After Tax 
(%)
(%)
Transportation 
Leisure
Retail
Consumer Foods
Property
Financial Services
Other, incl.
Information
Technology
& Plantation Services 
40.7
82.2
16.9
54.6
11.0
39.7
(15.9)
(192.3)
3.3
22.8
63.2
21.2
59.6
(7.0)
FY20
FY21
The breakdown of Group PAT, between PAT attributable to equity holders and non-controlling 
interest (NI) are as follows:
Rs.million
2020/21
2019/20
%
PAT attributable to equity holders
 4,772
 9,414 
(49)
Non-controlling interest (NCI)
 (821)
 327 
(351)
Group PAT
 3,951 
 9,741 
(59)
Non-Controlling Interests (NCI)
PAT attributable to shareholders with NCI 
stood at a loss of Rs.821 million in 2020/21 
primarily on account of lower profits in the 
Leisure businesses, in which the Group owns 
effective stakes of ~80 per cent. A decline 
in the profitability of the Group's 90 per 
cent owned insurance business, UA, also 
contributed to the drop in PAT attributable  
to NCI.
However, the impact was partially offset by 
profitability at Ceylon Cold Stores PLC, which 
also includes the Supermarket business.
PAT Attributable to Equity Holders of 
the Parent (Net Profit)
PAT attributable to equity holders of the Parent 
decreased by 49 per cent to Rs.4.77 billion 
[2019/20: 9.41 billion]. The net profit margin of 
the Group decreased to 3.3 per cent from 6.0 
per cent in the previous year. The recurring net 
profit attributable to equity holders decreased 
by 49 per cent to Rs.4.74 billion [2019/20: 
Rs.9.33 billion], whilst the recurring net profit 
margin of the Group decreased to 3.3 per cent, 
against the 5.9 per cent in 2019/20.
(Rs.mn)
(%)
Net Profit and Net Profit Margin
Net profit
Net profit margin
0
5,000
10,000
15,000
20,000
25,000
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
16,275
21,021
14,254
9,414
4,772
13.6
15.3
9.3
6.0
3.3
FY17
FY18
FY19
FY20
FY21
PAT
Rs.3.95bn 
59%
2019/20: Rs.9.74 bn
PAT EXCL. LEISURE
Rs.11.55bn 
2%
2019/20: Rs.11.29 bn

44   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
Rs.million
2020/21 2019/20
Revenue
1,637
1,462
Dividend income
8,346
6,368
Finance income
4,617
3,822
Finance expenses
(1,245)
(237)
Profit before tax
11,367
9,254
Profit after tax
10,566
8,640
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT REVIEW
FINANCIAL AND MANUFACTURED CAPITAL
 y
The increase in revenue is primarily 
on account of higher commercial 
fees for the data analytics services 
rendered by OCTAVE - the Data 
and Advanced Analytics Centre of 
Excellence of the Group.
 y
Dividend income received from the 
businesses of the Group recorded 
a 31 per cent increase, particularly 
driven by the Ports and Shipping 
sector. Whilst dividends payable in 
March 2020 were deferred at the 
time given the unprecedented 
nature of the COVID-19 pandemic to 
ensure better liquidity positions for 
the businesses, this was subsequently 
up-streamed in 2020/21 upon 
recovery of business performance.
 y
Finance income, which comprises 
of both interest income and 
exchange gains on the Group's USD 
denominated net cash balance, 
recorded an increase of 21 per cent, 
primarily due to an increase in the 
interest income by 62 per cent to 
Rs.2.96 billion compared to Rs.1.83 
billion recorded in the previous year. 
This was mainly on account of an 
increase in cash and cash equivalents 
in lieu of the USD 175 million long-
term loan facility from IFC.
 y
Finance expense, which comprises of 
both interest expense and exchange 
losses on USD denominated net 
borrowings, increased by 425 per 
cent owing to an increase in interest 
expense, due to the aforementioned 
loan facility from IFC and other short-
term facilities and overdrafts.
Group Assets
Group's total assets as at 31 March 2021 stood at Rs.536.79 billion, an increase of Rs.99.85 billion 
[2019/20: Rs.436.94 billion], mainly on account of an increase in cash and short-term investments 
at the Holding Company and an increase in non-current financial assets at UA.
Cash in hand and at bank, short-term investments and deposits with a maturity between 1 and 
3 years held at the Holding Company increased to Rs.105.43 billion [2019/20: Rs.51.79 billion] on 
account of proceeds from the USD 175 million long-term loan facility from IFC at the Holding 
Company.
Assets
Assets
Equity and Liabilities
Equity and Liabilities
(Rs.mn)
(Rs.mn)
(Rs.mn)
(Rs.mn)
Property, plant and equipment, leasehold rentals paid in
advance, investment property and other non-current assets
Investments in subsidiaries, associates and non-current
financial assets
Current assets, deferred tax assets and intangible assets
Shareholders' funds
Non-controlling interests
Non-current liabilities
Current liabilities
FY19
FY20
FY21
FY21
FY20
FY19
363,797
436,944
536,794
536,794
436,944
363,797
203,362
60,355
100,080
125,241
68,408
243,295
273,141
226,157
216,852
204,287
26,072
75,881
57,557
26,872
135,894
57,326
16,830
222,102
71,705
91,220
172,433
Financial Position
USD 175 million long-term financing arrangement with the International Finance 
Corporation (IFC)
In June 2020, the Holding Company entered into a long-term financing agreement with IFC 
for USD 175 million to support funding of the Holding Company's investment pipeline. This 
facility is IFC's largest investment to-date in Sri Lanka.
The key features of the financing facility are as follows:
 y
Rate basis: 6-month LIBOR plus margin of 380 basis points.
 y
Step-down pricing mechanism: A step-down pricing mechanism to a margin of 355 basis 
points by March 2024.
 y
Tenor: Ten-year tenor till June 2030.
 y
Grace period: Four years with capital repayments commencing in December 2024.
 y
Proceeds will primarily be utilised to fund the Group's expansion of its Supermarket 
business, recent investments in hotels in the Maldives and Sri Lanka and for general 
corporate investments.
This facility is envisaged to afford the Group the flexibility and agility to fund its investments 
in an optimal manner whilst providing additional support to the Group's liquidity position 
considering the extended tenor and grace period before capital repayments commence.
Whilst the entirety of the loan was drawn down during the year under review resulting in a 
steep increase in debt at the Holding Company, the loan did not impact net debt since the cash 
balance was also retained at a Holding Company level. The Company also entered into a hedge 
to fix the interest rate, covering USD 158 million of the loan, thereby eliminating a majority of the 
facility's exposure to interest rate fluctuations. At present, there is no foreign exchange translation 
risk on the loan since the cash is retained in foreign currency at the Holding Company.
INSIGHTS
PERFORMANCE OF THE 
HOLDING COMPANY 

45
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
As planned at the outset, the back-ended final payment of the syndicated loan of 'Cinnamon 
Life' falls due in 2022/23 and the Group is already in discussion to refinance a component of 
this loan as per its funding strategy, whilst utilising the proceeds from the sale of apartments 
and cash reserves to settle part of the loan. Given this, a notable increase in current liabilities 
may be witnessed from the third quarter of 2021/22 until such time the new financing 
arrangement is reflected in the financial statements. 
INSIGHTS – LOOKING FORWARD
Working Capital/Liquidity
Rs.million
2020/21
2019/20
%
Current assets
166,491
121,050
38
Current liabilities
71,705
57,326
25
Working capital
94,786
63,724
49
Current Assets: The increase in current assets is primarily driven by an increase in cash and short-
term investments.
Current Liabilities: Current liabilities recorded an increase of 25 per cent, primarily owing to an increase 
in trade and other payables at the Office Automation business due to current import regulations 
which stipulate the need to obtain 180 days of credit and deferred payment terms on a cash-backed 
basis, which was partially offset by a decrease in bank overdrafts in the Supermarket business by 
Rs.4.22 billion due to a re-profiling of the short and long-term debt portfolio.
Cash Flow 
Cash and cash equivalents in the Statement of 
Cash Flows comprise of cash and short-term 
investments with a maturity of three months 
or less, and net of outstanding bank overdrafts. 
On this basis, as at 31 March 2021, cash and 
cash equivalents increased by Rs.24.31 billion, to 
Rs.33.07 billion.
 y
Net cash flow from operating activities 
reflected an inflow of Rs.13.82 billion 
for 2020/21, primarily on account of an 
increase in trade and other payables, other 
non-current liabilities and interest income.
 y
Net cash flow from investment activities 
reflected an outflow of Rs.44.94 billion, 
primarily due to an increase in short-term 
investments with a maturity of more than 
three months, at the Holding Company.
 y
Net cash from financing activities was 
an inflow of Rs.55.43 billion, primarily on 
account of borrowings at the Holding 
Company and at 'Cinnamon Life'.
Leverage and Capital Structure
The ensuing details the sources by which the 
total assets of the Group as at the period end, 
were funded.
ENSURING FINANCIAL RESILIENCE AMIDST COVID-19
Given the unprecedented challenges and operating conditions arising from the COVID-19 
pandemic, in March 2020, Group businesses evaluated the resilience of the businesses under 
multiple scenarios, including extreme operating conditions. The businesses continued to 
proactively evaluate their operational performance and financial health during the year 
under review with many measures implemented from March 2020 onwards. 
 y
Adopted weekly dashboards, which cover financial and non-financial KPIs and revised 
targets, including monitoring of weekly cash and collections targets.
 y
Established 'cash war rooms' and 'spend control towers' to critically review each spend 
item, prioritise payments, and impose clear reporting metrics. Although such initiatives 
were institutionalised primarily in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Group 
continued to implement select measures to ensure an agile, efficient and productive 
business model.
 y
A freeze on all non-essential capital expenditure.
 y
Enforced stringent expense control measures, including a reduction in executive staff 
remuneration ranging from 5 to 60 per cent across the Group. Full remuneration was 
reinstated from July 2020 onwards, in tandem with the recovery in performance.
 y
Where relevant, Group companies applied for relief measures extended by the 
Government and Central Bank which eased the financial position further.
Proactive planning and execution of the aforementioned measures enabled the business in 
better navigating through these unprecedented challenges. 
Refer Outlook for a detailed discussion - page 134 
Shareholder funds
42%
Non-controlling interest
3%
Long-term funding/creditors
41%
Short-term funding/creditors
13%
Funding Channels
Total assets of Rs.536.79 billion as at  
31 March 2021
TOTAL ASSETS
Rs.536.79bn 
23%
2019/20: Rs.436.94 bn

46   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT REVIEW
FINANCIAL AND MANUFACTURED CAPITAL
Group Debt/Net Debt
Group debt (excluding lease liabilities) 
amounted to Rs.147.20 billion compared to 
Rs.79.61 billion in 2019/20, while net debt 
increased to Rs.48.71 billion compared to the 
Rs.34.07 billion in 2019/20.
Although Group debt increased significantly 
to Rs.147.18 billion, the net debt position of 
the Group was Rs.77.16 billion due to the 
significant cash balances held at the Holding 
Company level. This is largely due to the 
impact on Group debt due to the drawdown 
of the IFC loan although there is no impact on 
net debt since the cash balance is retained at 
the Holding Company, as outlined previously.
The increases in Group debt were primarily 
from Other, including Information Technology 
and Plantation Services, Property and Leisure 
industry groups with additions of Rs.44.86 
billion, Rs.17.54 billion and Rs.4.71 billion, 
respectively. The increase in Group debt, 
excluding leases, are mainly attributable to the 
following:
 y
Holding Company - Debt drawdown of 
Rupee and Dollar facilities, in line with the 
planned funding strategy of the Group. This 
includes the full drawdown of the USD 175 
million long-term loan facility from IFC.
 y
Funding of the ongoing construction of 
'Cinnamon Life', resulting in an incremental 
debt drawdown of Rs.17.61 billion during 
the year.
 y
Incremental borrowings of Rs.3.11 billion 
at the Supermarket business, to fund the 
expansion of outlets and the proposed 
distribution centre.
Both Group debt and net debt excludes lease 
liabilities recorded from the adoption of SLFRS 
16 – Leases. Lease liabilities as at 31 March 
2021 stood at Rs.25.71 billion, a 21 per cent 
increase against last year [2019/20: Rs.21.29 
billion].
Where businesses have foreign currency 
denominated income, borrowings in foreign 
currency are obtained to take advantage 
of the comparatively lower cost of foreign 
currency debt. This strategy has been 
practiced in the Leisure industry group, in 
particular, where foreign currency receipts are 
regularly monitored to proactively evaluate 
the borrowing capacity of the business. 
Currently, ~Rs.104.40 billion of overall debt 
is denominated in foreign currency, which 
translates to ~71 per cent of total debt [2019/20: 65 per cent]. It is pertinent to note that the 
exchange rate exposure arising from the 'Cinnamon Life' project is mitigated to an extent as the 
functional currency of Waterfront Properties (Private) Limited, its project company, is USD. Similarly, 
at present, there is no foreign exchange translation risk on the IFC loan since the cash is retained in 
foreign currency at the Holding Company.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Group cash and cash equivalents as at 31 March 2021 stood at Rs.105.43 billion against Rs.51.79 
billion in 2019/20; the increase is on account of the reasons outlined previously under the 'Cash 
Flow' section. Group cash and cash equivalents comprise of Rs.19.43 billion as cash in hand and at 
bank, Rs.69.26 billion under short-term investments, and Rs.16.73 billion in deposits with a maturity 
between 1 and 3 years held at the Holding Company. It is pertinent to note that of this, the life fund 
at UA amounts to Rs.3.47 billion whilst the restricted regulatory fund at UA amounts to Rs.3.38 billion. 
In terms of the composition of the liquid assets of the Group, Other, including Information 
Technology and Plantation Services accounted for 67 per cent of cash and cash equivalents, of which 
a majority of assets are in the Holding Company, followed by the Financial Services industry group.
2020/21
2019/20
Current ratio 
(times)
 2.3 
 2.1 
Quick ratio 
(times)
 1.6 
 1.2 
Working capital 
(Rs.million)
 94,786 
 63,724 
Asset turnover 
(times)
 0.3 
 0.4 
Capital employed 
(Rs.million)
 415,891 
 344,631 
Total debt* 
(Rs.million)
 147,197 
 79,615 
Net debt (cash)* 
(Rs.million)
48,709
 34,075 
Debt / equity ratio* 
(%)
 60.6 
 32.7 
Net debt (cash) to equity ratio* 
(%)
20.0
 14.0 
Long-term debt to total debt* 
(%)
 80.8 
 64.0 
Debt / total assets* 
(%)
 27.4 
 18.2 
Liabilities to tangible net worth 
(times)
 1.24 
 0.81 
Debt / EBITDA* 
(times)
 9.4 
 3.9 
Net debt / EBITDA* 
(times)
 3.1 
 1.7 
*Excludes lease liabilities.
Key indicators such as the net debt/equity ratio indicate the Group's ability to fund its investment 
pipeline, as and when required. While the debt and net debt/EBITDA ratios have deteriorated, it 
should be noted this is largely due to the impact on EBITDA due to the pandemic and this should 
revert to normalised levels as the recovery momentum on earnings continue. 
It should be noted that a portion of the cash reserves of the Group is earmarked for equity 
commitments of the 'Cinnamon Life' project, including re-financing of the loan, and other 
investments such as the West Container Terminal project. The Group is confident of its ability 
to fund projects, if feasible, and as required, thereby optimising equity returns in the long run. 
Although the current liquidity position of the Group creates space to undertake current and 
future investment commitments, the Group will continue to take proactive steps with a view 
of maintaining a strong balance sheet, particularly considering the volatile macroeconomic 
environment due to the ongoing pandemic.
Statement of Changes in Equity
Total equity of the Group as at 31 March 2021 stood at Rs.242.99 billion, [2019/20: Rs.243.72 billion]. 
The decrease was primarily in lieu of a decrease in NCI during the year on account of an increase 
in the Group stake at Vauxhall Land Developments Private Limited, although partially offset by a 
profit after tax of Rs.3.95 billion and other comprehensive income of Rs.6.34 billion.
For a discussion on the ROCE and ROE of the Group, refer Strategy, Resource Allocation and Portfolio 
Management - page 149 

47
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
The Group strongly believes that a sound Natural Capital management strategy is a vital component of long-term sustainable value creation. As such, 
the Group has in place a comprehensive environmental management system which focuses on energy conservation, carbon footprint reduction, 
optimisation of water usage, efficient waste management and conservation of biodiversity, as discussed in detail in the ensuing sections.
NATURAL CAPITAL
Priority SDGs under Natural Capital
Related SDG focus areas the Group is  
working towards:
Key highlights for the year:
7.  AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY
Continuing to increase the amount of renewable energy 
utilised and generated in the Group's energy mix.
19% of the Group's 
energy is from renewable 
sources.
1,113 GJ of energy saved 
through energy efficiency 
and other initiatives at 
businesses.
28% of treated water 
is recycled and reused 
to minimise freshwater 
extraction.
John Keells Foundation 
in collaboration with Ruk 
Rakaganno will embark 
on a four year project 
to reforest 20 hectares 
of degraded land in the 
Sinharaja forest.
Reduction of 6,269 MT in 
carbon footprint through 
energy saving initiatives.
12. RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND 
PRODUCTION
Conserving energy by adopting lean energy 
management practices and efficient alternatives.
Optimising water usage by implementing process 
efficiency improvements and awareness creation.
Promoting reuse and recycling of waste alongside 
responsible waste disposal.
13. CLIMATE ACTION
Monitoring and managing the Group's carbon 
footprint and adopting alternatives to fossil fuel 
where possible. 
14. LIFE BELOW WATER
Conservation of biodiversity and preservation of 
marine habitats. 
15. LIFE ON LAND
Conservation of biodiversity and sustainable use of 
natural resources. 
Note: Lockdowns, lower levels of operational activity in select sectors and remote working arrangements on the back 
of the COVID-19 pandemic, distort reporting metrics for 2020/21 in varying degrees. Readers are advised to read the 
quantified numbers in conjunction with disclosures alongside, as applicable.
Three-year performance indicators:
2020/21
2019/20*
2018/19
Energy consumption: non-renewable sources (GJ) 1
216,253 
 298,146
367,016
Energy consumption: non-renewable sources (GJ) per  
Rs.million of revenue
1.70
 2.13
2.68
Energy consumption: renewable sources (GJ) 2
132,706
 119,387
105,952
Energy consumption: renewable sources (GJ) per Rs.million 
of revenue
1.04
 0.85
0.77
Purchased energy: national grid 3
349,195
 393,893
376,013
Purchased energy: national grid (GJ) per Rs.million of revenue
2.75
 2.82
2.75
Total energy consumption (1) + (2) + (3)
698,154
811,426
848,931
Direct greenhouse gas emissions - Scope 1 (MT)
15,894 
 22,244
27,510
Indirect greenhouse gas emissions - Scope 2 (MT) 
66,114
 74,577
71,192
Total carbon footprint (MT)
82,009 
 96,821
98,695
Total carbon footprint (MT) per Rs.million of revenue
0.64
 0.69
0.72
Greenhouse gas emissions from combustion of biomass
10,535
 9,792
10,107
Water withdrawal (m3)
1,677,672
 1,896,084
1,798,465
Water withdrawal (m3) per Rs.million of revenue
13.19
 13.57
13.14
Water discharge (m3)
1,091,384
 1,155,698
1,137,386
Volume of hazardous waste generated (MT)
279
 298
382
Volume of non-hazardous waste generated (MT)
6,484
 7,462
7,925
Non-hazardous waste recycled/reused by Group companies 
and through 3rd party contractors (%)
22
 37
46
Significant environmental fines
Nil
 Nil
Nil
* 2019/20 has been restated
2025 SUSTAINABILITY GOALS
As noted in the JKH Annual Report 
2019/20, the Group has further 
strengthened its commitments to its 
Natural Capital management strategy by 
establishing a new set of sustainability 
goals, in furtherance of the previous 
2020 Sustainability Goals, to be achieved 
by 2025. These new goals, which are 
established at either business unit or 
sector level, have been extended to 
include contemporary environmental 
issues concerning renewable energy and 
plastic reduction in additions to energy 
and water related initiatives. This exercise, 
particularly focused on sectors which 
account for the highest level of natural 
resource usage, was expanded to include 
new companies this year.
Energy and Carbon Footprint
During the year under review, the total energy 
consumption of the Group was 698,154 GJ 
[2019/20: 811,426 GJ] which was derived from 
non-renewable sources such as diesel, petrol, 
furnace oil, LPG and jet fuel, renewable energy 
sources and the national grid. The notable 
reduction in energy consumption during the 
year under review was primarily driven by 
lower levels of operational activity, particularly 
in the Leisure and Transportation industry 
groups due to the impact of COVID-19. 
The Group has in place a 
comprehensive environmental 
management system 
which focuses on energy 
conservation, carbon footprint 
reduction, optimisation 
of water usage, efficient 
waste management and 
conservation of biodiversity.

48   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT REVIEW
NATURAL CAPITAL
Group companies saved ~ 1,113 GJ, 
through various energy conservation 
initiatives.
Further details on these initiatives are found in the Industry Group Review section of the  
Report - page 66 
As depicted below, the Leisure, Consumer Foods and Retail industry groups were the largest 
consumers of energy, accounting for over 90 per cent of the energy consumed and 91 per cent of 
the carbon footprint of the Group.
Similar to the previous year, the main 
contributor to the Group's carbon footprint 
was electricity from the national grid, followed 
by diesel, furnace oil, LPG, petrol and jet fuel. 
Given that Sri Lanka's national grid is hydro-
power based, the resultant carbon footprint 
is lower in contrast to countries producing 
power exclusively through fossil fuels.
The carbon footprint per Rs.million of 
revenue is on a declining trend, signifying 
the Group's commitment towards reducing 
its carbon footprint.
Renewable energy usage 
of Group energy usage 
132,706 GJ  
19%
2019/20: 119,387 GJ
2019/20: 15%
Contributed towards:
in carbon footprint
15%
The Group continues to increase investments in 
solar energy.
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
Energy Consumption by Industry Group  
Energy Consumption by Industry Group  
(GJ ’000)
(GJ ’000)
Transportation 
FY19
Leisure
Retail
Consumer Foods
Property
Financial Services
FY20
FY21
Other, incl.
Information
Technology
& Plantation Services 
14
81
1 1 3
(%)
Carbon Footprint by Energy Type
LPG 
Petrol 
Furnace oil 
Diesel 
Jet fuel 
Electricity 
(MT CO2 eq)
FY17
FY18
FY19
FY20
FY21
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
6,269 MT
2020/21:
2019/20: 7,419 MT
Carbon footprint reduction 
from renewable energy 
and initiatives
(GJ)
Renewable Energy through Solar Power 
Plantation
Services
Consumer
Foods
Leisure
Retail
0
5,000
10,000
15,000
20,000
25,000
30,000
35,000
2019/20
2020/21
Notwithstanding the impacts from the COVID-19 pandemic, the Group continued to place 
emphasis on replacing its national grid and non-renewable energy with renewable energy usage, 
thereby reducing the impact on the Group's carbon footprint. To this end, significant investment in 
solar energy was made by the Supermarket business, with 10 outlets installing solar panels during 
the year, bringing the total number of solar powered outlets to 66. The Consumer Foods industry 
group also undertook investments in solar energy at its factories.
Tea Smallholder Factories PLC (TSF) fulfilled 69 per cent of its energy requirement through 
renewable energy sources, such as biomass purchased from surrounding communities, thereby 
contributing to only 2 per cent of the Group's carbon footprint. Such practices enable the Group to 
reduce its environmental impact and operational costs, whilst also providing means of livelihood 
for surrounding communities.
ENERGY CONSERVATION EFFORTS

49
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
As a part of the ongoing environmental 
sustainability drive, 119 kumbuk saplings 
were distributed free-of-charge among 
Group employees. The survival rates and 
growth of these plants are monitored 
through a digital application. This was 
initiated by an employee at 'Cinnamon 
Lakeside Colombo' who extracted 
saplings from a tree at the hotel premises. 
This project is a testament to Group 
employees' passion and enthusiasm 
towards environmental conservation.
ADOPT A TREE PROJECT
Water Management
The Group continues to monitor and 
measure usage from all sources such as 
ground water, inland surface water bodies, 
oceans, and pipe-borne water from the 
National Water Supply and Drainage Board. 
All water withdrawn by the Group is from 
non-water stressed areas.  
The Group seeks to fulfil part of its water requirement from green water sources through rainwater 
harvesting and reuse of treated water, where feasible. Given the nature of operations, the Leisure, 
Consumer Foods, Retail and Property industry groups account for the highest proportion of water 
consumed, with over 90 per cent of the Group's water consumed.
The breakdown of Group water usage is further classified based on fresh water (less than 1,000 
total dissolved solids) and other water usage (more than 1,000 total dissolved solids) as shown 
below.
Water withdrawn
Contributed 
towards:
reduction 
in water 
withdrawn
of water treated
of treated water is recycled 
1,677,672 m3  
33%
28%
12%
2019/20: 1,896,084m3
Effluent Treatment Plant at 'Cinnamon Citadel Kandy'.
0
200
400
600
800
1,000
Water Withdrawn by Industry Group
Water Withdrawn by Industry Group
(m3 000)
(m3 000)
Transportation 
Leisure
Retail
Consumer Foods
Property
Financial Services
Other, incl.
Information
Technology
& Plantation Services 
FY19
FY20
FY21
10.0
31.4
43.1
(%)
Water Withdrawal by Source
15.5
Surface water  
Ground water 
Sea water 
Third party water -
municipality
(m3 000)
Water Withdrawn by Category
Surface
water
Ground
water
Sea
water
Third party
water
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
Fresh water  
Other water

50   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT REVIEW
NATURAL CAPITAL
The Group reported a reduction in 
water usage per Rs.million of revenue.
Where feasible, the Group makes concerted 
efforts to reduce its water requirement by 
recycling treated effluent and bringing it to 
stipulated levels for reuse. The Group ensures 
compliance with regulatory standards, as per 
relevant Environmental Protection Licenses (EPL) 
when returning such water to the environment.
During the period under review, the Group 
discharged 1,091,384 cubic meters of 
effluent, all of which were discharged to 
non-water stressed areas and categorised as 
fresh water (less than 1,000 total dissolved 
solids). 33 per cent of the water was treated 
through on-site sewage treatment plants at 
various operational locations prior to being 
discharged, whilst 28 per cent of treated water 
was completely recycled. Such water was 
utilised for general cleaning and gardening.
A detailed discussion of water withdrawal and 
discharge by industry group, as well as water 
saving initiatives and water reduction goals 
committed to be achieved by 2025, can be found 
in the Industry Group Review section of the 
Report - page 66 
Further details of how such waste was disposed of, reused and recycled are available in the Industry Group 
Review section of the Report along with the plastic reduction and landfill waste reduction goals set by select 
businesses for 2025 - page 66 
Waste Management
Total waste generated by the Group recorded a decline primarily due to the lower levels of activity 
in the Leisure industry group. Of the total waste generated, 279 MT was classified as hazardous 
waste and disposed of through specialised third-party contractors. 22 per cent of the non-
hazardous waste generated was recycled or reused by the Group's business units through selected 
third-party contractors. The Leisure, Consumer Foods and Retail industry groups accounted for 
over 90 per cent of the waste generated by the Group.
(m3)
0
5
10
15
20
FY17
FY18
FY19
FY20
FY21
10.7
30.7
40.7
(%)
Water Discharge by Method
17.0
0.9
Discharged to surface water
Discharged to ground water
Discharged to sea
Discharged to third party: municipality
Discharged to third party: provided to another organisation
0
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500
3,000
3,500
Waste Generated by Industry Group 
Waste Generated by Industry Group 
(kg '000)
(kg '000)
Transportation 
Leisure
Retail
Consumer Foods
Property
Financial Services
Other, incl.
Information
Technology
& Plantation Services 
FY19
FY20
FY21
11.3
7.7
0.2
14.1
5.1
61.6
(%)
Non-hazardous Waste Disposal by Method
Reuse
Recycling
Composting
Recovery
Incineration
Deep well injection
Landfill
25.4
2.2
3.4
0.2
0.6
2.0
2.7
63.5
(%)
Waste by Composition 
Organic
Paper/carboard
Plastic/ polythene
E-waste
Hazardous metal  
Non-hazardous metal 
Glass/ceramic 
Other hazardous 
Other non-hazardous
Continued efforts towards waste reduction 
and lower operational activity due to 
COVID-19 restrictions saw waste generated 
per Rs.million of revenue declining. 
(MT)
0.00
0.02
0.04
0.06
0.08
0.10
FY17
FY18
FY19
FY20
FY21
Biogas digester used to generate energy from 
food waste.
* All hazardous waste generated was disposed through 
recycling.

51
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
Waste generated 
of waste recycled or used
'Plasticcycle' bins island-wide
6,763 MT  
22%
259
2019/20: 7,760 MT
'PLASTICCYCLE' SOCIAL ENTREPRENEURSHIP INITIATIVE
The Group's Social Entrepreneurship Project – 'Plasticcycle' remains committed to its vision 
of being a catalyst in significantly reducing plastic pollution in Sri Lanka. 'Plasticcycle' aims to 
drive change through three key areas of focus - creating awareness, supporting responsible 
disposal and promoting recycling. 
Creating awareness in a post COVID-19 world
In response to an unprecedented increase in the consumption of single-use plastic, driven 
by an adoption of various health and safety measures in light of COVID-19, 'Plasticcycle' 
focused on various digital initiatives concentrated on creating awareness on sustainable 
disposal of plastic waste. To this end: 
 y
Commuters entering the Outer Circular Highway and Southern Expressway were 
encouraged to drop off their waste in any of the 'Plasticcycle' bins placed at the exits.
 y
Customised webinars and videos featuring renowned industry experts were made 
available to school children through social media platforms.
 y
'Code Green-Agent of Change' was launched across the Group to encourage employees 
and their families to practice responsible disposal of plastics through the use of 'eco-
bricks' and other recycling techniques. 421 eco-bricks and 163 kg of recyclable plastic 
waste was collected and handed over to recyclers through this initiative.
Supporting responsible disposal
 y
Entered into a partnership with Hemas Manufacturing Private Limited to place 30 large 
'Plasticcycle' bins across the Colombo District.
 y
47 bins were placed at the Southern Expressway exit points, in collaboration with 
'Cinnamon Wild Yala' and Ceylon Cold Stores PLC, increasing the total number of bins 
placed across the country to 259 bins.
Promoting recycling initiatives
 y
Staff volunteers participated in the 'National Beach Cleanup' organised by the Marine 
Environmental Protection Authority (MEPA) to commemorate International Coastal 
Cleanup Day. Over 150 kg of plastic was collected and recycled.
 y
The 'Beach Caretaker Project', a collaboration with MEPA, was extended to 'Cinnamon Bey 
Beruwala'. This project aims to maintain a pollution-free stretch of beach along the resort coast.  
 y
Entered into a tripartite agreement with Ceylon Cold Stores, and 'Zerotrash' to establish 
a more efficient and effective plastic waste collection mechanism. Primarily focused on 
the Colombo district, this entails the construction of a sorting centre which is due to 
commence construction in May 2021.
Over 250 collection points island-wide
since its inception in 2017/18
~330,00 PET bottles  
(~11 MT of recyclable plastic waste) 
collected in 2020/21
CSR Environmental Initiatives
Given the Group's commitment to conserving 
the environment for future generations, the 
Group makes a conscious and collective effort 
to protect and promote environmental and 
biodiversity conservation through its social 
responsibility entity, John Keells Foundation 
(JKF). The following are key projects 
undertaken by JKF.
CSR FOCUS AREA - ENVIRONMENT
www.johnkeellsfoundation.com
Nature Field Centre, Rumassala 
The Nature Field Centre was closed for visitors 
until December 2020, due to restrictions 
pertaining to the COVID-19 pandemic. Upon 
easing of such restrictions, 4 programmes 
were conducted benefiting 217 visitors. In 
order to sustain operations and promote the 
Centre, JKF in collaboration with the Central 
Environmental Authority (CEA) initiated work 
on a promotional-cum-awareness video. 
ZERO WASTE DAY
This initiative, which is aimed at 
discouraging employees from bringing 
single-use plastic to work, was continued 
with a renewed emphasis to reduce waste 
streams amongst employees working 
remotely. Suggestions to minimise waste 
at home, information on alternatives and 
facts relating to waste and best practices 
were communicated to employees via 
online platforms.

52   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT REVIEW
NATURAL CAPITAL
IMPACT DURING 2020/21
Direct impact: 18,899 kg of wastepaper 
collected for recycling and a monetary 
benefit of Rs.151,192
Indirect impact (reported saving) of:
 y
321 Trees
 y
600,610 litres of Water
 y
75,596 kWh of Electricity
 y
33,168 litres of Oil
 y
57 m3 of Landfill
JKF initiated a four-year collaboration 
with Ruk Rakaganno (The Tree Society 
of Sri Lanka) in its undertaking with the 
Department of Forest Conservation to 
support the restoration of 20 hectares 
of identified forest land (Suduwalipotha 
Forest) in the Ratnapura District that will 
mimic the adjoining Sinharaja forest, the 
largest lowland rainforest in Sri Lanka and 
a biodiversity hotspot that is designated 
a World Heritage Site by UNESCO. The 
following activities were conducted 
during the reporting period:
 y
A Baseline Ecological Assessment of 
the site by an expert team to facilitate 
the purchase of field equipment and 
plants and to commence clearing the 
land.
 y
 A joint field visit with representatives 
from Ruk Rakaganno and 'Cinnamon 
Nature Trails' to assess the need for 
a Baseline Biodiversity Survey. At the 
visit, relevant personnel engaged 
with the local community on tools 
and supply of plants, whilst a list of 
plants available at the nurseries was 
earmarked for the project.
HUMAN CAPITAL
The Group recognises the vital importance of its employees as a core business asset, and hence, the 
Group's management philosophy seeks to maximise value by cultivating engagement, improved 
productivity, high calibre talent attraction, retention and employee satisfaction. The Group's 
management systems and processes aim at ensuring a safe working environment with an emphasis 
on excellence, innovation and mutually beneficial outcomes to both employees and the Group.
Priority SDGs under Human Capital
Related SDG focus areas the Group is  
working towards:
Key highlights for the year:
4.  QUALITY EDUCATION
  
Continuous investment in employees 
through learning, development, skill, and 
capacity building.
Shift towards learning through 
online and digital learning platforms 
which facilitated the 'work from 
home' arrangements during the 
COVID-19 pandemic. 
Goal to increase female 
participation to 40% by 2025/26.
The Gender Policy, Agile 
Working Policy, Talent 
Management Policy and a 
Group-wide Mentoring Policy 
were formalised during the year.
Health and safety of all internal and 
external stakeholders associated 
with our operations took 
precedence amidst the outbreak 
of the COVID-19 pandemic and 
stringent procedures were adopted 
at all companies.
5.  GENDER EQUALITY
 
Prioritise gender equity and increase 
female participation and opportunities for 
leadership. 
8.   DECENT WORK AND 
ECONOMIC GROWTH
 
Provision of a safe and healthy work 
environment for all employees. 
10. REDUCED INEQUALITIES
 
The Group is an equal opportunity 
employer and does not tolerate 
discrimination of any form. 
Three-year performance indicators:
2020/21
2019/20
2018/19
Total workforce (employees and contractors' staff)
20,092
20,578 
20,765
Employees*
13,889
14,359
13,923
Outsourced personnel (neither staff employees nor 
seasonal workers)
6,203
6,219
6,842
Employee benefit liability as of 31 March (Rs.million)
2,330
2,344 
2,086
Total attrition (%)
18
23 
24
New hires (%)
47
65
63
Number of injuries
83
118
202
Number of people educated on serious diseases
Not 
conducted 
this year
29,630
63,931
Average hours of training per employee
23
44
45
No. of employees receiving performance reviews (%)
100
100
100
Incidences of child labour (below age 16)
0
0
0
Incidents of forced labour during the year
0
0
0
*Of the Group's total employees, 604 are placed in the Maldives, with the remainder domiciled in Sri Lanka
Paper Conservation 
The Group continued with its long-standing 
initiative to responsibly recycle wastepaper 
collected from its businesses. 
FAUNA AND FLORA 
CONSERVATION

53
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
COVID-19 RESPONSE AND AGILE WORKING ARRANGEMENTS
The onset of the COVID-19 pandemic presented numerous challenges concerning business 
continuity as organisations were placed in an unprecedented and volatile situation 
consequent to the imposition of lockdowns. To address this, the Group developed an 
agile working response which helped sustain productivity levels whilst minimising risks of 
community spread. 
Key measures include:
 y
A new work arrangement protocol centred around business continuity and safety of 
both employees and community was established to serve as guidance for all Group 
companies. This included agile working guidelines, renewed processes for approval and 
safety measures to be followed. 
 y
Continuous communication updates surrounding key developments and policy changes 
to stakeholders by the senior leadership.
 y
As part of the COVID-19 Business Continuity Plan, all job roles were scrutinised to 
determine the extent of agility presented by each role and steps were taken to facilitate 
necessary work arrangements to warrant business continuity.
 y
A multitude of virtual engagement initiatives, particularly focused on mental health were 
launched throughout the year.
Employee Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
The Group is committed to cultivating a diverse, equitable and inclusive workplace which 
provides all employees a common platform and equal opportunity. Mutual respect and dignity are 
fundamental beliefs that underlie the Group's human resources philosophy and this is formalised 
through the Group's Code of Conduct, non-discrimination and equal opportunity policies, which 
commit to maintaining an inclusive workplace where people can do their best work. All employees 
are responsible for treating their fellow colleagues with respect regardless of any differences, 
supported through a Group-wide culture of tolerance and open communication.
During the year under review, the Group concluded its committed initiatives under the 
International Finance Corporation's (IFC) 'SheWorks' Sri Lanka partnership, which focused on 
implementing gender smart solutions with the objective of increasing female participation in the 
workforce. Continuing from this momentum, the Group also joined 'Target Gender Equality', the 
UN Global Compact's accelerated programme towards increasing women's representation and 
leadership in business not only in the workplace but also in our value-chain and community. 
On International Women's Day, the Group announced its commitment to increase female 
participation in the employee cadre to 40 per cent by FY2026, as a step towards achieving gender 
parity in the workforce. The Group also instituted a Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DE&I) team 
towards increasing the diversity of our workforce and making are workplaces more inclusive and 
launched the 'ONE JKH' brand in September 2020 to consolidate its efforts towards diversity and 
inclusion and to increase the diversity metrics across the organisation. Some key initiatives in DE&I 
include employer supported childcare, increasing women in non-non-traditional roles, women 
centric training and launching of the Group Policy. 
Primary research indicates that the adoption of an agile workplace policy has resulted in an 
improved work-life balance and will encourage stay-at-home mothers and persons with disability 
to participate in the JKH workforce. 
The Group also supported the efforts of the 'National Transgender Network' and 'The Grassrooted 
Trust' in rolling out a research study to understand the readiness of employers to recruit 
transgender individuals at any level or function and the perception of employees towards 
transgender colleagues. The Gender Policy was also formalised during the year under review.
The Group is committed to increasing the number of 
women in senior leadership roles.
DIVERSITY GOAL
 y
Goal to increase female participation 
to 40% by 2025/26
'ONE JKH' emphasises our Group's 
approach towards valuing diversity in our 
workforce and that Life at JKH is inclusive. 
Irrespective of our race, religion, gender 
identity, sexual orientation, age, and 
ability, at JKH, we are ONE.
The colours used in the logo represent:
Gender Parity | Differently Abled | LGBTIQ
To visually consolidate the Group's 
efforts towards diversity, equity and 
inclusion, the brand 'ONE JKH' was 
launched in September 2020. The 
logo is now incorporated into vacancy 
advertisements to reinforce the Group's 
position on non-discrimination and 
equal opportunity.
This year, the Group joined 
'Target Gender Equality', 
the UN Global Compact's 
accelerated programme 
towards increasing women's 
representation and leadership 
in business.

54   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT REVIEW
HUMAN CAPITAL
Diversity indicators such as gender and age are monitored on an ongoing basis across the Group. 
COMPOSITION OF KEY MANAGEMENT COMMITTEES
7 member Board of Directors
 y
2 members are between the ages of 30-50 whilst 5 members are over the age of 50
 y
1 female director
6 Group Executive Committee (GEC) members (includes 2 Executive Directors)
 y
1 member is over 50 years whilst 5 members are between the ages of 30-50 years
 y
1 female member
13 Group Operating Committee (GOC) members (excluding GEC members)
 y
11 members are between the ages of 30-50 whilst 2 members are over the age of 50
 y
4 female members
Talent management within the Group is 
reinforced through the functionalities of its 
IT platforms. The HRIS is a contemporary 
system which offers managers the tools to 
efficiently hire, manage, develop and retain 
talented employees. The talent management 
module assists with identifying talent pools, 
critical roles and facilitates effective succession 
planning. Moreover, the Internal Job Posting 
Programme provides the Group with an 
opportunity to utilise its workforce more 
effectively by facilitating employee mobility 
across the Group.
0
20
40
60
80
100
Workforce by type of employment
Employees under 30 by gender
Employees under 25 by gender
Total employees by age
30 to 50: 39
< 30: 54
Female: 30
> 50: 7
Male: 70
Female: 42
Male: 58
Contract Employees: 27
Permanent Employees: 42
Contractors’  Personnel: 31
Talent Management 
The Group understands the importance of developing, engaging and retaining high performing 
employees in improving business performance. To this end, the Group's talent management 
strategy aims to improve the overall employee experience by advocating continuous engagement 
through multiple channels and interventions. Following the feedback received from several 
employee engagement initiatives, the Group embarked on a set of action plans and policy 
changes as detailed below.
 y
In a bid to cultivate a culture of recognition and appreciation, awareness programmes and 
training sessions were carried out for all People Managers on the Human Resource Information 
System (HRIS) which could be used to award badges of appreciation to hardworking employees, 
provide continuous feedback on employee performance and encourage feedback from peers. 
 y
Introduction of a parental insurance cover to all employees of the Group.
 y
Leveraging on the scale of its workforce, the Group is currently in negotiation with vendors 
to offer its employees discounted terms across a vast range of products and services that are 
consumed on a day-to-day basis. 
 y
The Group in liaison with an international human resources consulting firm is currently in the 
process of conducting a comprehensive review of its entire human resources cycle and related 
policies in a bid to align its current human resource policies with global best practice.
Maternity leave and Paternity leave 
were increased to one hundred days 
and five days respectively. 
An additional seven days of sick leave 
and adoption leave were introduced 
in order to improve the retention of 
talent, maintain productivity and boost 
employee morale.
After its launch in 2019, the Group 
completed a full cycle of all modules by 
July 2020. During this period the Group 
experienced the following benefits:
 y
32 core HR processes in two sectors 
were outsourced to Shared Services 
and set the stage for a Group-wide 
roll out.
 y
Improved visibility on performance, 
employer expectations and 
employee progression has led 
to greater connectivity between 
supervisors and their teams, which 
has assisted in adopting agile work 
practices seamlessly across the 
Group.
 y
The ability to monitor future 
aspirations and interests of 
employees has benefited employers 
and employees alike in determining 
the best course of progression 
within the Group.
HUMAN RESOURCE 
INFORMATION SYSTEM
Middle management by gender
Contractors’ personnel by gender
Workforce by gender
Total employees by gender
Female:16
Male: 84
Male: 66
Male: 69
Male: 70
Female: 31
Female: 30
Female: 34
Group Gender Diversity
(%)
Group Diversity by Age and Type of Employment
(%)

55
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
The Group continued its employer branding 
strategies during the year and was actively 
involved in numerous virtual programmes 
organised by local universities.
 y
As an active partner of the annual career 
fair, 'Are You Ready?' organised by the 
University of Moratuwa, the Group 
facilitated a webinar, resumé centre and 
virtual interviews for final year students.
 y
Participated in virtual career fairs and panel 
discussions organised by select national 
universities and other private institutions. 
 y
OCTAVE, the Group's Centre of Excellence 
for Data and Advanced Analytics, was the 
sole sponsor of Data Storm 1.0, a two-day 
Advanced Analytics competition aimed at 
pioneering curiosity in Data and Advanced 
Analytics among innovative youth.
 y
Conducted a virtual workshop aimed at 
equipping school leavers with the skills and 
attitude required to overcome challenges 
in a workplace. 
The Group's Management Trainee programme, 
which was due to complete its fourteenth 
year, and the 'FastTrack' summer internship 
programme were postponed to the next 
financial year on the back of the COVID-19 
pandemic.
The Group closely monitors attrition which 
includes resignations and vacation of posts, 
with a particular focus on addressing attrition 
in sectors such as Information Technology and 
Supermarkets, which inherently experience 
higher staff turnover levels in comparison to 
other sectors. During the year under review, 
excluding Information Technology and 
Supermarkets, the Group's attrition rate was 
18 per cent [2019/20: 23 per cent] and new 
hire attrition rate was 4 per cent [2019/20: 4 
per cent]. Attrition amongst staff identified as 
'Talent' has been negligible, due to the added 
emphasis by senior management to their 
overall development. Executive level attrition 
has typically remained lower than non-
executive level attrition.
Learning and Development 
Emphasis on continuous learning and development contributes towards nurturing talent that 
drives innovation and is able to adapt swiftly. In furtherance of the Group's future-focused learning 
strategy, the Group has been transforming its learning environment to one which is more learner-
centric and digitally robust in the past few years. Owing to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Group 
further augmented this transformation by establishing remote working practices across the Group, 
where applicable. 
 y
23 hours of training per employee.
 y
Adapted to the evolving environment 
through remote learning, e-modules, 
knowledge sharing series, learning 
competitions, leadership development, 
access to e-books. 
Employees participating in an onsite training programme.
0
20
40
60
80
100
Attrition by age 
Attrition by region
Attrition by gender
< 30: 84
Local: 98
Male: 58
 30 to 50 : 14
Group Total Attrition
Group Total Attrition
> 50 : 2
Foreign: 2
Female: 42
(%)
(%)
0
20
40
60
80
100
Attrition by age 
Attrition by region
Attrition by gender
< 30: 90
Local: 98
Male: 60
 30 to 50 : 9
Group New Hire Attrition
Group New Hire Attrition
> 50 : 1
Foreign: 2
Female: 40
(%)
(%)
Detailed discussions of business-specific 
initiatives aimed at attracting and retaining 
employees is found in the Industry Group Review 
section of the Report - page 66 
Training
2020/21
2019/20
Total training hours
315,547
629,844
Training hours per female employee
23
35
Training hours per male employee
23
48
Whilst the recurrent closures due to the COVID-19 pandemic and resultant health and safety 
considerations impacted the number of on-site and in-person trainings that could be held, sectors 
with established e-learning ecosystems took forefront in migrating to online platforms to execute 
learning initiatives. 
While there were challenges faced with respect to access to online forms of learning for certain 
businesses, the Retail and Financial Services industry groups saw a significant increase in online 
learning with the development of new e-learning content, and the migration of all classroom-
based training to online platforms. Further, the Consumer Foods industry group consolidated its 
e-learning journey by pushing the development of key sales related training content through 
the learning management system (LMS) and online channels, whilst the Leisure industry group 
expedited plans to develop a customised LMS for 'Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts'. 

56   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT REVIEW
HUMAN CAPITAL
Centre-driven learning initiatives which previously included a significant number of classroom-
based training programmes to cater to the diverse learner pool, were migrated to online channels 
in synchronous and asynchronous formats as mentioned below.
 y
Topical e-modules relating to health and safety guidelines and 'work from home' protocols 
were developed for Group-wide dissemination, whilst general awareness sessions on physical 
and psychological well-being and managing remote-working were facilitated through internal 
and external resources. 
 y
Knowledge sharing series and micro-learning modules such as 'Pass it On' and 'The Learning 
Reel' and learning competitions such as 'Create' and 'The Quizathon' leveraged the concept of 
social learning and were introduced to engage with learners working remotely. 
 y
The 'Masterclass' series enhanced internal faculty-led learning programmes.
 y
A JKH Speakers' Club, was established. 
 y
Leadership development took place, as 100 mid-senior managers from across the Group 
underwent the 'McKinsey Management Programme', deployed online over a period of four 
months, spanning topics such as problem solving, communication, and teamwork.
 y
A pilot project was launched with a global provider of e-books and audio books. 
 y
Leveraging on its existing relationships with world renowned education providers, customised 
learning courses were made available to help adapt to the changing work environment. 
Aside from these new learning initiatives, Group inductions, competency-based programmes, 
development centres and new manager development programmes were deployed predominantly 
through online media. At a policy level, the Agile Working Policy, Talent Management Policy and a 
Group-wide Mentoring Policy was formalised during the year. 
Performance Appraisals and 
Recognition
The Group's performance cycle enables the 
identification of high performers and setting 
succession plans while simultaneously 
providing development and training to 
employees requiring support. In addition to 
the bi-annual formal feedback sessions of 
the Group's performance cycle, continuous 
performance management (CPM) was 
introduced as a result of the HRIS's 
performance features. This process enables 
supervisors and their teams to convert their 
objectives into activities and record progress 
and feedback on a continuous basis. Further, 
the cloud-based HRIS system enabled all 
performance appraisals and Career Committee 
reviews to be done remotely during the 
agile working arrangement period, given 
restrictions placed on operations due to the 
COVID-19 pandemic. 
The Group drives a high-performance culture, 
and a number of employee recognition 
schemes are available at both Group and 
business level to ensure that all employees 
feel appreciated, encouraged and recognised. 
Special budgetary allocations are made 
available every year for this purpose, with 
awards for innovation, disruptive digitalisation, 
sustainability and CSR volunteerism also 
included in the Group's recognition scheme. 
Online recognition tools such as 'Badges' 
are available on the HRIS for employees to 
recognise and appreciate their colleagues for 
displaying Group Values, going the extra mile, 
for outstanding work and great teamwork, 
which are, in turn, recorded on employee 
profiles and linked to their performance 
appraisal. Continuous feedback is made 
available for employees to give and receive 
feedback from their colleagues which is shown 
in the performance management portal on 
the HRIS.
Topical e-modules relating to 
health and safety guidelines 
and 'work from home' 
protocols were developed for 
Group-wide dissemination, 
whilst general awareness 
sessions on physical and 
psychological well-being 
were conducted.
Awareness sessions conducted on COIVD-19 safety guidelines.
Detailed discussions of business-specific training initiatives for employees are found in the Industry Group 
Review section of the Report - page 66 
(Hours)
Total Training Provided
AVP & above
Managers
Asst. managers
Executives
Non executives
0
50,000
100,000
150,000
200,000
250,000
300,000
379
2,783
6,055
24,820
281,510

57
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
Health and Safety 
The Group places utmost priority in ensuring that it is a safe place to work and to this end, robust 
management systems are in place to ensure a safe working environment on an ongoing basis. 
This entails gathering data on cause of injury, most common types of injuries and the severity of 
incidents that take place. 
Injuries
Employees
Contractors' personnel
High consequence injuries  
(number)
0
0
High consequence injury rate
0
0
Recordable injuries  
(number)
57
26
Recordable injury rate
0.4
0.4
Number of hours worked  
(millions)
27.78
12.41
Note:   All injury rates have been calculated based on 200,000 hours worked.
 
High consequence injuries - injuries that require more than 6 months recovery time.
 
Recordable injuries - injuries that require recovery time of greater than 1 day and less than 6 months.
 
Zero fatalities of employees or contractors were recorded in 2020/21.
This year, health and safety of all internal and external stakeholders associated with our operations 
took precedence amidst the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic and stringent procedures 
were adopted at all companies to allow business continuity whilst ensuring hygiene and safety 
protocols were in place.
Details of COVID-19 health and safety measures can be found under the respective industry  
groups - page 66 
Collective Bargaining
The Group also carries out ongoing engagements with trade unions through joint consultative 
committees and other mechanisms. Formal agreements are found in the Consumer Foods industry 
group which cover 585 employees, and accounts for 4 per cent of the Group's total employee 
count. TSF's wage structure is aligned with the regulations of the country's plantation industry.
Employee Benefit Plans 
In Sri Lanka, employees are eligible for the Employees' Provident Fund (EPF) and the Employees' 
Trust Fund (ETF) contributions, while employees who are Maldivian nationals employed in the 
Maldives are eligible for the Maldives Retirement Pension Scheme (MRPS) contributions. The total 
contribution made to the employee trust funds for the reporting year was Rs.174 million (3 per cent 
of salary contributed by employer), while the total contribution made to the employee provident 
fund was Rs.756 million (12- 20 per cent of salary contributed by employer and 8-15 per cent of 
salary contributed by employee). In Sri Lanka, employees are also entitled to retirement gratuity. The 
employee benefit liability as at 31 March 2021 was Rs.2.3 billion. 
Stringent policies, 
practices, trainings and 
safety certifications are in 
place across businesses and 
Group companies closely 
monitor, report and follow 
up on incidences of injury.
John Keells staff volunteers at various CSR initiatives.
Regular fire safety drills are conducted at business sites.
Staff Volunteerism 
Staff volunteerism plays a vital role in the 
success of initiatives undertaken by JKF - the 
social responsibility entity of the Group. Staff 
volunteers can vary from project champions, 
sector coordinators, volunteer trainers and 
skill-based volunteers to those providing field 
and administrative support. Consonant with 
the Group's community engagement strategy, 
the John Keells Volunteer Network enables 
employees to go beyond their day-to-day 
work and make a hands-on contribution to the 
community and environment, while the Group's 
volunteer leave policy enables staff to be released 
for CSR activities with minimum restraint.
COVID-19 INSIGHT
Despite restrictions on field-based 
opportunities due to the COVID-19 
pandemic, 226 staff volunteers engaged 
in projects undertaken by JKF while 
over 388 volunteer instances and over 
900 hours were recorded during the 
year under review. Notwithstanding 
the challenges consequent to the 
pandemic, volunteers across the Group 
supported JKF to sustain and innovate 
planned activities including the conduct 
of a wide array of virtual and remote 
programmes during the year. 

58   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT REVIEW
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL 
The Group strongly believes in the importance of forging sustainable relationships with customers, suppliers, community and all other stakeholders to 
unlock long-term sustainable value creation. To this end, the Group is engaged in a multitude of initiatives that facilitate collaboration and reciprocity 
between the Group and its key stakeholders. 
Priority SDGs under Social and Relationship Capital
Related SDGs the Group is working towards:
Key highlights for the year:
1.  NO POVERTY
  
Fostering sustainable livelihoods through relevant skills, capacity and 
infrastructure enhancement towards poverty alleviation.
Successful completion of the 7-year integrated development 
programme in two villages of the Mullaitivu district reducing the 
poverty line from 93% to 29%.
Kala Pola (Art Fair) was organised as a virtual event spanning 
over a month which showcased 202 artists.
Launch of Skill into Progress (SKIP) programme to upskill 
identified suppliers of the Group.
Proactive COVID-19 relief for affected communities and 
frontline workers through the provision of various health and 
safety equipment.
Pilot Soft Skills Webinar Series benefiting 388 university 
students.
English language and higher education scholarships benefiting 
197 disadvantaged school children and university students.
Empowering women's livelihoods by upskilling and facilitating 
market linkages for 12 women engaged in batik craft and 16 
women producing paper products.
Initiated a restoration project involving 20 hectares of identified 
forest land to grow into a forest habitat that will mimic the 
adjoining Sinharaja forest, a world heritage site.
Launch of a new initiative on Substance Abuse Prevention 
Awareness directly impacting 219 teachers, parents and 
Government officials.
Multi-pronged public awareness campaigns focused on 
preventing and addressing Gender-based Violence and Child 
Abuse, reaching over 1 million people.
85 per cent of the Group's purchases were sourced from local 
suppliers.
3.  GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING
 
Fostering healthy communities towards enhancing well-being and 
productivity.
4.  QUALITY EDUCATION
 
Providing better access to educational opportunities towards 
enhancing employability and entrepreneurship. 
5.  GENDER EQUALITY
 
Working towards gender empowerment through skill development 
and infrastructure enhancement, eliminating all types of violence from 
society through awareness and capacity building.
6.  CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION
 
Supporting communities with essential infrastructure facilities to 
enhance access to clean water and sanitation.
8.  DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH
 
Developing sustainable livelihoods through relevant skills, capacity 
and infrastructure enhancement towards building empowered and 
sustainable communities.
 
Entrenching sustainability into supply chains, building mutually 
beneficial relationships and livelihood development. 
11.  SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES
 
Nurturing the livelihoods of local communities, including artists and 
preserving the cultural heritage creation.
16.  PEACE, JUSTICE AND STRONG INSTITUTIONS
 
Eliminating violence, especially against women and children through 
capacity building and awareness creation.
Three-year performance indicators:
2020/21
2019/20**
2018/19
Community services and infrastructure projects  
(Rs.million)
 51
111
115
Proportion of purchases from suppliers within Sri Lanka  
(%)
85
79
78
Community engagement  
(no. of persons impacted)
 756,153
833,234
 946,082 
Sustainability integration awareness  
(no. of business partners) 
 72
134
80
Business partners screened for labour, environment and human rights  (no. of business partners)
 74
89
90
Proportion of labels carrying ingredients used  
(%)
 79
80
80
Proportion of labels carrying information on disposal  
(%)
 92
88
93
Proportion of labels carrying sourcing of components  
(%)
 1
1
1
Monetary value of significant fines*
  
(Rs.) 
No significant fines
3,932,051
 1,021,875 
Proportion of businesses analysed for risk of corruption  
(%)
100
100
100
*Significant fines are defined as fines over Rs.1 million
** 2019/20 has been restated 

59
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
It is pertinent to note that the Group did 
not experience either significant fines or any 
environmental levies during the year, aside 
from minor product related fines in the Retail 
sector which have been duly addressed and 
rectified. 
Of the Group's economic value distributed, 
85 per cent was spent on goods, services 
and utilities locally. This is derived based 
on the number of operations, location of 
revenue generation and location of significant 
operations. During the year, the Group was 
able to support community suppliers, many 
of whom are small businesses, by spending 
Rs.5.6 billion mainly on the purchase of fresh 
produce through the Consumer Foods and 
Retail industry groups and Sri Lankan Resorts 
and Colombo Hotels segments.
Product Responsibility 
The Group is committed to maintaining the 
highest quality in its product and service 
offering, by adhering to all legal requirements, 
both local and international. Robust quality 
management processes are in place to ensure 
the highest quality in processes, responsible 
marketing and communications and health 
and safety of both employees and customers. 
The Group's affiliation with the certification 
of ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001/ISO 
45001 signifies its commitment in this regard.
Supply Chain Management 
The Group extends its sustainability focus to 
its value chain, with a view to create, protect 
and foster long-term environmental, social and 
economic value for all stakeholders. To this 
end, its Supplier Code of Conduct mandates 
compliance with laws and regulations as well 
as adherence to and support of international 
principles on ethical labour practices, 
human rights, environmental impacts and 
other sustainability issues. It is noteworthy 
to mention that the code was revisited to 
encourage female participation in all facets of 
the Group's supply chain.
The Group constantly invests in educating 
and engaging with its suppliers to share best 
practices on sustainable conduct. During the 
year under review, the Group engaged with 72 
suppliers and also carried out assessments on 
74 suppliers currently contracted with Group 
businesses. 
The Group Initiatives division also reinforces 
the Group's commitment towards a 
sustainable value chain by providing 
functionalities to assess tenders and online 
bids for high value items sourced, based on 
social and environmental aspects in addition 
to price and quality. Conscious of the impacts 
of the COVID-19 pandemic on its suppliers, the 
Group adopted measures to assist suppliers 
connected to its value chain, as detailed under 
the respective Industry Group sections.
Social Responsibility 
The Group firmly believes that community 
engagement, social empowerment and 
environmental sustainability are fundamental 
to sustainable growth and generate  
wide-ranging impacts to the basic human 
rights and needs of people. 
CSR FOCUS AREA - LIVELIHOOD 
DEVELOPMENT
www.johnkeellsfoundation.com
John Keells 'Praja Shakthi' 
The ensuing projects were undertaken by 
JKF under this business centric community 
empowerment initiative centred around the 
locations of Colombo 02, Hikkaduwa and Ranala:
 y
Following a needs assessment forum with 
street vendors and women engaged in 
catering services in Colombo 02 and in 
view of COVID-19 related restrictions in 
conducting onsite training programs, JKF 
initiated '#KeepItSafe' - an awareness creation 
on food safety and hygiene via a customised 
video series developed with the support of 
chefs of 'Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts'. 
 y
A ground assessment was conducted in 
collaboration with Public Health Inspectors 
of the Colombo Municipal Council (CMC) to 
develop an activity plan towards addressing 
gaps and improving market conditions of 
street vendors. An assessment report along 
with recommendations was subsequently 
submitted to CMC and potential collaborative 
action plans are in discussion.
 y
With the objective of providing women 
and men sustainable livelihood 
opportunities, JKF and the International 
Finance Corporation have agreed to 
collaborate on a street market concept 
to empower the surrounding community 
while also enhancing the appeal of 
Colombo as a destination city.
 y
With the aim of linking daily wage earners 
with employment opportunities, JKF 
coordinated job applications resulting in 
the hire of one worker at the 'Cinnamon 
Life' construction site.
 y
In order to support the livelihoods of 
those engaged in the pottery industry, JKF 
together with CCS funded the renovation 
of a clay mixing machine which is expected 
to support 26 families in Ranala.
Youth and Child Development 
 y
JKF and 'ChildFund Sri Lanka' agreed 
to collaborate on developing a Child 
Resource Centre (CRC) at the De Mel Park 
Community Centre (previously constructed 
and donated by JKF). Following clearance 
of planned initiatives with the CMC, two 
community meetings were conducted 
with youth in Colombo 02 to assess needs 
and obtain community support.
 y
A programme on e-marketing was 
conducted by digital marketing volunteers 
from the Group benefitting 10 participants 
in Ranala.
Gender Empowerment
The following programmes were 
conducted towards promoting women's 
entrepreneurship:
 y
A two-day workshop for 10 women 
engaged in the batik craft in Hikkaduwa 
in collaboration with the Academy of 
Design, 'Hikka Tranz by Cinnamon' and the 
Divisional Secretariat (DS) of Hikkaduwa. 
Following the training, a business plan 
was developed for the production of 
an upmarket range of products and the 
launch of a new brand 'Hikka Batiks'. A 
pilot sale of the first batch of products was 
successfully held in Colombo in April 2021.
 y
A two-month training on producing paper 
products with the participation of 16 
women from the 'Batewela Ranliya Women's 
Society of Ranala' in collaboration with CCS 
and the Divisional Secretary of Kaduwela. 
JKF also provided the participants with the 
seed capital to purchase raw materials to 
service new orders which have improved 
substantially since the training. JKF and CCS 
will continue to support these women to 
increase their capacity and market access 
towards becoming independent and self-
sustained entrepreneurs. 

60   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
VILLAGE ADOPTION 
JKF's 7-year integrated development 
programme in Mullaitivu under 
the 'Village Adoption' project was 
successfully concluded with the 
completion and public vesting of 
the farmer anicut in August 2020. JKF 
visited Iranaipalai and Puthumathalan 
for the closure ceremony and met with 
beneficiaries to assess the key initiatives 
that were carried out in the two villages. 
“This initiative brings us great joy as this puts 
an end to our 50-year turmoil. We used to 
stack up close to 200 sand bags spending  
Rs.75,000, at least three times a year, to 
prevent the water from going back to the 
sea. This anicut will enable each farmer to 
earn a profit of at least Rs.250,000 a year.”  
- John Amaranayakam
Secretary of the Farmer Organisation 
in Iranaipalai
 y
Multiple development activities 
comprising fisher and farmer 
livelihood support, skills 
development and refresher classes 
ahead of public examinations, 
essential livelihood and education 
related infrastructure, gender 
and youth empowerment were 
undertaken during the 7 years. 
 y
Total investment of over Rs.45.5 
million
 y
Benefiting over 2,035 persons during 
the project tenure 
 y
Reducing the poverty line from 93 
per cent to 29 per cent
 y
Recording an increase in the pass rate 
at A/L examinations from 40 per cent 
to 100 per cent
English Camp for Kids
A customised 15-hour activity-based English 
camp was organised for the children of 
chauffeur guides attached to the Destination 
Management segment during the schools 
lockdown period. A total of 36 students 
completed this online programme. 
John Keells 'Praja Shakthi' – Education and 
Skills Development
As part of the John Keells 'Praja Shakthi' 
programme, the following initiatives relating 
to school infrastructure and education support 
were implemented: 
 y
In commemoration of National Children's 
Day, JKF organised a book donation to 
Al Iqbal Balika Vidyalaya, T.B. Jayah Zahira 
College, Holy Rosary Tamil school and Siri 
Sariputta Vidyalaya in Colombo 02.
 y
JKF in collaboration with 'Hikka Tranz by 
Cinnamon', relocated and renovated the 
playground at 'Ekamuthu' pre-school 
in Hikkaduwa benefiting 30 pre-school 
children.
Soft Skills for University Undergraduates
Due to restrictions on gatherings on account 
of COVID-19, JKF piloted a webinar series 
aimed at improving the employability of 
university undergraduates. 388 students 
participated in the three workshops that 
spanned over three weeks. 
Higher Education Scholarship Programme
18 advanced level students and 10 university 
students were provided scholarships to pursue 
their education under this programme, which 
is aimed at encouraging disadvantaged youth 
from underserved communities to pursue 
their higher education. 
Graduate Training Programme
Following a request made by the Colombo 
DS, JKF pledged to provide private sector work 
experience and exposure to 64 graduates 
newly recruited to the Government Sector, 
over a period of 15 weeks at Group businesses. 
While the first batch commenced the 
programme at 6 different businesses of the 
Group, due to the restrictions resulting from 
the COVID-19 pandemic, the training sessions 
were suspended indefinitely.
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT REVIEW
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL
CSR FOCUS AREA: EDUCATION
www.johnkeellsfoundation.com
English Language Scholarship Programme 
(ELSP)
JKF continued its long-term project offering 
scholarships to improve proficiency in English 
to disadvantaged school children from rural 
and underserved communities under its 
sustained programme 'English for Teens'. 169 
high-performing students from the 2019/20 
programme were offered scholarships under 
the Tier 2 scheme which also focuses on 
developing soft skills. A total of 150 students 
successfully completed the online classes 
recording requisite attendance and passed the 
final examination.
The virtual English Day events organised by 
JKF for the students who completed ELSP in 
2019/20, were held during the year with the 
participation of 181 students from 05 locations 
and judged remotely due to COVID-19 related 
restrictions. These events provide a platform 
for the scholars to showcase their talents and 
demonstrate self-confidence in the presence 
of an independent panel of judges.
Skill into Progress (SKIP)
JKF introduced a customised upskilling 
programme called 'Skill into Progress' 
(SKIP) in collaboration with the Destination 
Management segment and the Supermarket 
business, aimed at improving English 
proficiency of chauffeurs and suppliers 
attached to these businesses, respectively. 
These 36-hour pilot programmes conducted 
by the Gateway Language Centre were 
completed by 16 chauffeur guides and are in 
progress for 12 'Keells' own label suppliers.
“Before this programme, I was not confident 
in communicating in English. Today, I am able 
to provide my feedback on the programme 
in English, without the help of anyone after 
following this programme. I believe that this will 
help me to a great extent in the future. I would 
like to thank Keells for going beyond business 
relationships and supporting their suppliers.” 
- Kumari Rajakaruna  
Participant of the SKIP programme for 'Keells' suppliers
Pilot sale of 'Hikka Batiks' women's enterprise.

61
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
CSR FOCUS AREA - HEALTH
www.johnkeellsfoundation.com
The John Keells Vision Project 
During the year in review, the following 
initiatives were undertaken:
 y
Vision screening in 15 schools of the 
Colombo District, with over 81 school 
children being tested and 239 eyeglasses 
provided free-of-charge, resulting in a 
cumulative project total of 14,212 eyeglasses.
 y
JKF rescinded the MoUs with the Ministry 
of Health on conducting further cataract 
clinics, surgeries and vision screening 
programmes with due notice and 
effective from January 2021, in view of 
the progressive decline in the number of 
camps and surgeries held over the past few 
years and continued challenges posed by 
the COVID-19 pandemic.
Project WAVE (Working Against Violence 
through Education)
'Project WAVE' (Working Against Violence 
through Education) – a long-term project 
launched in 2014 with the aim of preventing 
gender-based violence and child abuse 
through education, capacity building, social 
sensitisation and advocacy programmes - 
continued to make strides in the reporting year.
 y
The annual public awareness campaign 
against sexual harassment was 
conducted for the fifth successive year in 
commemoration of the International Day 
for the Elimination of Violence against 
Women. The campaign, themed 'Break the 
Silence to End the Violence', comprised 
the launch of an e-learning platform 
for Group staff on raising awareness on 
gender-based violence and child abuse, a 
panel discussion aired during prime time 
on a premier television channel and a 
public awareness campaign through social 
media and digital screens in the City. The 
campaign reached over 991,000 persons.
 y
During the year, virtual awareness 
sessions conducted at Group induction 
programmes and an interactive e-learning 
platform were used to provide basic and 
informative knowledge to Group staff. 
These initiatives impacted 101 staff.
 y
A poster campaign was organised to commemorate National Children's Day under the 
theme, 'Investing in our future means investing in our children'. Posters aimed at raising 
public awareness on Child Protection and promoting value based character development 
were displayed at 11 John Keells 'Praja Shakthi' schools, 114 'Keells' supermarket outlets and 
10 'Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts'. The awareness poster was also promoted on social media 
platforms reaching over 41,000 persons.
 y
The project had a cumulative reach of over 1 million persons during the year.
John Keells HIV and AIDS Awareness Campaign 
HIV & AIDS awareness sessions have been conducted for varied segments of the population, since 
its inception in 2005. Sessions are conducted by John Keells volunteer trainers, with some of the 
sessions featuring testimonies by HIV positive persons as a means of effectively addressing aspects 
of stigma and discrimination while enabling such persons to develop economic independence. 
During the year under review:
 y
World AIDS Day was commemorated through a video message delivered by Master Trainers to 
encourage staff to take the e-learning module available on the JKF website. 
 y
JMSL extended its food redistribution campaign to the Positive Women's Network - an NGO 
concerned with the well-being of HIV/AIDS positive individuals - by donating fresh vegetables 
and other produce. 
Substance abuse prevention awareness session in Hikkaduwa.
SUBSTANCE ABUSE PREVENTION AWARENESS 
Whilst awareness on drug abuse prevention among school children is critical, equipping 
teachers and parents with a proper understanding of the related risks and dangers and the 
importance of creating an enabling environment to support drug prevention is equally 
pivotal.
In this context, JKF launched a new project on Substance Abuse Prevention Awareness 
during the reporting year, piloting both a capacity building programme for teacher 
counsellors in the Colombo district in collaboration with the National Dangerous 
Drugs Control Board (NDDCB) as well as awareness for pre-school teachers, parents and 
Government officials in Hikkaduwa in collaboration with Humedica Lanka. 
The 3-day teacher training workshops organised by NDDCB in collaboration with the 
Ministry of Education empowered 107 teachers and principals from 91 schools from the 
Colombo and Sri Jayewardenepura Education Zones.
Awareness sessions were also conducted for Government officials including DS subject staff, 
Grama Niladhari, representatives from the Provincial Education Department, community 
police, pre-school teachers and parents in collaboration with Humedica Lanka. A total of 109 
participants benefited from the programmes while a multi- stakeholder steering committee 
was also established to identify community related issues, drive this initiative within the 
community and ensure its sustainability.

62   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT REVIEW
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL
CSR FOCUS AREA – ARTS AND CULTURE
www.johnkeellsfoundation.com
Kala Pola 
'Kala Pola' - Sri Lanka's annual art fair 
showcasing and promoting visual art - was 
conducted online as a month-long event for 
the first time in its 28-year history owing to 
COVID-19 related restrictions. Conceptualised 
by the George Keyt Foundation and funded 
and organised by the John Keells Group, the 
event was hosted on JKF's digital platform 
(www.srilankanartgallery.com) showcasing 
over 4,000 works of art from 202 artists. The 
event attracted 56,420 visitors during the 
month with over 200 pieces of art sold online. 
Nations Trust Bank came on board as the 
event's Banking Partner, with an exclusive 
preview of the online event being offered to 
its Private Banking customers.
As a means of enhancing visitor experience 
and knowledge creation, the month-long 
event featured four interactive events 
including a collector's guide on starting and 
adding to a collection, a kids' clay and leaf 
printing workshop, a panel discussion on 
digital transformation in the art industry and a 
panel discussion with senior 'Kala Pola' artists. 
As the second phase of the programme, a 
one-day pilot pop-up sale was held at Arcade 
Independence Square in Colombo featuring 
25 senior artists who have been a part of 
the event for over 15 years. The pop-up sale 
which was held subject to COVID-19 protocols 
attracted 978 visitors and generated over 
Rs.1.5 Mn in estimated sales revenue. 
Sri Lankan Digital Art Gallery
JKF continued to maintain and improve its 
digital art gallery which serves as an online 
platform for local artists to showcase their 
work all year-round while sustaining and 
enhancing the interest of art patrons. As at 
31 March 2021, 1,136 artists were registered 
with the Sri Lankan Art Gallery (www.
srilankanartgallery.com) including 40 new 
artists registered for 'Kala Pola 2021'. During 
the year in review, 34,319 persons visited the 
site - a 65 per cent increase against 2019/20. 
Gratiaen Trust 
JKF continued its primary sponsorship of the Gratiaen Trust (GT) to recognise, promote and nurture 
Sri Lankan authors residing in Sri Lanka. 
 y
Despite COVID-19-related restrictions, GT conducted its annual short list event and Gratiaen 
Prize event virtually attracting over 16,000 viewers. The online event enabled GT to reach a 
wider audience within and outside of Sri Lanka while recognising Sri Lankan authors resident in 
the country. 
 y
A weekend event in association with JKF and 'Cinnamon Bentota Beach' was conducted 
featuring a poetry reading, travel history, archaeology, geographies, a panel discussion with 
cricket celebrity Kumar Sangakkara and Gratiaen writers, among others. The event attracted  
90 guests. 
 y
An event was organised in commemoration of Children's Day to encourage young readers. 
98 children participated in these sessions which featured children's literature by renowned 
children's writer Sybil Wettasinghe among others.
 y
An online workshop was successfully held in collaboration with the University of Peradeniya 
and Seagull School of Publishing, India which also served as a lead up to the H.A.I Goonetileke 
Award due to be presented in 2021/22. 
Museum of Modern and Contemporary Art (MMCA) 
JKF continued its primary sponsorship of the Museum of Modern and Contemporary Art (MMCA) 
which aims to establish a public museum dedicated to the display, research, collection and 
conservation of Sri Lankan modern and contemporary art. In view of the restrictions arising due 
to COVID-19 during the year, MMCA also focused on initiatives under Education and Livelihood 
development in the realm of art. MMCA's key activities included:
 y
A collaboration with the Department of Fine Arts of the University of Jaffna to develop a series 
of online lectures for the final year special degree course.
 y
Eight final year students from the Department of Art History, University of Jaffna completed a 
21-day internship as a continuing study programme, leading on from the Curatorial Practice 
Course Unit conducted by MMCA. 
 y
A capacity building programme for G.C.E. Ordinary Level Art teachers for curriculum 
development under areas of competencies in art curricula, focusing on modern art, theory vs. 
practice and overcoming constraints.
 y
Introducing trilingual learning resources on MMCA's website.
 y
10 studio visits during the year, to identify capacity building and other support requirements of 
local artists. 
 y
Elements of the 'One Hundred Thousand Small Tales' exhibition were transitioned to an online 
platform and with the easing of the lockdown, the exhibition was re-opened to the public in 
August 2020. 
 y
Ongoing cataloguing of the George Keyt Collection and Gamini Ratnavira Collection at 
'Cinnamon Lodge Habarana'
Sunera Foundation 
During the year under review, JKF concluded its sponsorship at Katugasthota and moved its 
support to Sunera Foundation's workshop for 19 differently abled children and youth in Galle. 
Although only three physical classes took place due to COVID-19 related restrictions, the trainers 
continued to stay in contact with the families to keep the children engaged in home-based 
activities. 
Aluwihare Hertiage Centre (AHC) 
During the year JKF initiated a sponsorship for AHC's programme to identify, record and archive 
the works of over 4,000 tracings of batik samples of the late Ena De Silva - a renowned Sri Lankan 
artist credited with re-establishing the country's batik industry – and to support related activities of 
a group of women entrepreneurs in Aluwihare in Matale District.  

63
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
CSR FOCUS AREA - DISASTER RELIEF
www.johnkeellsfoundation.com
Supporting fellow citizens in their time of 
need has been a vital aspect of the John Keells 
Group's culture.
Towards addressing the challenges arising from 
the COVID-19 pandemic, the following initiatives 
were undertaken to strengthen the safety of the 
front-line workers and the community: 
 y
JKF assisted five Government hospitals 
with the donation of personal protection 
equipment (PPE) and KN95 masks.
 y
Six schools in Colombo 02 and Ranala 
were provided with handwashing units to 
support the observance of Government 
protocols for recommencement of schools 
post-COVID-19. Further, the community 
police of Colombo 02 were supplied with 
chemicals to sanitise five schools with the 
assistance of Group volunteers. 
 y
Handwashing units were provided to two 
Grama Niladhari Divisions in Ranala and the 
Nawagamuwa Police Station.
 y
Distribution of surgical masks and hand 
sanitisers to 100 Government officials in 
Colombo.
For further details on these projects, refer the 
John Keells Foundation website and social 
media pages.
Handwashing stations installed in schools to abide by 
COVID-19 protocols. 
INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL
The Group places emphasis on Intellectual Capital as a source of competitive advantage, given its 
importance in sustainable value creation. As such, the Group strives to continually innovate, rely 
on new technology and leverage on the skills and knowledge of its employees in a bid to grow its 
Intellectual Capital base.  
Research and Development
John Keells Research (JKR), the research and development arm of the Group, is constantly engaged 
in discovering new and efficient solutions to dynamic business needs as well as potential solutions 
which could lead to novel business models. To this end, JKR was involved in a multitude of projects 
during the year under review: 
 y
Entered into an MoU with Orel Corporation (Private) Limited in Sri Lanka, to co-develop an 
antimicrobial polymer composite.
 y
Collaborated with Deakin University in Australia, to develop high quality supercapacitor 
prototypes using patented novel energy storage material developed in collaboration with the 
National Metallurgical Lab of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR-NML).
 y
Explored opportunities, both locally and globally, to commercialise and co-develop JKR's 
contemporary rubber graphite composite technology and its wireless energy harvesting 
technology. 
 y
Selected to participate in the 'Enabling IP Environment Project' conducted by the World 
Intellectual Property Office (WIPO) for the third consecutive year. JKR remains the only private 
sector-based research group in the world to be selected. Under the programme, JKR continues 
to receive mentorship from WIPO nominated experts on its commercialisation efforts relating 
to two of its projects.
Priority SDGs under Human Capital
Related SDG focus areas the Group is  
working towards:
Key highlights for the year:
7.  AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN 
ENERGY
  
Develop new and efficient solutions 
surrounding modern energy services.
John Keells Research (JKR) 
explored opportunities 
to commercialise JKR's 
contemporary rubber graphite 
composite technology and 
its wireless energy harvesting 
technology.
OCTAVE continued to develop, 
pilot and roll out a series of use 
cases, where preliminary results 
are promising.
John Keells X continued to 
monitor and support its  
current portfolio of start-ups 
through funding support, 
access to the Group networks, 
support services and 
mentoring.
To develop internal capability, 
OCTAVE continued to expand 
its team of advanced analytics 
professionals.
8.  DECENT WORK AND 
ECONOMIC GROWTH
 
Continue to collaborate with and support 
the start-up ecosystem of Sri Lanka by 
creating a unique platform for disruptive 
and innovative technology-based 
solutions.
 
Facilitate a digital transformation drive, 
through advanced analytics solutions 
with the aim of enabling data driven 
decision-making in businesses.
9. INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND 
INFRASTRUCTURE
 
Continue to grow the Intellectual Capital 
base by innovating, relying on new 
technology and leveraging on the skills 
and knowledge of employees. 
17.  PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS
 
The Group is an equal opportunity 
employer and does not tolerate 
discrimination of any form. 

64   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT REVIEW
TRANSPORTATION
Transportation
Ports and Shipping
CONSUMER FOODS
Beverages
Frozen Confectionery
Convenience Foods
RETAIL
Supermarkets
Office 
Automation
LEISURE
Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts
Destination Management
Hotel Management
PROPERTY
Property Development
Real Estate
FINANCIAL SERVICES
Insurance
Banking
Stockbroking
OTHER, INCLUDING 
 INFORMATION 
TECHNOLOGY 
AND PLANTATION 
SERVICES
Information Technology
Plantation Services
Other
Digitisation, Disruption and Open Innovation
In a business climate of fast growing disruptive technology and radically changing consumer 
expectations, the Group has placed emphasis on creating a platform to facilitate its digital 
transformation drive, centred around 'Disruption and Innovation' to seize the potential 
opportunities offered through disruptive technology. The Group's digital transformation drive 
entail investments in infrastructure, instilling a culture of change acceptance and training of 
staff, among others. The Group understands that disruptive technology is not simply a driver of 
growth and opportunity, but an important source of gaining competitive advantage. However, the 
Group is mindful of navigating the inherent uncertainty and challenges presented by disruptive 
technologies by taking proactive measures prior to the adoption of such technology. The Group's 
Advance Analytics journey and John Keells X (JKX) is a testament to the Group's commitment to its 
digital transformation drive. 
 y
Organised an online training programme on 
royalty rate determination in the context of 
IP licensing, which was conducted by Prof. 
Richard Cahoon of Cornell University, for 
select Centre Functions.
In a backdrop of evolving business trends 
and customer preferences, the Group's brand 
strategy aims at remaining authentic and 
relevant, whilst resonating core values and 
beliefs of the Group. To this end, the Group 
engaged in the following initiatives and was a 
recipient of the following accolades during the 
year under review;
 y
The new 'Keells' modern trade brand which 
was developed with the aim of epitomising 
JMSL's 'fresh' promise, service excellence 
and quality was adjudged as the most 
valuable supermarket brand for the second 
consecutive year in 2020. Further, the brand 
was listed amongst the top 10 most visible 
brands on the internet in Sri Lanka by the Asia 
Pacific Institute of Digital Marketing and was 
shortlisted for the World Retail Awards under 
the best brand transformation category.
 y
The 'Elephant House' brand, stems from 
a rich and celebrated history which was 
further reinforced when the brand won the 
gold award for 'confectionery and beverage 
products' and was the recipient of a special 
award for 'best performing exporter in 
emerging markets' at NCE Export Awards 2020.
 y
Further to its brand change in March 2020, 
which was centred around the theme 
'Your Life, Our Strength', Union Assurance 
(UA) was awarded the Best Brand and 
Sustainable Marketing Excellence award by 
CMO Asia/CMO Global and was selected 
as the top ranked Insurance Company 
in the Life and Non-life categories in the 
inaugural 'LMD's Most Awarded'. UA was 
also awarded Domestic Life Insurer of the 
Year, New Insurance Product of the Year, and 
Digital Insurance Initiative of the Year at the 
Insurance Asia Awards 2020 making it the 
only Sri Lankan life insurer to be awarded with 
such accolades at this prestigious event.
Brand Stewardship
The Group is home to many brands which have gained recognition in their respective spheres over 
many years. The range of brands under each of the industry groups are depicted below.
In a backdrop of evolving 
business trends and customer 
preferences, the Group's brand 
strategy aims at remaining 
authentic and relevant, whilst 
resonating core values and 
beliefs of the Group.

65
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
John Keells X (JKX), the Group's start-up 
accelerator, provides a channel for Group 
businesses to collaborate with the start-up 
ecosystem of Sri Lanka by creating a unique 
platform for disruptive and innovative 
technology-based solutions. JKX also 
provides initial investment and support 
required for early stage start-ups.
Key highlights for JKX during the year under 
review are as follows:
 y
JKX funded start-ups remained resilient 
during the first and second waves of the 
COVID-19 pandemic and demonstrated 
growth in business performance relative 
to pre-pandemic levels. Select companies 
were also successful in attracting and 
securing investment from external 
investors.
 y
JKX funded start-ups continued to 
perform well on local and global 
competitions, with select start-ups 
gaining entry to international start-up 
accelerator programmes.
 y
JKX continued to monitor and support 
its current portfolio of start-ups 
through funding support, access to the 
Group networks, support services and 
mentoring. 
 y
The annual open innovation challenge 
for the year under review, was postponed 
to the ensuing year in lieu of challenges 
arising from the COVID-19 pandemic. 
The Group's digital 
transformation drive entail 
investments in infrastructure, 
instilling a culture of change 
acceptance and training of 
staff, among others.
ADVANCED ANALYTICS TRANSFORMATION JOURNEY 
The Group continued its advanced analytics transformation journey, which commenced 
in 2019. OCTAVE - the Data and Advanced Analytics Centre of Excellence of the Group, in 
collaboration with a global consulting firm, focuses on a transformation journey for the Group 
through a greater degree of data driven decision-making in businesses across the Group. 
As noted in the 2019/20 JKH Annual Report, work on a series of use cases in the Retail 
and Financial Services industry groups yielded promising results, with initial pilot projects 
indicating signs of significant value that can be unlocked from translating advanced analytics 
insights into front line business interventions. However, challenges on the back of the 
COVID-19 pandemic compelled the Group to review the timing of the roll out of several 
of these identified use cases until such time business operations returned to a level of 
normalcy, and impact could be meaningfully assessed. 
With business activity rebounding towards the fourth quarter of the year under review, 
OCTAVE continued to develop, pilot and roll out a series of use cases within these industry 
groups. Although it is premature to fully assess the full impact of these interventions, 
preliminary results are extremely encouraging where these anticipated benefits are 
incorporated into future budget plans as well. 
Continuing this momentum, OCTAVE also commenced work on use cases in the Beverages 
business of the Consumer Foods industry group and is expected to extend its efforts to the 
Frozen Confectionery business in the ensuing year. Data governance practices which were 
institutionalised across the Supermarket and Insurance businesses, were extended to the 
Consumer Foods industry group during the year, with defined roles being staffed by trained 
resources and milestones set for governing data domains of the said businesses. 
The OCTAVE Advanced Analytics Academy which offers in-class room training, online 
courses and curated on-the-job learning for each cohort of roles linked to the advanced 
analytics transformation programme, has successfully trained over 80 team members in 
the Group in functioning in advanced analytics roles at OCTAVE and within businesses 
across the Supermarket and Insurance businesses and the Consumer Foods industry group. 
Towards the latter part of the year under review, OCTAVE also commenced independent 
development of use cases, with moderate supervision from the global consulting firm. Such 
independent implementation and delivery of use cases is aimed towards developing internal 
capability towards sustaining an advanced analytics practice in the Group. The capability of 
the division was reinforced with sustained hiring of advanced analytics professionals during 
the year with the staffing of data scientists, data engineers and delivery leads resulting in an 
increase in the overall headcount at OCTAVE, as envisaged.

66   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
TRANSPORTATION
Key Indicators
Inputs (Rs.million)
2020/21
2019/20
%
2018/19
Total assets
 23,941 
 24,687 
 (3)
 24,919 
Total equity
 18,291 
 17,832 
 3 
 18,246 
Total debt1
 3,663 
 4,402 
 (17)
 4,172 
Capital employed2
 22,118 
 22,237 
 (1)
 22,418 
Employees3
 512 
 732 
 (30)
 698 
Outputs (Rs.million)
2020/21
2019/20
%
2018/19
Turnover4
 26,584 
 33,439 
 (21)
 33,729 
EBIT
 3,347 
 4,178 
 (20)
 4,406 
PBT
 3,343 
 4,087 
 (18)
 4,245 
PAT
 3,246 
 3,962 
 (18)
 4,182 
EBIT per employee
 7 
 6 
 15 
 6 
Carbon footprint
 2,557 
 9,261 
 (72)
 13,808 
1. Excludes lease liabilities.
2. For equity accounted investees, capital employed is representative of the Group's equity investment in these 
companies. This is inclusive of lease liabilities.
3. As per the sustainability reporting boundary.
4. Revenue is inclusive of the Group's share of equity accounted investees.
Contribution to the John Keells Group
Industry Group Structure 
Ports and Shipping
 y
Operation of a container terminal in the Port of Colombo as a public-private 
partnership on a build, operate and transfer (BOT) basis through South Asia 
Gateway Terminals (SAGT).
 y
Associate stake in Maersk Lanka, the agents in Sri Lanka and the Maldives for 
Maersk Line. 
 y
Shipping agency and maritime services through Inchcape Mackinnon Mackenzie 
Shipping (Private) Limited (IMMS).
Transportation
 y
Marine bunkering and related services under Lanka Marine Services (LMS).
 y
Third party logistics (3PL), warehousing, trucking through John Keells Logistics (JKLL).
 y
DHL air express in Sri Lanka, a joint venture with Deutsche Post.
 y
Representation of multiple on-line and off-line airlines as general sales agents 
through Mack Air (MAL) in Sri Lanka. 
 y
Travel agency and travel related services through Mackinnons Travel (MTL).
 y
Domestic scheduled and charter air taxi operations under the brand, 'Cinnamon Air'.
 y
Freight forwarding and customs brokerage through Mack International Freight (MIF).
18%
Revenue
42%
EBIT
5%
Capital 
Employed
3%
Carbon 
Footprint

67
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
MACROECONOMIC UPDATE
 y
Global trade recorded a notable contraction in CY2021, on the back of worsening 
economic conditions and restrictions in movement due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 
World merchandise trade volume contracted by 5.3 per cent in CY2020, as per the World 
Trade Organisation, driven by a better than expected performance towards the latter 
end of the year supported by improved sentiment due to successful trials of effective 
COVID-19 vaccines.  
 y
Given disruptions to trade flows, global ocean freight and air freight rates recorded a 
notable increase during the year under review. 
 y
The Port of Colombo (POC) handled 6.8 million twenty-foot equivalent units (TEUs) in 
2020/21, a 6 per cent decline in TEUs handled against the previous year [2019/20:  
2 per cent]. The contraction was primarily due to the disruptions from the outbreak of 
COVID-19 and the resultant impacts on economic conditions and global and regional 
trade.
 y
Domestic TEU volumes declined by 14 per cent during 2020/21 [2019/20: negative 2 
per cent] driven by a slowdown in domestic imports, restrictions in imports on select 
products and subdued domestic economic conditions. 
 y
Transshipment volumes decreased by 4 per cent in 2020/21 [2019/20: 2 per cent]. 
India continued to be the primary transshipment market for Sri Lanka, accounting for 
~70 per cent of volumes.
 y
Domestic:transshipment mix at the POC stood at 16:84 for 2020/21 [2019/20:18:82].
 y
Overall capacity utilisation at the POC was ~85 per cent for 2020/21.
 y
Capacity enhancements at the POC: 
 y
The Sri Lanka Ports Authority (SLPA) will implement the development and management 
of the East Container Terminal (ECT). While ECT is still in development, a completed 
section opened in late 2020. The first phase of the project features a 450 metre berth 
while an additional 600 metres will be added in the second phase at a later date.
 y
A consortium consisting of Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone Limited 
(APSEZ) and JKH, in the capacity as the local partner, executed a letter of intent 
(LOI) to develop and operate the West Container Terminal (WCT) as a public private 
partnership (PPP) project.
 y
The Jaya Container Terminal (JCT) oil bank initiated the construction of a 3,200 MT 
storage tank at its facility in Colombo. 
Key Policy and Regulatory Highlights 
 y
With the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic in Sri Lanka and the resultant pressures on 
the economy, particularly on the currency, the Government imposed temporary import 
restrictions on select goods such as vehicles and non-essential items. 
 y
Although restrictions were placed on ship managers and manning agents using 
Colombo as a hub for crew movement in June 2020 to contain the spread of COVID-19 in 
the country, these restrictions were subsequently lifted in December 2020.
 y
As per the Budget 2021, in order to promote the POC and the Port of Hambantota (POH) 
as commodity trading hubs in international trading, and to encourage investments in 
bonded warehouses and warehouses related to offshore business, such investments were 
made exempt from all taxes.
EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT AND OPERATIONAL REVIEW 
Ports and Shipping 
During the year under review, the Group's 
Ports and Shipping business, South Asia 
Gateway Terminals (SAGT), recorded a 12 per 
cent volume decline, handling 1.8 million 
TEUs [2019/20: 2.1 million TEUs]. Throughput 
at SAGT was impacted by restrictions in 
movement, both in Sri Lanka and India, 
which adversely affected transshipment 
volumes, particularly in the first quarter of the 
year under review. Domestic volumes and 
transshipment volumes at SAGT decreased 
by 40 per cent and 6 per cent, respectively, 
during the year under review. 
 y
With the outbreak of COVID-19, overall 
volumes recorded a decline in excess 
of 40 per cent in April 2020. Post the 
easing of the lockdown in mid-May 
2020 and the resumption in activity 
in India, volumes demonstrated a 
recovery trend, recording a decline of 
~20 per cent by June 2020. 
 y
The recovery momentum continued 
during the second quarter driven by 
an increase in transshipment volumes 
by 18 per cent which led to an 
increase in total volumes by 7 per cent.
 y
The resurgence of movement 
restrictions in Sri Lanka in the third 
quarter coupled with the brief industrial 
disruption which affected operations 
for a few days, impacted volumes.
 y
Notwithstanding this short-term 
impact, volumes in the fourth quarter 
demonstrated a recovery of 6 per cent 
against the third quarter of 2020/21.  
INSIGHTS
SAGT volumes (TEUs)
FY2020
Q1
FY21 10:90
FY20 19:81
FY21 11:89
FY20 19:81
FY21 14:86
FY20 19:81
FY21 16:84
FY20 20:80
Q2
Q3
Q4
0
100,000
200,000
300,000
400,000
500,000
600,000
FY2021
Domestic:Transshipment volumes

68   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
The ensuing productivity and efficiency 
improvement and capacity enhancement 
initiatives were rolled out during the year 
under review. 
 y
SAGT became the first terminal in Sri Lanka 
to collaborate with 'TradeLens', a digital 
platform using blockchain technology 
jointly developed by Maersk Line and 
International Business Machines (IBM). 
 y
Pioneered the implementation of an 
electronic delivery advice (e-DA) enabling 
uninterrupted, safe, and faster clearance 
of import consignments. This process was 
further enhanced with the launch of an 
electronic payment gateway for faster 
realisation of payments.
 y
To boost yard and gate productivity, the 
business commissioned 46 new terberg 
prime movers, 2 forklifts with a capacity of 
3 tons each, 3 single lift spreaders, 12 new 
40-foot trailers and refurbished 8 rubber 
tyred gantry (RTG) cranes to improve 
operational efficiency.
 y
Continued the trailer refurbishment project 
by extending the lifespan of current 
equipment by 5 years.
 y
Commenced repair activities on 
developing the wharf area.
The year under review marked significant 
developments for the POC in terms of 
much required capacity enhancements. The 
development of the East Container Terminal 
(ECT) will be implemented by the Sri Lanka 
Ports Authority (SLPA). While ECT is still in 
development, a completed section opened in 
late 2020. The first phase of the project features a 
450 metre berth while an additional 600 metres 
will be added in the second phase at a later date. 
Concurrently, further to the approval granted 
by the Cabinet of Ministers, the consortium 
consisting of Adani Ports and Special 
Economic Zone Limited (APSEZ) and JKH in 
the capacity as the local partner of APSEZ 
executed a Letter of Intent (LOI) in March 2021 
from the Ministry of Ports and Shipping and 
SLPA, acting on behalf of the Government of 
Sri Lanka, to develop and operate the West 
Container Terminal (WCT) in the POC as a 
public private partnership project. 
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
TRANSPORTATION
The WCT, a part of the proposed Colombo Port South Harbour Development, encompasses a 
deep-water terminal with an alongside depth of 20 metres and annual capacity of ~3.0 million 
TEUs. The PPP will be constructed on a build, operate and transfer (BOT) basis for a lease period of 
35 years. This investment will ensure continued long-term exposure to the ports business in the 
country which augers well for the future of the Group once it materialises.  
Mackinnon Mackenzie and Company (Shipping) Limited (MMS) entered into a joint venture agreement 
with Inchcape Shipping Services Group Holdings Limited (Inchcape) in January 2021. Inchcape is the 
leading maritime services provider and is the largest independent shipping agency network in the 
world. The newly formed entity, Inchcape Mackinnon Mackenzie Shipping (Private) Limited will provide 
world-class shipping and maritime services at all ports and territorial waters in Sri Lanka. 
During the year under review, MMS implemented the 'GAT-ship port call' software as the front-end 
system for its shipping agency business with the aim of improving productivity and aiding operations. 
Maersk discontinued its 'Damco' and 'Safmarine' brands and the corresponding operations were 
integrated under one brand as a part of the 'Stay Ahead 2.0' strategy. The business was also able to 
secure a ~20 per cent market share in Sri Lanka for 2020/21. The business also invested in various 
digital platforms and products, such as 'customs house broker (CHB) app lite', 'Maersk flow', and 
'TradeLens', with the aim of seamlessly connecting its supply chain.
COVID-19: IMPACT AND MITIGATION – PORTS AND SHIPPING  
The global spread of COVID-19 impacted port operations as the contraction in trade led to a 
slowdown in shipping activities, port traffic and maritime trade flows. The businesses within 
this segment adopted cost-based strategies and continued to digitise its operations. 
Impact 
 y
Whilst the initial impact on volumes in the POC was from the lockdown in China and 
India, the subsequent slowdown in global and regional trade impacted the overall 
performance of the POC given reduced vessel calls.
 y
The imposition of a nationwide lockdown in Sri Lanka further exacerbated this impact, 
given restrictions in movement and challenges in labour which trickled down to delays in 
berthing, sailing, inter-terminal transfer (ITT) delays and a vessel backlog at the POC. 
 y
Although SAGT, in line with the overall market, recorded a decline in throughput driven 
by the imposition of a two-month island-wide curfew, post the easing of the lockdown 
in mid-May 2020, activity displayed a faster than expected recovery during the second 
quarter of the year under review. Thereafter, although the isolation of selected high-
risk areas due to an outbreak of a cluster in early October 2020 impacted the volume 
momentum, the business recorded a rebound in TEUs handled towards the latter end of 
the year under review in tandem with the relaxation of isolation measures.
 y
Restrictions imposed on handling foreign crew transfers impacted MMS. 
 y
Import restrictions imposed by the Government impacted both SAGT and Maersk.
 y
Delays and deferral in export orders due to lockdowns in key source markets such as 
Europe and USA, adversely impacted export consolidation and air freight forwarding 
revenue at Maersk.
Measures taken 
 y
In addition to the business continuity plans in place, SAGT developed a COVID-19 
contingency plan introducing new working hours and rosters.  
 y
Whilst SAGT operated in compliance with COVID-19 protocols of the Government and 
health authorities, additional measures were also rolled out to ensure the health and 
safety of staff liaising directly with the ship's crew and port personnel. 
 y
The businesses rolled out various cash preservation, cost optimisation and productivity 
enhancement initiatives aimed at better managing its funding position. 
The newly formed entity, 
Inchcape Mackinnon  
Mackenzie Shipping (Private) 
Limited will provide world-class 
shipping and maritime services 
at all ports.

69
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
COVID-19: IMPACT AND MITIGATION - LMS 
The setbacks faced due to the spread of COVID-19 was successfully curtailed by LMS by 
proactively implementing various profitability and productivity enhancing mechanisms and 
efficient cost management strategies. 
Impact 
 y
At the onset of the pandemic, demand for global oil weakened, resulting in a sharp decline 
in oil prices. Despite this initial impact, bunker demand and stability in base oil prices 
rebounded at a slow pace during the year in tandem with certain countries lifting travel 
restrictions. However, with the outbreak of subsequent waves of COVID-19 around the 
globe, demand noted a deterioration. The subsequent roll out of vaccinations, contributed 
to a recovery in oil prices towards the latter end of the year. 
 y
Continuous discussions were held between the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting 
Countries (OPEC) and non-OPEC countries regarding production cuts, further contributing 
to oil price volatility. 
 y
Competition from Indian ports impacted Colombo bunker volumes leading to a decline in 
vessel calls. 
Measures taken 
 y
LMS maintained a consistent supply of cargo in Colombo amidst the pandemic.
 y
Entered into fixed forward contracts to hedge the business against potential fluctuations 
whilst continuing to strengthen customer relationships. 
 y
Cost efficient marketing and commercial strategies were adopted in order to improve 
margins.
 y
Various cash management initiatives were rolled out in line with the Group directive.
 y
Maersk was ranked within the 'Top 40 
Companies for the Year 2020' by 'Great 
Place to Work'.
AWARDS
Bunkering 
The Bunkering business of the Group, Lanka 
Marine Services (LMS), remained resilient 
during the year under review, despite the 
numerous challenges faced in light of the 
COVID-19 pandemic. The business was 
impacted by a reduction in demand for bunker 
fuel on the back of the COVID-19 pandemic 
given a reduction in vessel calls which resulted 
in a contraction in overall market volumes and 
exerted pressure on margins. However, the 
business proactively rolled out various cost 
saving and productivity enhancing measures 
to minimise this impact. Such initiatives also 
aided LMS in addressing fluctuating oil prices 
and regional competition. Whilst the overall 
decline in bunker volumes in the Sri Lankan 
market was ~40 per cent, the decline in 
bunker volumes at LMS was 20 per cent.
During the year under review, LMS gained a 
notable increase in domestic market share 
and continued to maintain its overall market 
leadership position within the west coast of Sri 
Lanka. Better inventory management, whereby 
the business was able to consistently import 
low sulphur fuel oil (LSFO) and marine gas oil 
(MGO) via the chartered tanker at favourable 
price points and quantities, helped LMS in 
gaining market traction.  
The first tanker importing bunker fuel was docked at the POH in early April 2020, to discharge 
~25,000 MT of very low sulphur fuel oil (VLSFO) into the Port's newly refurbished tanks. LMS was 
the first to enter into a short-term fuel contract with Sinopec Fuels of Lanka (SFOL) for the sale 
and purchase of 20,000 MT of the aforementioned 25,000 MT of cargo imported by SFOL. During 
the year under review, the business liaised with regulatory authorities to put in place necessary 
frameworks to allow SFOL to transfer cargo to local bunker players subject to certain conditions.
LMS also supplied 2,500 MT of low sulphur marine gas oil (LSMGO) to a Russian warship 'Boris 
Butoma' at the POH, post detailed planning and execution, and under strict deadlines and 
stringent health and safety measures.
Internalisation of technical and crew management services of both bunker barges of LMS (MT 
Mahaweli and MT Nilwala) commenced from August 2020 onwards, aiding the business to reduce 
vessel management costs. In addition to this, LMS acquired the management of 'MT Kappa Sea', 
the largest bunker barge in the country with a capacity of 5,000 DWT, owned by SFOL. 
Tanker refueled with VLSFO at the POH anchorage via the oil barge 'Kumana' of LMS.
Further to the approval 
granted by the Cabinet of 
Ministers, the consortium 
consisting of Adani Ports 
and Special Economic Zone 
Limited (APSEZ) and JKH 
in the capacity as the local 
partner of APSEZ executed 
a Letter of Intent (LOI) in 
March 2021 from the Ministry 
of Ports and Shipping and 
SLPA, acting on behalf of the 
Government of Sri Lanka, to 
develop and operate the West 
Container Terminal (WCT) in 
the POC as a public private 
partnership project.

70   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
Logistics 
The Logistics arm of the Group, John Keells 
Logistics (JKLL) increased its warehousing 
footprint by 200,000 sq.ft. during the year 
under review, driven by an expansion of its 
service offerings and customer base. The 
overall warehouse utilisation for the year was 
recorded at 87 per cent [2019/20: 96 per cent]. 
JKLL ventured into a new business vertical by 
securing Maersk container freight station (CFS) 
operations by setting up the initial facility 
centre at Thudella. The 40,000 sq.ft. facility will 
aid the logistic requirements of global clients 
of Maersk whilst enabling JKLL to enter into 
the apparel sector.
Further, JKLL entered into a last mile delivery 
business partnership with North Seven Trading 
(Private) Limited given the increasing demand 
for last mile delivery. 
The business recorded a 6 per cent increase in 
operational throughput during the year under 
review. Operational throughput recorded a 
decline in the first quarter of the year, driven 
by the imposition of an island-wide lockdown. 
The gradual easing of restrictions thereafter, 
from mid-May 2020 onwards, contributed to 
an improvement in operational throughput. 
Although restrictions on imports also exerted 
pressure on throughput handled, increase in 
the local manufacturing capacity insulated this 
impact. Further, JKLL expanded its transport 
fleet operations by 5 per cent.
During the year under review, JKLL 
commenced the implementation of a tier-1 
cloud-based warehouse management 
system (WMS) with the aim of digitising and 
optimising its logistics value chain, enhancing 
the visibility of its logistics operations, 
optimising costs and increasing productivity.
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
TRANSPORTATION
Given the labour-intensive nature of 
operations, the outbreak of COVID-19 
gave rise to significant challenges 
concerning health and safety of staff. The 
business carried out risk assessment plans 
and COVID-19 prevention measures to 
ensure the safety of its employees and 
continuity of operations.
Impact 
 y
Significant challenges in labour 
given restrictions in movement 
and fears surrounding the potential 
transmission of the virus. Despite 
this, the business was able to carry 
out its operations with no material 
disruptions to operations.
 y
Despite the stringent measures 
imposed to contain the spread of 
COVID-19, due to the frontline nature 
of work, a few COVID-19 cases were 
identified in certain distribution 
centres which exerted pressure on 
operations. 
Measures taken 
 y
Workplace safety procedures and 
COVID-19 safety protocols were 
implemented and closely monitored. 
Employees were provided benefits 
such as personal protective 
equipment (PPE), transport, and 
accommodation facilities. Proactive 
action was taken on a day-to-day 
basis to mitigate the risk of a spread 
of COVID-19, in compliance with the 
guidelines and regulations stipulated 
by the health authorities, including 
regular random PCR tests on staff and 
external parties visiting the facilities 
over and above the legally mandated 
requirement.
 y
During the first wave of COVID-19, a 
part of the Enderamulla distribution 
centre was converted to an online 
order fulfilment centre within a short 
period of three days to aid operations 
of the Supermarket business. 
 y
Currently JKLL handles supplier 
receipts, storage, repackaging and 
delivery of dry and fresh goods to 123 
'Keells' outlets island-wide from four 
distribution centres. 
DHL received the following awards from 
'Great Place to Work':
 y
Ranked within the 'Top 40 Best 
Companies to Work in Sri Lanka – 
2020'.
 y
1st place - 'Best Multinational 
Workplaces in Asia'.
 y
'Best Multinational Corporation in  
Sri Lanka'.
 y
Gold award - 'Best Medium Sized 
Enterprise' category.
 y
Ranked within the 'Top 10 Best 
Companies for Millennials'.
AWARDS
 y
Thudella distribution centre was 
awarded the 'Customs-Trade 
Partnership Against Terrorism' (CTPAT) 
certificate. 
AWARDS
DHL Keells 
DHL (Private) Limited remained resilient 
despite the unprecedented challenges posed 
by the pandemic. An increase in outbound 
parcel shipment volumes and heavy weight 
shipments coupled with an increase in 
inbound volumes aided performance. 
Although an increase in air freight rates 
coupled with the lacklustre performance of 
the apparel sector, on the back of COVID-19 
impacted the performance in the first quarter, 
the subsequent resumption of travel and 
recovery of the apparel sector contributed to 
a rebound in performance. It is pertinent to 
note that the business maintained its position 
as the market leader in the industry during the 
year under review.
The inauguration ceremony of JKLL - Maersk CFS 
operations.
JKLL ventured into a new 
business vertical by securing 
Maersk container freight 
station (CFS) operations by 
setting up the initial facility 
centre at Thudella.
COVID-19: IMPACT AND 
MITIGATION – JKLL

71
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
DHL Keells encountered numerous challenges with the global outbreak of COVID-19 which 
impacted supply chain functions. However, the business rebounded as market conditions 
improved. 
Impact 
 y
The island-wide lockdown imposed in March to mid-May 2020 severely impacted 
outbound parcel shipment volumes, although volumes recovered with the easing of 
lockdowns. 
 y
Constraints in movement and inability to collect respective delivery consignments led to 
an overrun of capacity at the DHL service centre in Seeduwa.
 y
The import ban on non-essential products and import restrictions imposed by the 
Government impacted the inward shipment of parcels.
 y
Restrictions on regular commercial airline flights and cargo flights exerted pressure on 
shipment lead times and cargo volumes. 
 y
Commercial airlines commanded premium rates at the outset of the pandemic to ensure 
connectivity to the flight network.
 y
Remote working conditions and technological advancements led to a decline in 
document related courier services.
 y
During the first lockdown, the apparel sector which is a key customer segment of the 
business was severely impacted. This was subsequently reversed as the apparel sector 
rebounded with fast turnaround times.  
 y
Customer payment delays exerted pressure on the liquidity position. 
Measures taken 
 y
In order to manage the capacity constraints, the business procured containerised space 
to store customer consignments.
 y
The business worked closely with related Government entities to fast-track the clearance 
of shipments.  
 y
Implemented tailor-made business continuity plans to cater to local conditions.
 y
Conducted several customer and market surveys to comprehend the impact of COVID-19 
and the resulting changes in shipping patterns.
The COVID-19 pandemic had an 
unprecedented impact on the airlines 
and travel businesses with operations 
coming to a complete standstill, both 
globally and locally. 
Refer the Leisure industry group review 
for a discussion of the impact of the 
pandemic on the tourism sector -   
page 96 
Measures taken 
 y
Agile cost saving initiatives were 
implemented within all businesses 
to manage operational costs, 
whilst systems and processes were 
also critically reviewed to increase 
efficiency and productivity.
 y
Early bird offers and discounts 
were offered by 'Cinnamon Air' to 
stimulate domestic demand. 
 y
An action plan targeting COVID-19 
safety protocols was rolled out 
amongst the crew and frontline 
workers at 'Cinnamon Air'.
 y
Businesses explored other avenues 
for cash generation, such as 
facilitating ad-hoc international 
cargo operations, Gulf Air online and 
offline ad-hoc cargo operations, and 
seafarer charters at MAL and focus 
on new market segments at MTL. 
'Cinnamon Air' grounded 
its flights throughout 
the year, barring 6 weeks 
during the months of 
September to October 
2020. The flight condition 
of aircrafts were 
maintained at stipulated 
levels.
COVID-19: IMPACT AND MITIGATION -  
AIRLINES AND OTHER 
Airlines and Other 
Businesses within the Airline segment were significantly impacted by the decline in tourist arrivals 
due to the pandemic. The domestic charter flight operation 'Cinnamon Air' grounded its flights 
throughout the year, barring 6 weeks during the months of September to October 2020. The flight 
condition of aircrafts were maintained at stipulated levels. With the gradual recovery in consumer 
sentiment and domestic demand at the time, 'Cinnamon Air' resumed operations in early April 2021.
Refer the Outlook section for details on the ongoing impact of the current outbreak in  
Sri Lanka - Page 134
 
The reduction in flight frequencies on account of the pandemic, severely impacted cargo volumes 
at MAL. This was offset, to an extent, through cargo operations in liaison with Sri Lankan Airlines. 
MTL implemented a mid and back-office software system which will streamline processes and 
increase staff productivity whilst facilitating advanced Business Intelligence (BI) data driven 
decision-making solutions. 
COVID-19: IMPACT AND MITIGATION -  
DHL KEELLS 

72   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT REVIEW
The section that ensues discusses the performance of the industry group during the year under review, under the key forms of Capital applicable for 
the industry group.
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
TRANSPORTATION
Financial and Manufactured Capital
Income Statement Indicators 
Rs.million
2020/21
2019/20
%
Revenue*
Transportation
19,476
26,123
(25)
Ports and Shipping
7,108
7,316
(3)
Total
26,584
33,439
(21)
*Including share of revenue of equity accounted investees.
Transportation 
 y
The Group's Bunkering business recorded a 28 per cent decrease in 
revenue during the year under review. The reduction in demand for 
bunker fuel on the back of the COVID-19 pandemic resulted in an 20 
per cent contraction in volumes at LMS. This was exacerbated by a 
sharp reduction in oil prices. 
 y
The Bunkering business accounts for over 93 per cent of the revenue 
composition within the industry group, excluding equity accounted 
investees.
 y
The Airlines businesses recorded a significant decline in revenue due 
to the COVID-19 pandemic and its resultant impacts on global and 
domestic travel. 
 y
The Logistics business recorded a 27 per cent increase in revenue 
during the year under review, driven by revenue generated from new 
clients and increased velocity across facilities. The classification of the 
business as an essential service provider during periods of lockdown 
also aided the business in continuing operations with no closures.
Ports and Shipping 
 y
The revenue decline in the Ports and Shipping sector is mainly 
attributable to SAGT, which recorded a volume decline of 12 per cent. 
 y
With the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, throughput at SAGT was 
significantly impacted by the lockdowns in Sri Lanka and India which 
affected transshipment volumes. With the easing of restrictions, 
the business witnessed a gradual recovery in throughput. Revenue 
at SAGT was also impacted by a change in the throughput mix on 
account of the continuing import restrictions in place in the country. 
Rs.million
2020/21
2019/20
%
EBITDA*
Transportation 
1,202
1,503
(20)
Ports and Shipping
2,408
2,872
(16)
Total
3,610
4,375
(17)
PBT*
Transportation 
935
1,215
(23)
Ports and Shipping
2,408
2,872
 (16)
Total
3,343
4,087
(18)
*Share of results of equity accounted investees are shown net of all taxes.
Transportation 
 y
The Group's bunkering business noted a 17 per cent decrease in 
EBITDA during the year under review due to the aforementioned 
decline in revenue. Multiple strategies such as forward contracts, 
agile pricing mechanism based on indexes with suppliers, and 
re-bonding cargo to other local suppliers aided the business in 
managing the overall impact on EBITDA.
 y
It should be noted that the Bunkering business recorded strong 
margin growth in 2019/20, particularly in the third quarter, on 
account of the first-mover advantage of introducing low sulphur fuel 
oil (LSFO) to the market. 
 y
Profitability at JKLL was further augmented by cost management 
and productivity enhancing initiatives which resulted in a 42 per cent 
increase in EBITDA.
 y
The Airline businesses recorded a notable contraction in profitability, 
in line with its revenue decline.
 y
Subdued performance at DHL Keells exerted pressure on the sector's 
performance.
 y
In addition to the factors affecting EBITDA as outlined above, PBT was 
also favourably impacted by reduced interest expenses, particularly at 
the Bunkering business given the prevailing low interest rate regime 
and lower short-term borrowings.
Ports and Shipping 
 y
In addition to the EBITDA impact stemming from the revenue 
decline, EBITDA of the Port business was further impacted as a result 
of the business becoming liable for income tax from September 
2019 onwards and due to a brief industrial disruption, which affected 
operations for a few days in the third quarter of the year under 
review.
Balance Sheet Indicators
Rs.million
2020/21
2019/20
%
Debt*
Transportation
3,663
4,402
(17)
Ports and Shipping
-
-
-
Total
3,663
4,402
(17)
*Excludes lease liabilities.
 y
The decrease in debt in the industry group is mainly attributable to 
a decrease in short-term borrowings at LMS given a contraction in 
working capital. 
 y
Lease liabilities as at 31 March 2021 stood at Rs.164 million [2019/20: 
Rs.2.3 million]. Total debt including leases stood at Rs.3.83 billion as at 
31 March 2021 [2019/20: Rs.4.40 billion].
 y
JKLL recorded a 69 per cent increase in debt and lease liabilities, 
primarily due to the adoption of SLFRS 16 – the accounting standard 
on leases. 

73
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
The industry group operates within internal efficiency targets and 
international benchmarks applicable to the industry. Conducting 
operations in an environmentally responsible manner, particularly 
through waste and emissions management, are key areas of emphasis 
for the businesses.
Material topics and focus areas are as follows: 
Natural Capital
Energy and Emissions Management
Relevance: Financial, regulatory and brand reputation implications
Targets and initiatives during the year:
 y
Continuous monitoring of fuel consumption and emissions 
against established international benchmarks.
 y
Ongoing analysis of sales routes for route optimisation via the 
Transport Management System at JKLL.
 y
Ongoing replacement of traditional light bulbs with LED bulbs 
and traditional air conditioner units with energy efficient 
inverter-type units at JKLL.
LOOKING FORWARD: 2025 GOALS
John Keells Logistics set a sustainability goal to be achieved by 
2024/25. The goal aims to reduce its energy usage, against the 
2018/19 baseline. 
Energy
10% reduction in energy consumption at JKLL Seeduwa and 
Enderamulla warehouses. 
Waste Disposed (Kg)
2019/20
15%
2020/21
231,229
200,393
Carbon Footprint (MT)
2019/20
72%
2020/21
2,557
9,261
Carbon footprint scope 1 and 2 per operational intensity factor
2020/21
2019/20
LMS CO2 (kg per MT of bunkers sold)
7.0 
6.9 
JKLL CO2 (kg per sq.ft. of warehouse managed)
2.2 
2.4 
Mack Air CO2 (kg per sq.ft. of office space)
7.9 
11.5 
MTL CO2 (kg per sq.ft. of office space)
0.6   
3.7 
Cinnamon Air CO2 (kg per flight hour)
2,984.3 
3,827.0 
Waste generated per operational intensity factor
2020/21
2019/20
LMS waste generated (kg per MT of bunkers sold)
0.5
0.4
JKLL waste generated (kg per sq.ft. of 
warehouse managed)
0.4
0.3
The Transportation industry group strives to maintain a healthy and safe 
workplace across its operational facilities for its employees, in line with 
industry best practice. The businesses also seek to maintain zero major 
accidents through necessary trainings and awareness creation. 
Significant steps were taken to ensure the safety of employees while 
ensuring uninterrupted operations amidst the COVID-19 pandemic.
Material topics and focus areas are as follows:
Human Capital 
Waste Management
Relevance: Financial, regulatory and brand reputation implications
Targets and initiatives during the year:
 y
Waste generated through bunkering operations was 
continuously monitored and disposed through a Marine 
Environmental Pollution Authority (MEPA) certified third party.
 y
No significant spillages were reported during the year.
Talent Management
Relevance: The need to retain and continuously upgrade skills of 
existing staff, while developing a resource base of  
professionals for the country's transportation industry
Targets and initiatives during the year:
 y
Continuous training and skills development.
 y
The 13-year strategic collaboration with the Department of 
Transport and Logistics Management of the Engineering 
Faculty of the University of Moratuwa, aimed at expanding 
the country's resource base of professionals in the industry 
was halted in the reporting period due to the closure of 
universities and restrictions that arose during the pandemic. 
The programme is set to recommence in 2021/22.

74   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
TRANSPORTATION
Training per Employee (Hours)
2019/20
64%
2020/21
8
22
Training (Hours)
2019/20
74%
2020/21
4,126
16,115
Health and Safety
Relevance: Providing a safe working environment in order to 
improve employee productivity 
Targets and initiatives during the year:
Health and safety 
COVID-19 response
 y
LMS and JKLL upgraded from the OHSAS 18001: 2007 
certification to ISO 45001: 2018 for bunkering and warehousing 
operations.
 y
Fire drills and MARPOL compliant oil spill drills were carried out 
for employees.
 y
Customs Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (CTPAT) certification 
was obtained for JKLL's Thudella facility during the year.
 y
No injuries were recorded during the year under review.
 y
Business continuity plans were activated across all operations with 
continuous monitoring and upgrades, as necessary.
 y
Workplace safety procedures such as temperature checks, 
random PCR tests and hand sanitisation facilities were  
rolled out. 
 y
'Work from home' arrangements were made available.
 y
JKLL conducted a comprehensive risk assessment and took 
measures to ensure the health and safety of operational staff in 
order to continue uninterrupted operations. 
*Training figures were impacted due to COVID-19 restrictions.
The industry group actioned several initiatives with special focus on 
providing support to its partners and stakeholders during COVID-19.
SIGNIFICANT SUPPLIERS
 y
Outsourced vehicle fleets
 y
Warehouse operations
 y
Maintenance, support services, and outsourced employees
 y
Suppliers of capital equipment
Businesses in the industry group assessed, as necessary, significant 
suppliers, including outsourced services in order to maintain mutually 
beneficial relationships with stakeholders and mitigate any negative 
sustainability impacts.
Material topics and focus areas are as follows: 
Social and Relationship Capital 
Supply Chain Management
Relevance: Proactive engagement with suppliers towards building 
trust and promoting brand image
Targets and initiatives during the year:
 y
LMS deferred its annual service fee increment to its lubricant 
principals by one year given the difficulties faced in light of 
COVID-19.
 y
JKLL:
 y
prioritised small-scale supplier payments in order to 
support supplier cash flows.
 y
extended customer discounts based on the concessions 
negotiated with suppliers.
 y
extended weekly PCR testing to third-party truck drivers. 
Community Engagement
Relevance: Proactive community engagement towards building 
trust and promoting brand image
Targets and initiatives during the year:
 y
English language scholarships were awarded to 7 high 
performing students under John Keells Foundation's English 
Language Scholarship Programme. 
 y
Following the outbreak of COVID-19, JKLL distributed 70 
personal protection equipment (PPE) for the use of Public 
Health Inspectors (PHIs).
 y
Dry ration packs were distributed by JKLL among low-income 
communities with the support of the Peliyagoda police station.
Number of Employees* 
68
444
Ports and Shipping
Transportation
*Excludes equity accounted investees, barring 'Cinnamon Air'.

75
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
CSD    |    Non-CSD
Bulk    |    Impulse
CONSUMER FOODS
Key Indicators
Inputs (Rs.million)
2020/21
2019/20
%
2018/19
Total assets
 15,914 
 15,489 
 3 
 14,670 
Total equity
 8,755 
 8,073 
 8 
 7,498 
Total debt1
 2,546 
 3,261 
 (22)
 2,982 
Capital employed2
 11,398 
 11,426 
 (0)
 10,479 
Employees3
 1,402 
 1,480 
 (5)
 1,454 
Outputs (Rs.million)
2020/21
2019/20
%
2018/19
Turnover
 16,510 
 17,004 
 (3)
 16,208 
EBIT
 2,459 
 2,556 
 (4)
 2,134 
PBT
 2,297 
 2,330 
 (1)
 1,941 
PAT
 2,156 
 1,644 
 31 
 1,356 
EBIT per employee
 2 
 2 
 2 
 1 
Carbon footprint
 17,619 
 18,357 
 (4)
 16,484 
1. Excludes lease liabilities.
2. Includes lease liabilities.
3. As per the sustainability reporting boundary.
Industry Group Structure
Convenience Foods
Beverages
 y
Processed meat products under the 'Keells-Krest' and 'Elephant House' brands.
 y
A range of crumbed and formed meat products under the 'Keells-Krest' brand.
 y
Dry range:
 y
Instant rice branded 'Ezy rice'; an affordable, easy-to-prepare and ready-to-eat 
single serve product.
 y
'Keells-Krest Soya Meat', a plant-based product. 
 y
Carbonated soft drinks (CSD) under the 'Elephant House' brand.
 y
Non-CSD range:
 y
'Twistee', a fruit-based tea drink.
 y
'Fit-O', a fruit flavoured drink.
 y
Fresh milk and flavoured milk branded under 'Elephant House'.
 y
Water branded under 'Elephant House'.
 y
'Wild Elephant', an energy drink.
Frozen Confectionery
 y
Wide selection of Frozen Confectionery products, including the premium ice cream 
range 'Imorich' and other impulse products such as stick, cone, and cup varieties.
Note: The above products comprise a portfolio of leading consumer brands – all household names - 
supported by an established island-wide distribution channel and dedicated sales team.
Contribution to the John Keells Group
11%
Revenue
31%
EBIT
3%
Capital 
Employed
21%
Carbon 
Footprint

76   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
MACROECONOMIC UPDATE
 y
Gross domestic product (GDP) in Sri Lanka contracted by 3.6 per cent in CY2020, a 
notable slowdown against the 2.3 per cent growth recorded in CY2019, primarily driven 
by reduced economic activity and dampened sentiment following the COVID-19 
outbreak. Although GDP growth was negative in the first half of CY2020, economic 
activity rebounded thereafter recording a 1.3 per cent growth in both the third and fourth 
quarters of CY2020.
 y
Although headline inflation, as measured by the year-on-year change in the National 
Consumer Price Index (NCPI) remained at single digits during CY2020 similar to the 
previous year, the average annual inflation was recorded at 6.2 per cent, driven by notable 
increases in the food category. 
 y
Core inflation stood at 4.7 per cent in December 2020, while annual average core inflation 
was recorded at 4.1 per cent.
 y
Consumer discretionary spending deteriorated significantly during CY2020, due to 
worsening economic conditions, unprecedented volatility and dampened consumer and 
investor sentiment on the back of COVID-19. 
 y
Whilst discretionary spending witnessed a rebound post the easing of the lockdown 
in mid-May 2020, the isolation of selected high-risk areas due to an outbreak of a 
cluster in early October 2020 impacted sentiment. 
 y
A notable rebound in discretionary spending was witnessed towards the latter end of 
the year under review in tandem with the relaxation of isolation measures.
 y
The LMD-Nielsen Business Confidence Index (BCI) was recorded at 126 points in March 
2021, the highest over the last 12 months, placing it 20 points above the average for this 
period whilst also reaching an all-time average.
Key Policy and Regulatory Highlights
 y
The Special Commodity Levy on sugar was reduced from 50 rupees per kilogram to 25 
cents per kilogram in October 2020. 
 y
Revisions to Excise (Special Provisions) Duty on sweetened beverages.
 y
Mineral water, aerated water, and energy drinks – the exempt quantum of sugar 
contained in such beverages was revised to 6 grams per 200 ml while the duty rate 
was revised to the higher of Rs.12 per litre or 30 cents per gram of added sugar in 
excess of the exempt quantity. 
 y
Beverages based on fruit and vegetable juice – the exempt quantum of sugar was 
revised to 9 grams per 100 ml while the duty rate was revised to the higher of Rs.12 
per litre or 30 cents per gram of added sugar, in excess of the exempt quantity in 
August 2020. In October 2020, this was subsequently revised where the exempt 
quantity of sugar was amended to 8 grams per 100 ml while the duty rate was 
amended to 30 cents per gram.
 y
Carbonated beverages – the exempt quantity of sugar was revised to 6 grams per 100 
ml while the duty rate was revised to the higher of Rs.12 per litre or 30 cents per gram 
of added sugar in excess of the exempt quantity of 6 grams per 100 ml.
 y
Introduction of Cess and Duty on tetra packs, at 10 per cent and 15 per cent, respectively. 
 y
Revision of the ports and airport levy (PAL) to 2.5 per cent on imported milk products, 
including milk powder.  
EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT AND OPERATIONAL REVIEW 
Beverages 
The Beverages business witnessed a challenging 
year on the back of the COVID-19 pandemic, 
recording a 16 per cent decrease in volumes 
during 2020/21. The volume decline was mainly 
attributable to the imposition of a two-month 
island-wide curfew, particularly during the peak 
sales month of April 2020. Post the easing of the 
lockdown in mid-May 2020, business activity 
displayed a faster than expected recovery during 
the second quarter of the year under review. 
Thereafter, although the isolation of selected 
high-risk areas due to an outbreak of a cluster 
in early October 2020 impacted the volume 
momentum, the Beverages business recorded 
a rebound in volumes towards the latter end 
of the year under review in tandem with the 
relaxation of isolation measures. The impact of 
lower volumes was offset, to an extent, through 
selective price increases across SKUs. 
 y
Although CSD volumes in the first 
quarter of the year under review was 
significantly affected by the island-
wide curfew, the easing of restrictions 
thereafter in mid-May resulted in a 
faster than expected recovery where 
volumes were on par with pre-
lockdown levels by the second quarter.
 y
This momentum was affected by the 
cluster outbreak in early October and 
the resultant restrictions imposed, 
although less pronounced than 
originally witnessed during the first 
lockdown.
 y
Notwithstanding this, the business 
witnessed a recovery in volumes in 
the fourth quarter of 2020/21. It is 
encouraging to note that the business 
recorded its highest monthly sales 
volume in 42 months, in March 2021.
INSIGHTS
CSD Volumes 
Index: FY2019 Q1 = 100
FY2019
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
0
30
60
90
120
150
FY2020
FY2021
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW

77
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
COVID-19: IMPACT AND MITIGATION – BEVERAGES 
In light of the unprecedented challenges presented by the pandemic, the Beverages 
business rolled out prudent cost management strategies and reformed its business 
operations to serve its consumers within constraints entailing movement and social 
distancing. 
Impact 
 y
The imposition of the nationwide lockdown in March 2020 led to the subsequent closure 
of all factories till end-April 2020, which significantly impacted sales volumes. 
 y
A notable decrease in consumer discretionary spending, restrictions in movement, and 
the closure of certain general trade (GT) outlets also impacted the business, particularly 
returnable glass bottles (RGB) sales. 
 y
The HORECA (hotels, restaurants, catering) channel noted a significant decline, given the 
severe impact of the pandemic on tourism. The closure of factories and offices due to 
remote working conditions further impacted Beverage volumes. 
 y
Given the impact of the pandemic on global trade, the business encountered challenges 
in sourcing raw materials and witnessed an increase in raw material prices and 
transportation charges.
Measures taken 
 y
Extended credit lines and enabled additional allowances to distributors, to ensure the 
continuity of the supply chain.
 y
Effective inventory management to prevent stock shortages and supply disruptions. 
 y
Implementation of a bio-bubble concept in the manufacturing facility in order to 
minimise the spread of COVID-19 and related production risks.
 y
Introduction of larger pack sizes aimed at increasing take-home consumption.
 y
In line with the Group, various measures aimed at preserving the business's cash flow 
position, managing costs, and realigning expenses were rolled out. 
The business noted a change in shopping behaviour of consumers driven by social distancing and 
remote working practices where RGB recorded a decline in volumes, which was partially offset by a 
growth in PET bottles. The PET: RGB mix stood at 86:14 during the year under review in comparison 
to 77:23 in 2019/20.
The business continued its diversification strategy of creating a sustainable balance between 
its CSD and non-CSD segments. Despite the challenging environment, to ensure a sustainable 
business in line with evolving consumer behaviour, emphasis was placed on expanding its 
portfolio offering. In this regard, the business launched the following products:
 y
'Cream Soda Apple Pop', the first extension of the 'Cream Soda' brand. 
 y
2 Litre 'Cream Soda', 'Necto', 'Orange Crush' and 'EGB' mega value packs, a 'value for money' 
proposition.  
 y
1 Litre 'Twistee Apple' under the fruit juice category of the non-CSD segment.
The business rolled out its advanced analytics transformation programme where two use cases, 
of several well-defined advanced analytics use cases earmarked for the Beverage business, are 
currently at a development stage. These use cases focus on improving efficiencies across the 
supply chain.
 y
'Cream Soda' was awarded 'Beverage 
Brand of the Year' at the SLIM Nielsen 
People's Choice Awards for the 15th 
consecutive year.
AWARDS
Frozen Confectionery 
Despite the challenges, the Frozen 
Confectionery (FC) business contained the 
decline in volumes to a marginal 1 per cent 
during the year under review [2019/20: 3 
per cent]. Whilst Impulse volumes recorded 
a marginal decline during the year, volumes 
in the Bulk segment remained steady, driven 
by in-home consumption as a result of 
restrictions in movement. Higher demand on 
the back of improving consumer sentiment 
particularly in the second and fourth quarters 
of the year also aided the business in 
managing the impact. 
Volume growth in the first quarter, particularly 
the Impulse segment, was significantly 
impacted due to the lockdown across the 
country to contain the spread of COVID-19. 
Whilst the easing of the lockdown in mid-May 
resulted in a strong month-on-month recovery 
of volumes, the resurgence of a COVID-19 
cluster in October 2020 hampered this 
momentum, similar to the Beverage business. 
However, the easing of isolation measures 
thereafter aided the business in managing 
the overall impact on volumes, reaching pre 
COVID-19 levels by March 2021. 
The Frozen Confectionery 
business recorded its highest 
monthly sales volume in 
March 2021 in its history of 
operations. 
Performance of the Bulk 
segment outpaced the 
Impulse segment driven by 
an increase in take-home 
consumption as a result of 
restrictions in movement.
89:11
2019/20: 87:13
CSD:Non-CSD Volume Mix

78   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
CONSUMER FOODS
COVID-19: IMPACT AND MITIGATION - FROZEN CONFECTIONERY
Products launched – 2020/21
Despite the challenges faced by the pandemic, the Frozen Confectionery business diligently 
worked towards the revival of the industry and continued to sustain its market position 
whilst rolling out cash management and cost control measures. 
Impact 
 y
Operations of factories were halted due to the lockdown imposed in March 2020 until the 
end of April 2020. Manufacturing activities commenced thereafter gradually with priority 
being the health and safety of staff.
 y
With the resurgence of cases within one of the factories during the second outbreak, the 
business proactively closed one if its facilities for a very brief period in order to contain the 
spread of the virus. 
 y
Restrictions in movement directly impacted the performance of the Impulse segment, 
resulting in a shift towards in-home consumption during the year under review. 
 y
The out-of-home channel was negatively impacted given reduced social events and 
inbound travel.
Measures taken  
 y
Partnered with delivery platforms such as, 'Uber' and 'PickMe' to cater to rising in-home 
consumption. 
 y
Rural penetration plans were implemented to increase outlet base and business footprint.
 y
Routine mobile operations and door-to-door delivery facilities were made available 
during the lockdown period.
 y
Launched products such as the 1 litre and 4 litre family tubs and wonder bar multipack, to 
cater to the rapid rise in in-home consumption. 
 y
Launched a variety of new products under the Impulse category to maintain momentum 
and customer interest.
 y
Rolled out prudent cost management and efficiency improvement initiatives. 
Popsicles: Choco Knight stick and Cotton Candy stick
Cups: Choco Nut Vanilla and Strawberry and Vanilla
Cones: Blueberry Cheesecake and Almond Crunch
Tubs and multipacks: Wonder Bar multi pack, Salted Caramel 1 Litre tub, and 4 Litre  
Mango ice cream
 y
Despite the impact on Frozen 
Confectionery volumes during 
periods of restrictions, the business 
witnessed a significant increase in 
performance driven by double-digit 
growth in volumes during the second 
and fourth quarters with the easing of 
restrictions. 
 y
Performance of the Bulk segment 
outpaced the Impulse segment 
driven by an increase in take-home 
consumption as a result of restrictions 
in movement.
 y
Volumes in the fourth quarter of the 
previous financial year were impacted 
by the island-wide lockdown for  
~2 weeks in March 2020. 
 y
The Frozen Confectionery business 
recorded its highest monthly sales 
volume in March 2021 in its history of 
operations.
INSIGHTS
Frozen Confectionery Volumes
Index: FY2019 Q1 = 100
FY2019
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
0
30
60
90
120
150
FY2020
FY2021
Given the evolving market landscape, as a 
mitigatory measure, the business proactively 
introduced multi packs and larger pack sizes 
under the Bulk segment in order to cater to 
the increasing in-home consumption. The 
fluctuations in overall volume growth were 
offset, to an extent, through selective price 
increases in certain SKUs. 
51:49
2019/20: 53:47
Bulk:Impulse Revenue Mix
New products introduced during the year.

79
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
The operations of the state-of-the-art ice 
cream facility in Seethawaka, was digitally 
augmented during the year under review, 
with the 'Beelive - Connected Factory' 
project. This project, introduced with the aim 
of interconnecting all isolated plants and 
machinery to improve the operating efficiency, 
focuses on using real-time machine data to 
monitor the ice cream manufacturing process 
in order to achieve optimum performance. 
This is accomplished by setting parameters 
and KPIs to assess production visibility, energy 
efficiency, machine down time and product 
quality, amongst others. Further, the existing 
distributor management system (DMS) was 
replaced with a new DMS titled 'Surge' with 
enhanced facilities during the year.
 y
Gold award - 'Confectionery and 
Beverage Medium scale category' at 
the National Chamber of Exporters 
(NCE) Export Awards.
 y
'Best Performing Exporter in Emerging 
Markets' at NCE Export Awards.
AWARDS
Convenience Foods
Keells Food Products (KFP) recorded a 6 per cent 
decline in volumes in 2020/21 on account of the 
challenging operating environment. The decline 
was primarily attributable to the lacklustre 
performance of the HORECA channel which was 
significantly impacted by minimal activity in the 
tourism industry on the back of the COVID-19 
pandemic. Encouraging growth in retail sausages 
and meatballs, which stood at 44 per cent and 
20 per cent, respectively, aided the business in 
managing the overall volume decline. 
The business continued to maintain its 
market leadership position during the year 
under review. Modern trade accounted for 
37 per cent of volumes, whilst the general 
trade and HORECA channels accounted for 
40 per cent and 18 per cent, respectively. The 
aggressive retail focused drive in the processed 
meat category resulted in retail contribution 
improving to 27 per cent during the year under 
review [2019/20: 17 per cent]. 
Given challenging market conditions and 
subdued consumer demand on the back of 
the COVID-19 pandemic, the performance of 
'Ezy rice' was impacted during the year under 
review. The introduction of new products 
under the dry range segment aided the overall 
impact of this segment on volumes in the 
Convenience Foods business.
KFP launched its first ever direct-to-consumer route to market (RTM) channel titled 'Meat House' to 
strengthen distribution streams. Further, a new DMS which includes 5S and KAIZEN initiatives were 
implemented to increase the operating efficiency of the business. 
During the year under review, KFP focused on expanding its processed meat distribution and 
exploring new market segments. To this end, the business launched the ensuing products:
 y
Two variants of the 'Ezy rice' range, 'Dhaiya rice' and 'Chicken rice' in September 2020. 
 y
Two sausage ranges - 'Frankie Kids Sausages' and 'Chunky Chicken'. 
 y
Soya meat range, a plant-based meat substitute, branded under 'Keells-Krest'.
Preliminary market indications suggest that the products have been well received by the market.
COVID-19: IMPACT AND MITIGATION - CONVENIENCE FOODS 
The Convenience Foods business proactively rolled out measures aimed at ensuring 
seamless product availability whilst also adopting cost saving mechanisms throughout its 
operations. 
Impact 
 y
Post the closure of factories with the imposition of the lockdown, the factory in Pannala 
resumed gradual operations in end March 2020 whilst the factory in Ja-Ela factory 
commenced operations by mid-April 2020.
 y
Restrictions in movement during select periods of the year under review, constrained 
access to small and medium scale general trade outlets and distribution networks, 
thereby disrupting the supply chain and exerting pressure on distributors. 
 y
Partial shutdown of the HORECA channel due to the lacklustre performance of the 
tourism industry which impacted sales.
 y
Supply restrictions in sourcing raw materials.
Measures taken 
 y
The online sales platform titled 'Meat House' was launched in May 2020 to enable the 
delivery of a wide range of products to consumer doorsteps. 
 y
Execution of reward schemes and other focused measures to drive business within the 
general trade outlets.
 y
Whilst KFP operated in accordance with Government health directives, the business 
also rolled out various measures aimed at better managing operations. The business 
continued its production and operations without major interruptions during both 
lockdowns. 
 y
Cost management and spend control measures were proactively rolled out to ensure 
minimal impact to the business.
 y
KFP in collaboration with the 
Industrial Technology Institute of 
Sri Lanka received the Gold Award 
in the Commercial category for 
'Ezy rice' by the Sri Lanka Inventors 
Commission.
AWARDS
New product 'Dhaiya rice' launched during the year.

80   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
CONSUMER FOODS
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT REVIEW
The section that ensues discusses the performance of the industry group during the year under review, under the key forms of Capital applicable for 
the industry group.
Financial and Manufactured Capital
Income Statement Indicators  
Rs.million
2020/21
2019/20
%
Revenue
Frozen Confectionery (FC) and 
Beverages 
13,962
14,400
(3)
Convenience Foods
2,548
2,604
(2)
Total
16,510
17,004
(3)
EBITDA
FC and Beverages 
2,836
3,056
(7)
Convenience Foods
485
352
38
Total
3,321
3,408
(3)
PBT
FC and Beverages 
1,984
2,119
(6)
Convenience Foods
313
211
48
Total 
2,297
2,330
(1)
Given the unprecedented nature of the pandemic and resultant volatility 
of business performance during the year across the quarters, the 
ensuing discussion aims to provide an insight to the performance of the 
sectors across the quarters.
FC and Beverages businesses
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
FC revenue growth (%)
(30)
29
(4)
33
FC volume growth (%)
(36)
19
(11)
30
Beverages revenue growth (%)
(43)
4
(13)
(1)
Beverages volume growth (%)
(44)
(2)
(16)
(1)
FC and Beverages EBITDA  
(Rs.million)
398
818
468
1,153
FC and Beverages EBITDA 
growth (%)
(48)
31
(21)
7
 y
The performance of the FC and Beverages businesses was 
significantly impacted in the first quarter of 2020/21 given the 
imposition of an island-wide lockdown which resulted in a steep 
decline in revenue. Restrictions in movement, particularly during the 
peak sales month of April 2020 resulted in a contraction of volumes, 
contributing to the revenue decline.
 y
Improved consumer sentiment on the back of a gradual relaxation of 
restrictions aided a faster recovery in FC in comparison to Beverages.  
 y
With the onset of the second cluster outbreak in October 2020, 
revenue of the FC and Beverages businesses contracted during 
the third quarter of 2020/21, although notably less severe than the 
decline in the first quarter. 
 y
As market conditions improved towards the latter end of 2020/21, 
FC recorded an encouraging volume growth especially in the month 
of March 2021 whilst the performance of the Beverages business 
remained steady in line with the fourth quarter of 2019/20. It should 
be noted that the fourth quarter of the comparative year included 
the impact of the first lockdown (two weeks in March 2020).
 y
Although the business has witnessed a gradual shift in consumption 
patterns to the Impulse segment in the past, the Bulk:Impulse 
volume mix remained static at 70:30 in the year under review, due to 
an increase in in-home consumption given restrictions in movement 
and health considerations. 
 y
An increase in raw material prices along with factory related expenses 
which stemmed from the adherence to COVID-19 related health and 
safety standards exerted pressure on margins which was partially 
offset through stringent cost reduction measures rolled out across 
the FC and Beverages businesses. 
Convenience Foods 
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Revenue growth (%)
(22)
2
(13)
29
Volume growth (%)
(27)
(2)
(13)
22
EBITDA (Rs.million)
90
136
137
123
EBITDA growth (%)
15
23
6
250
 y
The modern trade channel and general trade channel recorded a 9 
per cent and 26 per cent volume growth, respectively, during the 
year under review, whilst the HORECA channel contracted by 51 per 
cent given the COVID-19 impact on the tourism industry. 
 y
Revenue trends in the Convenience Foods business was similar to 
that of the FC and Beverages businesses where revenue contracted 
in the first and third quarters of 2020/21 which was offset by an 
encouraging growth in the second and fourth quarters of the year 
under review. 
 y
The business faced challenges in sourcing raw materials such as 
chicken and pork due to import restrictions, which exerted pressure 
on input costs. Despite this, the EBITDA margin of the business 
improved to 19 per cent during the year under review [2019/20: 14 
per cent]. 
 y
An effective product mix, focused marketing efforts and cost saving 
initiatives aided the business in improving its margins. It is also 
imperative to note that 2019/20 was characterised by increased 
selling and distribution expenses as a result of branding and 
marketing activities for the launch of 'Ezy rice'.
The recurring EBITDA which excludes fair value gains and losses on 
investment property pertaining to the industry group was recorded at 
Rs.3.32 billion, a marginal 1 per cent decline against the previous year 
[2019/20: Rs.3.37 billion].
Whilst the depreciation charge of the industry group remained in line 
with the previous year, the business recorded notable savings in interest 
costs given the reduction in borrowings at CICL, as outlined below.

81
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
Balance Sheet Indicators
Rs.million
2020/21
2019/20
%
Assets
FC and Beverages 
13,046
12,755
2
Convenience Foods
2,868
2,734
5
Total
15,914
15,489
3
Debt*
FC and Beverages 
2,256
2,919
(23)
Convenience Foods
290
342
(15)
Total
2,546
3,261
(22)
*Excludes lease liabilities.
 y
The FC and Beverages businesses invested in ~2,500 freezers and 
coolers during the year under review. 
 y
Investments pertaining to the advanced data analytics programme, 
a new distribution management system and internet-of-things (IOT) 
system at CICL, amongst others, resulted in an increase in intangible 
assets at the FC and Beverages businesses.
 y
The decrease in debt is primarily attributable to the repayment of 
term loans, obtained in lieu of CICL and the 'Ezy rice' manufacturing 
facility. 
 y
Lease liabilities as at 31 March 2021 stood at Rs.97 million [2019/20: 
Rs.92 million]. Total debt including leases stood at Rs.2.64 billion as at 
31 March 2021 [2019/20: Rs.3.35 billion].
The Consumer Foods industry group accounts for a high proportion 
of the Group's energy and water consumption given the nature of its 
business. Therefore, the industry group places significant emphasis on 
monitoring and managing its environmental impact. 
Whilst all natural resources are carefully monitored and performance 
is evaluated against industry-wide best practice and benchmarks, 
the industry group also strives to make continuous improvements 
through energy and water saving initiatives, use of renewables, and 
reduction in other material consumption to promote environmental 
stewardship.
All operations of the businesses, including supply chain management, 
are carried out in accordance with the Group's Environmental policies, 
whilst adhering to all relevant environmental laws and regulations.
Natural Capital
Carbon Footprint (MT)
13,513 MT
4,106 MT
Frozen Confectionery and Beverages 
Convenience Foods
LOOKING FORWARD: 2025 GOALS
Energy
Water
Steam
Plastic
CCS:  -1.5%
KFP:  -1.5%
CICL:  -2.0%
CCS:  -1.3%
KFP:  -1.5%
CICL:  -2.0%
CCS:  -1.5%
CCS:  -3.5%
Carbon Footprint
KFP:  -1.0%
The industry group has set sustainability goals to be achieved by 
2024/25. The goal is to reduce usage by the below targets, against 
the 2018/19 baseline to consolidate and maintain its sustainability 
performance. 
* All goals are either on a per l/m3 or per kg basis, aside from carbon footprint 
which is on an absolute basis.
Material topics and focus areas are as follows:
Energy and Emissions Management
Relevance: Financial, regulatory and brand reputation implications 
Targets and initiatives during the year:
Energy efficiency
Renewable energy and carbon 
footprint reduction
Certification and Awareness 
 y
Installation of a 125kW capacity variable frequency drive (VFD) 
for the new cold room compressor at the CCS factory in Ranala. 
 y
Installation of 995kW capacity solar panels at the CICL 
factory, with a generation capacity of over 1.2 million kWh of 
renewable energy annually.
 y
CCS continued to generate 196,341 kWh of renewable energy 
in the form of solar power during the year. 
 y
CCS obtained the ISO 14001:2015 certification for its 
environmental management system.
 y
Training sessions were conducted for employees on the 
importance of managing adverse environmental impacts.

82   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
CONSUMER FOODS
Water and Effluents
Relevance: Regulatory and brand reputation implications
Targets and initiatives during the year:
Water treatment
 y
Reuse of water for gardening and general cleaning purposes at 
CCS and KFP.
 y
Regular water quality tests to ensure that all effluents meet 
the requisite water quality standards stipulated in the 
Environmental Protection License (EPL). 
 y
Wastewater at factories was treated through effluent treatment 
plants, prior to discharge.
 y
Conducted sludge dewatering at CCS.
 y
Alignment and monitoring of selected parameters against 
international benchmarks.
CCS continued to place emphasis on polythene and plastic 
reduction through initiatives spanning across the supply chain and 
all product categories. Some of the initiatives piloted included:
 y
Increase in the 500ml pet 
bottle pack size from 12 to 
24 bottles
 y
Reduction in the 500ml pet 
bottle pack wrapper size 
from single layer 80 micron 
to multilayer 60 micron
~40,000 kg of 
polythene reduction 
expected through 
packaging redesign 
once implemented
Carbon footprint scope 1 and 2 per operational intensity factor
2020/21
2019/20
CCS CO2 kg per litre produced 
0.1
0.1
KFP CO2 kg per kg of processed meat produced 
0.9
0.9
CICL CO2 kg per litre produced 
0.5
0.6
Water withdrawal per operational intensity factor
2020/21
2019/20
CCS water withdrawn - litres per litre produced
4.3
4.7
KFP water withdrawn - litres per kg of 
processed meat produced
20.0
16.9
CICL water withdrawn - litres per litre produced
6.4
8.4
Waste generated per operational intensity factor
2020/21
2019/20
CCS waste generated - kg per litre produced
0.01
0.01
KFP waste generated - kg per kg of 
processed meat produced
0.13
0.14
CICL waste generated - kg per litre produced
0.01
0.03
Carbon Footprint (MT)
2019/20
4%
2020/21
17,619
18,357
Water Withdrawn (m3)
2019/20
15%
2020/21
445,759
522,663
Waste Disposed (Kg ‘000)
2019/20
22%
2020/21
1,565
1,996
Given its labour-intensive nature, the industry group places significant 
importance in managing its Human Capital, in order to ensure a safe, 
healthy and nurturing work environment. Emphasis is also placed on 
providing continuous training to develop skills and improve productivity 
of the employees. 
Human Capital 
Number of Employees 
1,004
398
Frozen Confectionery and Beverages
Convenience Foods
Training and Talent Retention
Relevance: Retaining talent and upgrading skills of existing 
employees towards improving overall quality and productivity
Targets and initiatives during the year:
 y
Provided regular feedback and training and development 
opportunities to employees, including training based on 
specific skills targeted at factory employees.
 y
Conducted lean management training at CCS.
 y
Maintained and encouraged a healthy working relationship 
with employee unions through open dialogue and joint 
consultative committees.
Material topics and focus areas are as follows:
POLYTHENE AND PLASTIC REDUCTION

83
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
Health and Safety
Relevance: Labour intensive operations require focus to be 
placed on occupational health and safety to minimise health 
and safety incidents 
Targets and initiatives during the year:
Health and safety 
 y
CCS and KFP obtained ISO 45001:2018 certification for 
occupational health and safety at the factories. 
 y
Organisational processes were streamlined through continuous 
monitoring and process improvements to ensure a safe 
working environment.
 y
Regular health and safety trainings were conducted for 
employees, which covered aspects such as firefighting, rescue, 
first aid, safe chemical handling and food safety.
COVID-19 response
 y
SLSI 1672 certification was obtained for the COVID-19 safety 
management system.
 y
Workplace safety procedures such as screening employees 
prior to entering the premises, equipping employees with 
adequate sanitary facilities and transport arrangements were 
rolled out.
 y
Awareness sessions were conducted on health guidelines and 
safety precautions.
 y
'Work from home' employees were provided with the required 
facilities to ensure seamless business continuity.
 y
Sufficient resources such as isolation rooms were set up to 
cater for infected persons at factories.
 y
Conducted awareness sessions addressing the pandemic and 
on positive mindfulness.
 y
Implemented a transition management programme during the 
COVID-19 pandemic.
 y
Conducted random PCR testing for employees on a weekly basis.
Injuries (Number)
2019/20
79%
2020/21
34
19
Training (Hours)
2019/20
34%
2020/21
27,724
18,267
It is pertinent to note that majority of the injuries were minor in nature 
and no fatalities were recorded in 2020/21.
Creating value for its businesses and value chain partners through 
maintaining and strengthening sustainable relationships is of paramount 
importance to the industry group.
Raw material is sourced from domestic markets, where possible, to 
support the development of local economies and enhance livelihoods 
of local communities. This also allows the businesses to manage the cost 
of raw materials and maintain its social license to operate. 
Product
Total annual supply 
(Kg)
Number of 
farmers
Meat
2,505,541
2,530
Spices
117,373
2,500
Cashew nuts
81,875
1,600
Vanilla
370
2,600
Ginger
28,000
800
Kithul jaggery
36,000
280
Vegetables
216,030
30
Treacle
138,225
155
Fresh milk
3,184,984
800
To further enable sustainable value creation, local farmers benefit from 
guaranteed volumes and price schemes offered by the businesses whilst 
being encouraged to adhere to environmentally friendly and efficient 
agricultural practices.
Number of 
farmers
Total annual 
supply
(Kg'000)
Total annual 
payment
(Rs.million)
KFP
5,060
2,839
973
CCS
6,235
3,469
633
The industry group annually assesses significant suppliers to gauge and 
rectify any negative sustainability impacts as applicable.
SIGNIFICANT SUPPLIERS
 y
Plastic packaging suppliers
 y
Glass bottle suppliers
 y
Dairy suppliers
 y
Poultry suppliers
 y
Sugar suppliers
Social and Relationship Capital 
CCS and KFP continued to source ingredients 
from local farmers, with the aim of improving 
sustainable agricultural practices and 
enhancing livelihoods of diverse communities.

84   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
CONSUMER FOODS
Supply Chain Management
Relevance: Ensuring a continuous supply of raw material which 
reduces risk, enhances brand reputation, and benefits local businesses
Supply chain and sustainable sourcing
CCS and KFP continued to source ingredients from 11,295 local 
farmers, with the aim of improving sustainable agricultural 
practices and enhancing livelihoods of diverse communities. 
CCS
 y
800 ginger farmers benefited from large quantities of dried and 
sliced ginger purchased at guaranteed prices despite lower 
prices prevailing in the market. 
 y
2,600 vanilla farmers benefited from the purchase of vanilla 
bean for natural vanilla extraction used to enhance aroma and 
flavour in products.
 y
280 kithul jaggery farmers in the Southern province continued 
to benefit from the purchasing schemes introduced.
KFP
 y
Continued its sustainable sourcing of poultry, spices, and 
vegetables from 5,060 farmers.
 y
Sourced all ingredients locally, excluding instances of raw 
material shortage. 
 y
Collaborated with suppliers to manage the impact arising from 
import restrictions, including knowledge sharing on potential 
risks and risk mitigation.
Targets and initiatives during the year:
Material topics and focus areas are as follows:
Community Engagement  
Relevance: Engagements with the community to reduce inequality, 
enhance livelihoods and build mutually beneficial relationships
Targets and initiatives during the year:
Livelihood development
John Keells Foundation (JKF) in collaboration with CCS continued 
its business-centric community empowerment initiative, John 
Keells 'Praja Shakthi' in Ranala. Activities organised included:
 y
A 2-month training programme and market linkages for 18 
women engaged in producing paper products aimed at 
enhancing skills and livelihoods.
 y
10 youth benefited from an online programme on e-marketing 
opportunities, conducted by expert volunteers of the Group.
 y
Renovation of a clay mixing machine, benefiting 26 potter 
families. 
COVID-19 relief initiatives
 y
CCS and JKF donated 500 dry ration packs to low-income 
families via the District Secretary of Colombo.
 y
CCS and KFP donated 475 PPE to Medical Officers of Health 
(MOH), hospitals and police stations.
 y
In order to facilitate post-lock down resumption of daily 
activities, CCS supported JKF in installing handwashing stations 
in 3 Grama Niladhari (GN) offices, 2 schools in Ranala and the 
Nawagamuwa police station.
 y
CCS together with John Keells Office Automation donated a 
photocopy machine to the MOH office in Kaduwela.
 y
CCS donated 50,000 milk packets to low-income families, 
children's homes and police stations. 
Vision Screening Programme
 y
CCS continued to support the Vision Screening Programme 
for school children of the Colombo district under JKF's Vision 
Project, in collaboration with the Department of Health 
Services, with 81 students in 15 schools screened and 239 
eyeglasses donated.
JKF and CCS staff examining the paper cutting machine in Ranala.

85
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
The Consumer Foods industry group constantly strives for excellence in 
product quality whilst maintaining safety in its production process and 
managing its supply chain. The businesses have obtained international 
quality standards with assurance renewed annually through third party 
verification. 
Material topics and focus areas are as follows:
Intellectual Capital 
Product Quality and Responsibility
Relevance: Financial, regulatory and brand reputation implications
Targets and initiatives during the year:
Product quality
 y
Responsible reformulation of recipes to ensure the highest 
standards of nutrition and adherence to health regulations and 
guidelines.
 y
Maintenance of ISO 22000:2015 food safety management 
system certification.
 y
Maintenance of ISO 9001 quality management system 
certification.
 y
Formulation of new products and portfolio extensions to create 
value-for-money products through process excellence and 
technological enhancements.  
Responsible labelling and 
marketing communications
 y
Effective and responsible communication of nutrition facts and 
raw materials.
 y
Of the 317 stock keeping units manufactured:
 y
100 per cent carried information on the ingredients used
 y
1 per cent carried information on raw materials sourced
 y
83 per cent and 86 per cent carried information on safe use 
and responsible disposal of products, respectively.

86   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
RETAIL
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
Key Indicators
Inputs (Rs.million)
2020/21
2019/20
%
2018/19
Total assets
 44,412 
 32,351 
 37 
 22,115 
Total equity
 4,795 
 3,420 
 40 
 2,395 
Total debt1
 13,048 
 10,928 
 19 
 10,137 
Capital employed2
 26,876 
 21,859 
 23 
 12,532 
Employees3
 5,864 
 5,115 
 15 
 4,956 
Outputs (Rs.million)
2020/21
2019/20
%
2018/19
Turnover
 70,229 
 64,762 
 8 
 55,750 
EBIT
 3,287 
 3,194 
 3 
 1,534 
PBT
 1,818 
 1,492 
 22 
 253 
PAT
 1,569 
 1,070 
 47 
 33 
EBIT per employee
 1 
 1 
 (10)
 0 
Carbon footprint
 33,168 
 32,480 
 2 
 27,879 
1. Excludes lease liabilities.
2. Includes lease liabilities.
3. As per the sustainability reporting boundary.
Contribution to the John Keells Group
Industry Group Structure 
Supermarkets
 y
JayKay Marketing Services (Private) Limited (JMSL) operates the 'Keells' chain of 
modern retail outlets and the Nexus loyalty programme. 
 y
123 outlets across the island as at 31 March 2021.
 y
~1.4 million Nexus loyalty card members.
 y
Over ~400 'Keells' private-label products.
 y
7 collection centres across the country working with ~2,000 active farmers.
 y
Employment for ~5,700 individuals.
 y
Marketplace for ~1,000 large and small-scale suppliers.
Office Automation
 y
John Keells Office Automation (JKOA) is the authorised distributor for a variety of 
world-class office automation brands.
 y
Sole distributor for Toshiba B&W and colour digital multi-function printers 
(MFPs) and Print-Now-Pay-Later (PNPL) digital copier rental solutions.
 y
National distributor for Samsung smartphones.
 y
Authorised distributor for ASUS commercial series notebooks.
 y
Other products include laser printers, large format displays (LFD), digital 
duplicators, POS systems, receipt and label printers, tabs, accessories, mobiles, 
and projectors from a variety of world class brands.
48%
Revenue
41%
EBIT
6%
Capital 
Employed
40%
Carbon 
Footprint

87
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
MACROECONOMIC UPDATE
 y
Sri Lanka recorded a 3.6 per cent contraction in gross domestic product (GDP) during 
CY2020, primarily on account of the COVID-19 outbreak and the resultant impacts. This 
was a notable slowdown against the 2.3 per cent growth recorded in CY2019. Whilst GDP 
growth was negative in the first half of CY2020, economic activity rebounded, recording a 
1.3 per cent growth, in both the third and fourth quarters of CY2020.
 y
Headline inflation, as measured by the year-on-year change in the National Consumer 
Price Index (NCPI), was recorded at 4.6 per cent in December 2020 driven by notable 
increases in the food category while the annual average headline inflation was recorded 
at 6.2 per cent. 
 y
Core inflation stood at 4.7 per cent in December 2020, while annual average core inflation 
was recorded at 4.1 per cent.
 y
Consumer discretionary spending deteriorated significantly during CY2020, due to 
worsening economic conditions, unprecedented volatility and dampened consumer and 
investor sentiment on the back of COVID-19. Whilst discretionary spending witnessed a 
rebound post the easing of the lockdown in mid-May 2020, the isolation of selected high-
risk areas due to an outbreak of a cluster in early October 2020 re-impacted sentiment. A 
notable rebound in discretionary spending was witnessed towards the latter end of the 
year under review in tandem with the relaxation of isolation measures.
 y
Consumer confidence followed a similar trajectory to discretionary spending during 
the year under review. However, the LMD-Nielsen Business Confidence Index (BCI) was 
recorded at 126 points in March 2021 which was the highest since the onset of the 
pandemic in Sri Lanka.
EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT AND OPERATIONAL REVIEW
Supermarkets
The COVID-19 pandemic resulted in unprecedented challenges for the Supermarket business 
such as a complete closure of outlets to the public, an overnight surge in online orders, supply 
chain disruptions, and challenges in mobilisation of labour to outlets, amongst others, which 
are discussed in detail in the ensuing section. Whilst the disruptions in the first quarter of the 
year under review impacted the business significantly, the easing of movement restrictions from 
mid-May 2020 onwards resulted in a sharp rebound in sales, albeit the short-term impact from the 
second COVID-19 outbreak in early October 2020. The current business momentum continues to 
be encouraging with a rebound in same store sales growth.
The key performance indicators pertaining to the Supermarket business are as follows: 
%
2020/21
2019/20
Same store footfall growth 
(31.5)
1.8
ABV growth 
33.4
2.2
Same store sales growth 
(8.6)
4.0
Given the change in the shopping patterns of customers where the frequency and purchase 
patterns have changed due to consolidation of baskets, the statistics on footfall and basket values 
were distorted during the year under review. As such, the below table provides the quarterly trend 
of the key indicators, depicting the recovery momentum from the fourth quarter onwards.
2020/21
(%)
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Same store footfall growth 
(55.3)
(17.2)
(33.8)
(19.1)
ABV growth 
49.7
18.5
49.6
25.5
Same store sales growth 
(33.1)
(1.9)
(1.0)
1.5
 y
Same store sales in the first quarter in 
the year under review was significantly 
impacted by the island-wide lockdown. 
Revenue was negatively impacted during 
this period, as most of the outlets remained 
closed to the public while online sales 
could not fully offset this impact. 
 y
The easing of restrictions thereafter in mid-
May resulted in a recovery of sales towards 
pre-lockdown levels in the second quarter. 
 y
The cluster outbreak in early October 2020 
triggered panic buying which led to an 
increase in same store sales and average 
basket value (ABV), despite the decline in 
footfall. The business also witnessed an 
increase in the penetration of online sales 
due to the isolation measures which were 
in place. 
 y
The business recorded a recovery in same 
store sales, thereafter, driven by growth in 
ABV on the back of improved consumer 
sentiment, recovery in discretionary 
spending, and changes in shopping 
behaviour in light of COVID-19. 
 y
Whilst same store sales recorded a decline 
due to a contraction in same store footfall, 
this was offset to an extent, by an increase 
in ABV and an increased contribution from 
new store sales which aided the business 
in managing the overall impact on top-line 
performance.
Construction of the 
Kerawalapitiya distribution 
centre (DC) commenced 
during the year. The ~250,000 
sq.ft. state-of-the-art facility, 
located on a 9-acre plot, will 
complement the expansion 
of the outlet network and 
further enhance and improve 
operational processes.
123 outlets
2019/20: 109 outlets
Outlet Footprint

88   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
RETAIL
COVID-19: IMPACT AND MITIGATION – SUPERMARKET BUSINESS 
Although the challenging circumstances that prevailed following the outbreak of COVID-19, 
adversely impacted the business, JMSL remained resilient in its business model, rolling out 
various cost management strategies and augmenting its supply chain to cater to customer 
requirements. 
Impact
 y
With the imposition of a nationwide lockdown from mid-March 2020, all retail outlets in 
the island were closed, to which the Supermarket business was no exception. 
 y
Given the subsequent classification of supermarkets as an essential service by the 
Government during the lockdown period, operations recommenced although limited to 
home delivery during periods of curfew. 
 y
The limited operations of the Supermarket business, dependant on online sales, could not 
fully offset the negative impact on business performance during this period, as outlets 
remained closed to the public.
 y
The Supermarket business encountered challenges in catering to the unprecedented 
surge in demand for online order fulfilment. The challenges in handling the extraordinary 
website traffic were further exacerbated due to staffing constraints. 
 y
With the easing of restrictions on movement thereon, the outlets were gradually opened 
to customers, in conformity with the strict health and safety guidelines issued by the 
Government and health authorities. 
 y
Uncertainty surrounding the pandemic particularly on account of lockdowns, trade 
and supply chain disruptions, and panic buying exerted pressure on supply chain 
management and stock replenishment.
 y
Restrictions on imports on selected products imposed by the Government had a marginal 
impact on the direct import range of the Supermarket business.
Measures taken 
 y
Amidst the numerous challenges on the e-commerce and resources front, the online 
shopping platform of 'Keells' was ramped up within a couple of weeks to handle over 
15,000 orders per day as against 100 orders prior to the pandemic.
 y
Launched the 'Keells' mobile app availing another shopping channel for customers.
 y
During the first lockdown and thereafter, customer orders were also facilitated via an 
outbound call operation (for selected customers), WhatsApp and essential packs via the 
website in addition to routine online orders.
 y
The business continued to enforce additional sanitation, health and safety measures whilst 
proactively taking action to mitigate the spread of COVID-19 through routine random PCR 
tests for staff at outlets. 
 y
Additionally, all 'Keells' outlets adhered to required health and safety protocols and 87 
outlets obtained the Sri Lanka Standards Institute (SLSI) certification for COVID-19 safety 
management systems.  
 y
Implementation of strict cost control measures to manage overheads. 
 y
Strengthened the business's digital presence through initiatives such as continued 
ramping up of the website based on consumer feedback and increased engagement on 
social media in order to create a more personalised interaction with customers.  
 y
Although the investments in the outlet expansion and the distribution centre was put 
on hold with the onset of the pandemic, this was subsequently revisited on a case by 
case basis, with feasibilities stress-tested under extreme sensitised scenarios prior to 
proceeding with the expansion.
 y
In order to build confidence amongst customers and reiterate the COVID-19 safety protocols 
undertaken by the business, the brand campaign 'We're always there for you' was launched 
in September 2020 covering 4 key areas: deals and own label, safety, online, and fresh.
Outlet Expansion
Whilst investments in outlet expansion 
were temporarily put on hold given the 
uncertainty surrounding the pandemic, this 
was subsequently revisited given the positive 
momentum of the business post the easing of 
restrictions in movement. 'Keells' expanded its 
outlet network with the addition of 15 outlets 
to its footprint during the year. The closure of 
1 outlet resulted in a net addition of 14 outlets 
with the total outlet count as at 31 March 2021 
at 123 outlets [2019/20: 109 outlets].
Distribution Centre 
Construction of the Kerawalapitiya distribution 
centre (DC) commenced during the year. 
The ~250,000 sq.ft. state-of-the-art facility, 
located on a 9-acre plot, will complement the 
expansion of the outlet network and further 
enhance and improve operational processes. 
The proposed centre is expected to centralise 
90 per cent of the current modern trade 
offering facilitating operations in the dry, fresh, 
and chilled categories, with the exception 
of the frozen food category. The DC will also 
feature a separate temperature controlled 
chamber. The consolidation of distribution of 
outlets would enable better visibility over the 
supply chain and reduce stock holding costs. 
The total investment amounts to ~Rs.4.6 billion 
and is scheduled for completion in the third 
quarter of 2021/22 with the commencement of 
operations thereafter. 
Product and Process Initiatives
 y
Revamp of 'Keells' website: 
 y
In July 2020, the business revamped its 
online platform enabling a more diverse 
offering and real-time stock availability, 
amongst others, to enable a faster and 
better shopping experience. Real time 
inventory updates, enabling various 
refund methods and delivery tracking 
are some of the features available in 
the newly improved website for an 
enhanced customer experience. 
 y
This ramp up enabled the business 
to handle over 15,000 orders per day 
as against 100 orders prior to the 
pandemic, through multiple delivery 
channels such as pre-packed items and 
more personalised services to its loyalty 
customers.  
 y
Re-introduced 'Click and Collect' where 
customers have the option to place 
orders online and collect this order from 
a selected outlet. 

89
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
 y
Advanced analytics transformation 
programme: 
 y
Further to the successful piloting of 
several well-defined advanced analytics 
use cases focused on the Supermarket 
business in 2019/20, the business 
commenced the roll out of select use 
cases towards the latter end of the year 
under review. It is noted that much of 
the piloting and roll out of identified 
use cases were postponed until such 
time business and consumer behaviour 
returned to a level of normalcy given 
COVID-19 considerations.
 y
Although it is premature to fully assess 
the full impact of these interventions, 
preliminary results are promising and 
indicate higher than expected cash flow 
benefits and enhanced revenue to the 
business.
 y
These interventions were aimed at 
addressing areas such as promotion 
effectiveness, fresh efficacy, and 
marketing outreach.
 y
Introduction of a 'Self Checkout Point' 
in April 2021 for select baskets using 
card payments to ensure a convenient 
shopping experience.
 y
Launch of 47 new 'Keells' private-label 
products, increasing the total SKUs to ~400 
products. Private label products accounted 
for 4 per cent of revenue. 
 y
70 new products were introduced with the 
aim of expanding its direct import channel.
 y
Export quality fish were made available in 
over 40 outlets.
 y
'Most Valuable Supermarket Brand' in 2020 by Brand Finance.
 y
Listed within the top 10 'Most Valuable Brands in Sri Lanka' by LMD and Brand Finance.
 y
Silver award – Service brand at SLIM Brand Excellence awards.
 y
Bronze award – Integrated campaign at SLIM Digis 2.0.
 y
Placed amongst the top 10 in the '25 Most Visible Brands on the Internet in Sri Lanka' by 
the Asia Pacific Institute of Digital Marketing. 
AWARDS
Office Automation 
Despite the challenging macroeconomic landscape, the Office Automation business recorded 
strong growth during the year under review primarily driven by the mobile phone sales which 
recorded double-digit growth in volumes. The segment reached a billion rupees in sales during 
the months of November and December for the first time in history. Growth in mobile phone sales 
was also aided by the introduction of various models by Samsung aimed at different tiers of the 
market, which enabled the business to cater to all market segments.
The copier and printer business segment experienced lacklustre growth given the adoption of 
remote working conditions across most businesses and in lieu of the challenges on the external 
front. The business also witnessed an increase in demand for laptops, given market transitions 
to 'work from home' practices. JKOA continued to maintain its market leadership position in the 
copier vertical during the year under review. 
The business also carried out cost management strategies to manage its overhead costs. Such cost 
management initiatives were also augmented by improved margins in the mobile phone segment 
and better working capital management. 
JKOA was able to secure an exclusive contract with ASUS as the sole distributor of the commercial 
ASUS desktop series during the year under review. The business was also successful in securing a 
number of tenders for laptops and smart boards with Government institutions.  
Self checkout point introduced at 'Keells' outlets.
'Keells' mobile app was launched during the year.
 y
Expansion of the product offering through initiatives such as the introduction of chilled pizzas, 
a new dessert range in quick service restaurants, and fresh flowers in over 10 stores.
 y
The business continued to focus on an omni-channel strategy to cater to different customer 
segments and needs.
 y
Implementation of the 'Keells Advance Network Exchange' (KANE) enabling effective 
collaboration between suppliers to further strengthen its supply chain.
 y
Promotional campaigns such as the 'Keells Smart Family' campaign in collaboration with 
Unilever Sri Lanka and the 'Everyday low price' campaign was launched during selected periods 
of the year in order to expand brand reach and visibility.

90   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
COVID-19: IMPACT AND MITIGATION – JKOA 
Despite the challenges brought about by COVID-19, JKOA 
remained resilient by adopting proactive cost reduction measures 
and implementing efficient operational procedures.  
Impact
 y
The two-month lockdown from mid-March to mid-May 2021 
adversely impacted business given restrictions on movement 
and dampened sentiment. 
 y
Import restrictions, disruptions to global supply chains and 
delays in production exerted pressure on inventory and 
increased risks of stock shortages.
 y
High credit exposure increased risk of bad debts. 
 y
Delivery of products remained a challenge, particularly in 
restricted areas. 
 y
The demand for printers and copiers were impacted by remote 
working conditions and subdued business sentiment. 
Measures taken 
 y
The business lobbied on import restrictions given the adverse 
impact on business. The Government subsequently provided 
clearance to import within a 180-day credit period.
 y
In order to ensure product availability, bulk orders were placed 
well in advance to secure stocks. 
 y
The business rolled out various cost and cash management 
initiatives such as the establishment of debt collection targets 
and rigorous follow ups on debt collection, effective credit 
arrangements and cost management initiatives in liaison with 
Samsung, and implementation of monitoring mechanisms on 
cash flows and costs. 
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
RETAIL
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT REVIEW
The section that ensues discusses the performance of the industry group 
during the year under review, under the key forms of Capital applicable 
for the industry group.
Financial and Manufactured Capital
Income Statement Indicators  
Rs.million
2020/21
2019/20
%
Revenue
Supermarkets 
54,795
53,567
2
Office Automation
15,434
11,195
38
Total
70,229
64,762
8
EBITDA
Supermarkets 
4,144
4,267
(3)
Office Automation
1,379
841
64
Total
5,523
5,108
8
PBT
Supermarkets 
416
925
(55)
Office Automation
1,402
567
147
Total 
1,818
1,492
22
Supermarkets
Given the unprecedented nature of the pandemic and resultant volatility 
of business performance during the year, the ensuing discussion aims 
to provide an insight to the performance of the business across the 
quarters.
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Same store sales (%)
(33.1)
(1.9)
(1.0)
1.5
Revenue growth (%)
(22)
13
9
8
EBITDA (Rs.million)
309
1,069
1,366
1,400
EBITDA growth (%)
(66)
32
4
14
 y
As outlined in the operational review, performance was significantly 
impacted in the first quarter given the imposition of an island-wide 
lockdown. Revenue was negatively impacted during this period, as 
most of the outlets remained closed to the public while online sales 
could not fully offset this impact.
 y
The easing of restrictions in mid-May resulted in a strong rebound, 
with new outlets contributing towards overall revenue growth whilst 
same store sales recovered significantly.
 y
The business continued its positive momentum witnessed in the 
second quarter, despite the resurgence of the cluster outbreak 
in early October and the resultant isolation measures imposed in 
certain areas. Significant growth was witnessed in online sales due to 
the isolation measures which were in place. 
 y
Revenue growth continued to stem from a higher contribution 
from new outlets, whilst same store sales growth recovered further. 
Business momentum continued during the fourth quarter.
 y
The Supermarket business maintained a positive EBITDA throughout 
the year by adopting prudent cost management measures.
JKOA showroom at the One Galle Face Mall.

91
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
Given the ongoing expansion of the Supermarket business and the 
inherent environmental impacts entailing such expansions, operations 
are conducted in accordance with the Group's Environmental policies, 
with strict adherence to all required environmental laws and regulations.
Natural Capital
Carbon Footprint (MT)
32,959 MT
209 MT
Supermarkets
Office Automation 
 y
The EBITDA margin of the Supermarket business stood at 7.6 per cent 
[2019/20: 8.0 per cent]. The marginal reduction stems from a lower 
absorption of fixed costs at existing outlets due to the decrease in 
same store revenue as well as a decline in merchandising income. 
 y
Interest expenses increased marginally by 4 per cent mainly due to 
an increase in the notional interest charge stemming from SLFRS 
16 – the accounting standard on leases. The interest cost incurred on 
funding of new outlets declined in comparison to 2019/20 due to the 
prevailing low interest regime. 
 y
The business claimed an enhanced capital allowance in relation to 
the advanced analytical transformation project which resulted in a 
PAT of Rs.522 million, against a PBT of Rs.416 million.
Office Automation
 y
Despite the challenging environment, the business recorded a strong 
performance with revenue increasing by 38 per cent on account of 
a 25 per cent growth in mobile phone volumes. With the imposition 
of import restrictions, which increased risk of supply shortages, the 
business proactively rolled out measures to drive sales and became 
the first to market new Samsung mobile models. 
 y
In addition to the aforementioned revenue growth, profitability 
was also aided by stringent cost controls and better working capital 
management. Initiatives such as rigorous follow-up on collections 
and working towards a higher proportion of sales on a cash basis, 
reduced the overall impact on profitability and the cash position.
 y
The business surpassed the one billion mark in profitability for the 
first time in its history with PBT at Rs.1.40 billion, a 147 per cent 
increase against the previous year. 
Balance Sheet Indicators
Rs.million
2020/21
2019/20
%
Assets
Supermarkets 
35,441
29,022
22
Office Automation
8,971
3,329
169
Total
44,412
32,351
37
Debt*
Supermarkets 
13,047
9,941
31
Office Automation
1
987
(100)
Total
13,048
10,928
19
*Excludes lease liabilities.
Supermarkets
 y
The increase in the asset base primarily stems from the continued 
expansion of the outlet base and a notable increase in intangible assets.
 y
The business recognised Rs.1.00 billion under intangible assets in lieu 
of the roll out of the advanced analytical transformation programme, 
upgrade of the SAP system, development of the vendor collaboration 
portal and the 'Keells' website amongst others. 
 y
The increase in debt is driven by higher borrowings to fund the 
planned outlet expansion strategy and the ongoing construction of 
the distribution centre. 
 y
Lease liabilities as at 31 March 2021 stood at Rs.9.01 billion [2019/20: 
Rs.7.45 billion]. Total debt including leases stood at Rs.22.06 billion as 
at 31 March 2021 [2019/20: Rs.17.39 billion]. 
Office Automation 
 y
The increase in assets is driven by an increase in inventory and trade 
and other receivables in line with higher operational performance. 
 y
Whilst the cash position of the business strengthened during the 
year, the business was also able to reduce bank overdrafts and  
short-term borrowings, given improved operational performance of 
the business and better working capital management. 
Material topics and focus areas are as follows:
Energy and Emissions 
Relevance: Financial, regulatory, and brand reputation implications
Targets and initiatives during the year:
Renewable energy and carbon footprint reduction
 y
Installation of solar power systems in 10 'Keells' outlets, 
resulting in a total of 66 outlets using renewable energy as at 
31 March 2021. This resulted in ~9.2 million kWh of renewable 
energy generated, constituting 16 per cent of the total energy 
requirement.
 y
Implementation of an energy efficient building design for 
'Keells' outlets using skylights, LED lights, and efficient cooling 
systems.
LOOKING FORWARD: 2025 GOALS
The Supermarket business has set sustainability goals to be 
achieved by 2024/25. This goal is aimed at improving renewable 
energy usage.
Energy
125% increase in solar photovoltaic (PV) energy generation 
across the Supermarket business.

92   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
RETAIL
LOOKING FORWARD: 2025 GOALS
The Supermarket business has set sustainability goals to be 
achieved by 2024/25. This goal is aimed at reducing plastic usage. 
Plastic
 y
50% reduction in all single-use polythene bags at 'Keells' outlets 
by 2025.
 y
Reduce by 50% in-store single-use packaging for fresh food by 
ensuring they are reusable, recyclable or compostable by 2025.
Waste and Effluent 
Relevance: Regulatory and brand reputation implications and 
stakeholder expectations for plastic management
Targets and initiatives during the year:
Water treatment and waste management
 y
Reuse of wastewater for gardening and general cleaning 
purposes at selected 'Keells' outlets. 
 y
Regular water quality tests conducted for all applicable outlets 
to ensure that all effluents meet the requisite water quality 
standards.
'KEELLS' PLASTIC PROMISE
In line with the promise of reducing single-use plastics by 50 
per cent by 2024/25, the Supermarket business undertook the 
following initiatives: 
 y
In addition to the 'Keells' green bag, a range of new eco-
friendly reusable bags were introduced to minimise the use of 
polythene bags and encourage reuse. 
 y
BYOB (Bring Your Own Bag) and BYOC (Bring Your Own 
Container) initiatives continued during the year. A Rs.4 discount 
was offered per bag/container. 
 y
Compostable bags were provided at fish, meat, fruit, and 
vegetable counters. 
 y
Paper straws were made available at juice counters.
 y
'Plasticcycle', the Group's social entrepreneurship project, 
encouraged customers to recycle plastic items by placing 
recycling bins for disposal at outlets. 
 y
Compostable bags were used for top crust bread packaging.
MONTHLY IMPACT 
 y
~40,000+ re-usable bags sold 
 y
~40,000+ bags reused 
 y
~130,000+ plastic straws reduced 
 y
~900+ kg of plastic collected at 43 'Plasticcycle' bins at outlets
Carbon footprint scope 1 and 2 per operational intensity factor
2020/21
2019/20
JMSL CO2 kg per sq.ft. of outlet area
30.6 
31.7
JKOA CO2 kg per sq.ft. of office space
10.7 
13.6
Water withdrawal per operational intensity factor
2020/21
2019/20
JMSL water withdrawn - litres per sq.ft. of 
outlet area
234.5 
229.7
Waste generated per operational intensity factor
2020/21
2019/20
JMSL waste generated - kg per sq.ft. of 
outlet areas
3.2 
2.6
* Water usage and waste generated for JKOA are not disclosed as they are not 
considered to be material.
The 'Keells' Plastic Promise has committed 
the Supermarket business to reducing 
single-use plastics by 50 per cent by 2024/25.
Carbon Footprint (MT)
2019/20
2%
2020/21
33,168
32,480
Water Withdrawn (m3)
2019/20
8%
2020/21
254,866
236,479
Waste Disposed (Kg ‘000)
2019/20
29%
2020/21
3,399
2,645

93
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
Given the nature of operations, both the Supermarket and Office 
Automation businesses find labour retention a key challenge. As such, 
the Retail industry group places significant emphasis on retaining its 
workforce through regular training aimed at sharpening employee skills, 
increasing productivity, and career development. It is noted that the 
industry group implemented robust safety measures to ensure the health 
and safety of frontline staff who worked tirelessly during the pandemic. 
Human Capital 
Number of Employees 
5,694 
170
Supermarkets
Office Automation 
Material topics and focus areas are as follows:
Health and Safety
Relevance: Ensuring a safe and healthy work environment for all 
employees to minimise health and safety related incidences 
Targets and initiatives during the year:
Health and safety 
COVID-19 response
 y
Occupational safety training programmes were conducted at 
staff inductions in Supermarkets.
 y
Safety gear was provided to staff in Supermarkets. 
 y
In-store and digital awareness materials were made available to 
staff in Supermarkets. 
 y
JMSL developed an e-module on preventing and addressing 
sexual harassment in the workplace under JKF's 'Project WAVE', 
which benefited 3,171 employees.
 y
SLSI 1672 certification was obtained for the COVID-19 safety 
management system at selected 'Keells' outlets.
 y
Transport arrangements were provided to staff, as applicable. 
 y
Welfare packages were provided to employees during quarantine.
 y
Essential packs were provided to the families of employees 
working at outlets amidst the pandemic. 
 y
Random PCR and rapid antigen tests were conducted for 
employees. 
 y
Meal coupons were provided for staff on duty. 
 y
Additional payments were made to staff who served during 
the lockdown as an appreciation of their efforts.
 y
Group employees were given the opportunity to join as 
'freelance/part time employees' to assist with packaging and 
delivery operations. 
 y
Regular safety audits were conducted at outlets to ensure 
adherence to all health and safety guidelines. 
 y
Staff members were provided with personal protective equipment. 
 y
Regular awareness sessions were conducted on safety guidelines.
Training and Talent Retention
Relevance: The need to retain talent and continuously upgrade 
skills of existing staff to enable delivery of superior customer 
service excellence
Targets and initiatives during the year:
Training and development
 y
Implementation of fast-track programmes that facilitate 
faster career progression, where selected outlet employees 
were presented with the opportunity to progress into higher 
designations within a short time frame based on performance. 
 y
The 'Keells Retail Academy' digital learning platform provided 
both head office and outlet employees the opportunity to 
complete learning modules online and develop skills. The 
portal, with over 40 different courses and quizzes, has recorded 
over 1,800 unique users since April 2020. 
 y
'Train the trainer' programme is a partnership in collaboration 
with the Vocational Training Authority of Sri Lanka (VTA) to 
provide opportunities for VTA bakery and cookery instructors to 
enhance their operational and industry knowledge. 
 y
Training in collaboration with National Apprentice and 
Industrial Training Authority (NAITA) allowing 'Keells' 
Supermarket team members to obtain certifications for certain 
levels of the National Vocational Qualification (NVQ).
 y
A digitisation training workshop was conducted for NAITA 
members, to assist them in developing their respective 
Learning Management System (LMS) and convert content in 
order to make e-learning more effective. 
Injuries (Number)
2019/20
27
4%
26
2020/21
Training (Hours)
2019/20
214,966
26%
158,962
2020/21
It is pertinent to note that a majority of the injuries were minor in nature 
and no fatalities were recorded in 2020/21.

94   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
RETAIL
Given the high degree of reliance on the Retail industry group's supply 
chain partners, significant emphasis is placed on developing mutually 
beneficial relationships with all stakeholders. Whilst dissemination 
of knowledge and best practices support the supply chain, this also 
empowers the livelihoods of diverse communities and contributes to the 
development of the local economy. The industry group also engages in 
various initiatives aimed at addressing the needs of the communities. 
The Supermarket business proactively engages with its diverse farmer 
communities, to create awareness on good manufacturing practices and 
to promote sustainable farming initiatives conducted through qualified 
third-party consultants. 
Number of 
farmers
Total annual 
supply 
(Kg'000)
Total annual 
payment  
(Rs.million)
JMSL
2,440
26,886
3,488
Businesses in the industry group annually assess significant suppliers, 
including outsourced services, to gauge and remedy any negative 
sustainability impacts, as applicable.
SIGNIFICANT SUPPLIERS
 y
Dry food product suppliers
 y
Frozen and chilled product suppliers
 y
Fresh meat suppliers
 y
Vegetable and fruit suppliers
 y
Household item suppliers
 y
Third party tenants (within premises)
 y
Janitors
 y
Security
Social and Relationship Capital 
Material topics and focus areas are as follows:
Farmer with fresh produce for JMSL supply.
Dissemination of knowledge and best 
practices support the supply chain, while also 
empowering and improving the livelihoods of 
diverse communities and contributing to the 
development of the local economy.
 y
JMSL in partnership with the National Entrepreneurial 
Development Association, conducted 'Wyawasaayaka Saviya' - 
a 30-hour training programme on successfully launching new 
products, for 18 selected small business owners. 
 y
'Keells Podi Business Thena' was initiated to support small 
business owners by providing space at car parks at selected 
outlets to set up seasonal stalls by allocating special bays in 13 
stores for 12 selected small-scale suppliers and using 'Keells' 
social media platforms to promote over 30 small businesses.
 y
JMSL continued to provide free technical assistance to over 
2,500 farmers. 
 y
A Farmer Management System (FMS) was established to 
effectively manage and track farmers to ensure productivity. 
Over ~4,000 farmers have registered in the system. 
 y
JMSL supported 'Agri Saviya - Marketing Asswedduma' 
entrepreneurial programme through a sponsorship to build a 
national link to connect with Sri Lanka's grass roots, enabling 
potential agripreneurs to transform from today's commodity 
mindset to a mindset focused on agricultural value addition.
 y
Good Agricultural Practices (GAP) certified produce was 
sourced from 9 green houses. This initiative is expected to 
produce 100-140 kg of vegetables per week from each green 
house. 
 y
An introductory programme on the Good Manufacturing 
Practices (GMP) certification was organised for small scale 
suppliers, of which a selected number of suppliers were chosen 
to provide guidance in preparation for the GMP certification 
audit.
 y
With the aim of aiding small-scale suppliers, processes were 
set up to ensure payments were released early during the 
pandemic. 
 y
Donations were made to 190 farmers in Sooriyawewa during 
the pandemic. 
 y
Under John Keells Foundation's 'Skill into Progress' (SKIP) 
programme, 12 small medium enterprise (SME) owners are 
being empowered with English communication skills through 
a 36-hour, customised, industry related skill development 
programme.
Supply chain and sustainable sourcing
Supply Chain Management
Relevance: Ensure a continuous supply of raw material which 
reduces risk, enhances brand reputation, and benefits local 
businesses. Build ongoing and sustainable relationships in order to 
promote social responsibility and integration across the supply chain
Targets and initiatives during the year:

95
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
 y
JMSL collaborated with JKF on the following strategic 
initiatives:
 y
37 disadvantaged school children in Sooriyawewa and 
Ratmalana were awarded scholarships under JKF's English 
Language Scholarship Programme. 
 y
125 school children from Welimada, Sigiriya, Ratmalana, 
Sooriyawewa and Jaffna who completed the scholarship 
programme participated in virtual English day events and 
a student from Jaffna was selected as one of the winners 
under the North and Eastern Province category. 
 y
8 disadvantaged youth were awarded scholarships under 
JKF's Higher Education Scholarship Programme to pursue 
higher studies at a State university.
 y
Entry level jobs were provided for 18 youth affected by the 
lack of job opportunities in the aftermath of the COVID-19 
outbreak. 
 y
A total of 100 personal protective equipment (PPE) and 
2,500 KN95 masks were distributed among the Public Health 
Department, Hospitals and the Ministry of Health. 
 y
Under JMSL's Food Redistribution initiative, ~40 'Keells' 
outlets in partnership with selected non-profit organisations, 
redistributed over 800 kg of excess fresh produce on a weekly 
basis. 
 y
Food supplies for the Infectious Diseases Hospital (IDH), 
Medical Research Institute and Armed Forces were provided 
together with a sponsorship towards the Psychological First Aid 
Model for health care professionals.
 y
JKOA together with CCS donated a photocopy machine to the 
MOH office in Kaduwela to support the rising administrative 
requirements related to COVID-19 prevention.
Community Engagement
Targets and initiatives during the year:
Relevance: Build ongoing and sustainable relationships in order to 
promote social responsibility and integration within the community
Community engagement and COVID-19 initiatives
The Retail industry group constantly strives for excellence in product and 
service quality whilst maintaining safety in its processes. 
Material topics and focus areas are as follows:
Intellectual Capital 
Product Quality and Responsibility
Relevance: Financial, regulatory and brand reputation implications
Other initiatives
 y
The 'Keells' website was revamped to promote a better user-
friendly interface experience which includes:
 y
Utility bill payments
 y
Orders delivered within 24 hours
 y
Real time stock updates
 y
Deals and offers made available online
 y
Click and collect feature
 y
Cash refunds on delivery and collection
 y
The supplier collaboration platform, 'Keells Advance Network 
Exchange' (KANE), supported providing the complete 
B2B trade life cycle starting from onboarding till payment, 
enhancing order visibility and order processing for suppliers.
Targets and initiatives during the year:
Product quality, responsible labelling, and 
marketing communications
 y
JMSL obtained SLS 1432 (SMMS) certification for 99 outlets and 
SLS 143 (GMP) certification for 107 outlets.
 y
Of the 441 stock keeping units sourced by JMSL for private 
labelling;
 y
64 per cent carried information on the ingredients used
 y
1 per cent carried information on raw materials sourced 
 y
40 per cent and 97 per cent carried information on safe use, 
and responsible disposal of products, respectively
 y
Formulation of new products and portfolio extensions to create 
value-for-money products. 
 y
JKOA continued to be the authorised distributor of mobile 
devices for Samsung in Sri Lanka, whilst also maintaining a 
product portfolio of other world-renowned brands such as 
Toshiba, ASUS, and RISO.
~40 'Keells' outlets in partnership with 
selected non-profit organisations, 
redistributed over 800 kg of excess fresh 
produce on a weekly basis under JMSL's  
Food Redistribution initiative.

96   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
LEISURE 
Key Indicators
Inputs (Rs.million)
2020/21
2019/20
%
2018/19
Total assets
 98,324 
 98,335 
 (0)
 78,681 
Total equity
 52,907 
 59,409 
 (11)
 62,201 
Total debt1
 20,743 
 16,034 
 29 
 6,093 
Capital employed2
 89,765 
 88,865 
 1 
 68,294 
Employees3
 3,819 
 4,542 
 (16)
 4,434 
Outputs (Rs.million)
2020/21
2019/20
%
2018/19
Turnover4
 5,374 
 17,754 
 (70)
 24,113 
EBIT
 (7,336)
 (905)
 (711)
 2,714 
PBT
 (8,527)
 (1,540)
 (454)
 1,868 
PAT
 (7,598)
 (1,548)
 (391)
 1,473 
EBIT per employee
 (2)
 (0)
 (864)
 1 
Carbon footprint
 24,360 
 31,510 
 (23)
 35,382 
1. Excludes lease liabilities.
2. For equity accounted investees, capital employed is representative of the Group's equity investment in these 
companies. This is inclusive of lease liabilities.
3. As per the sustainability reporting boundary.
4. Revenue is inclusive of the Group's share of equity accounted investees.
Contribution to the John Keells Group
Industry Group Structure 
Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts
COLOMBO HOTELS
 y
Two hotels offering ~34 per cent 
of the 5-star room capacity of 
Colombo.
 y
'Cinnamon Grand Colombo' - 
501 rooms.
 y
'Cinnamon Lakeside Colombo' - 
346 rooms.
 y
'Cinnamon Red Colombo', a lean 
luxury hotel in Colombo – 243 
rooms.
 y
24 restaurants run across the three 
properties.
SRI LANKAN RESORTS 
 y
Resorts spread across prime tourist 
locations in Sri Lanka, leveraging on 
the natural diversity of the country. 
 y
8 resort hotels.
 y
1,022 rooms.
MALDIVIAN RESORTS
 y
Resorts located across the Maldives 
offering unique experiences and 
panoramic views. 
 y
4 resort hotels. 
 y
454 rooms.
Hotel Management 
 y
Cinnamon Hotel Management Limited (CHML), the hotel management arm of the 
Leisure industry group.
Destination Management
 y
Two destination management companies in Sri Lanka:
 y
Walkers Tours 
 y
Whittall Boustead Travel
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
4%
Revenue
(93%)
EBIT
22%
Capital 
Employed
30%
Carbon 
Footprint

97
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT AND OPERATIONAL REVIEW
Timeline: COVID-19 Impact on Leisure
Mar 20
Apr 20
May 20
Jun 20
Jul 20
Aug 20
Oct 20
Sep 20
Nov 20
Dec 20
Jan 21
Feb 21
Mar 21
Mid-March
Imposition of an 
island-wide curfew in 
Sri Lanka. Due to the 
closure of airports and 
ports for international 
travel, both in Sri Lanka 
and the Maldives, the 
Group suspended its 
hotel operations.
Mid-March
Group hotels 
implemented aggressive 
cost saving and cash 
management initiatives 
to minimise the cash 
burden on operations. 
Mid-May onwards
Surge in domestic 
tourism within  
Sri Lanka with the 
easing of lockdown 
measures.
Mid-July onwards
Group properties in the Maldives witnessed 
a gradual recovery post the opening of 
airports in the Maldives, with occupancy at 
~50 per cent from December 2020 onwards.
Mid-February
Commencement of COVID-19 
vaccination programme for 
select age groups and frontline 
workers. Gradual recovery in 
domestic consumption and 
tourism.
Mid-May 
Easing of 
restrictions within 
Sri Lanka resulting 
in the gradual re-
opening of the  
Sri Lankan hotels 
and resorts.
Mid-July
The Maldives  
re-opened its borders 
for tourism.
October
Second COVID-19 wave in 
Sri Lanka and imposition of 
curfew in select parts of the 
country.
As a result, domestic tourism 
witnessed a notable decline.
Late-January
Sri Lanka re-opened all 
international airports for 
international tourism.
'Cinnamon Bentota Beach' 
and 'Cinnamon Bey Beruwala' 
commenced operations as 
'Safe & Secure Level 1 Hotels' 
for tourists travelling under 
the 'bio-bubble' concept.
Refer pages 99 and 101 for the detailed impact of COVID-19 on Group properties in Sri Lanka and  
the Maldives.
MACROECONOMIC UPDATE – SRI LANKA
Industry Highlights
 y
Sri Lanka closed its borders for inward travel with effect from 19 March 2020 
to mitigate the spread of COVID-19.
 y
Whilst the Mattala International Airport was opened for select tourists on 28 
December 2020 on a pilot project to re-commence tourism in the country, 
both the Bandaranaike International Airport and the Mattala International 
Airport was officially re-opened to tourists on 21 January 2021, under 
stringent guidelines and safety protocols of the health authorities.
 y
Against this backdrop, as evident by the graph below, tourist arrivals in 
CY2020 were impacted by the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic and the 
resultant closure of the airports.
0
50
100
150
200
250
Arrivals  (’000)
Tourist Arrivals to Sri Lanka
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
228
2
208
71
3
5
-
4
0.4
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
2020
2021
 y
Tourist arrivals to Sri Lanka stood at 507,704 for CY2020, a 74 per cent 
decrease against the previous year [CY2019: 1,913,702 arrivals].
 y
Total arrivals during January to March 2021 stood at 9,629 arrivals compared 
to 507,311 arrivals recorded in the corresponding period of last year. 
 y
Key source markets driving arrivals during this period was India, followed by the 
United Kingdom (UK) and Russia. 
COVID-19 Measures 
 y
The Government developed and issued a 
comprehensive set of COVID-19 guidelines for 
inbound tourism.
 y
Tourists arriving at present are required to follow 
rigorous procedures and health and safety 
protocols and are required to stay at Government 
approved hotels, referred to as 'Safe & Secure Level 
1 Hotels', until the completion of the applicable 
period of quarantine. Quarantined guests are 
permitted to travel to select attractions, declared 
as 'bio-bubble' areas, subject to quarantine 
requirements.  
 y
An independent audit firm was appointed 
to conduct detailed audits for 'Safe & Secure' 
certification. 
 y
The Australian Aid programme through Skills for 
Inclusive Growth (S4IG) conducted a pandemic 
preparedness course under the direction of the 
Sri Lanka Tourism Development Authority (SLTDA) 
targeting small and medium sized enterprises of 
the hospitality industry. 
 y
Various relief measures were made available to the 
tourism sector by the Government, via the Central 
Bank of Sri Lanka. This included debt moratoria on 
interest and capital repayments, working capital, 
overdraft and trade financing facilities, moratoria on 
utilities, and interest rate caps, amongst others.
Refer the Outlook section for details on the ongoing impact of the current outbreak in  
Sri Lanka - Page 134

98   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
Key Policy and Regulatory  
Highlights
 y
Inbound tour operators registered with 
SLTDA were exempt from value added 
tax (VAT) with effect from 1 April 2020, 
subject to Parliamentary approval.
 y
The Government has proposed 
amendments to the Tourism Act, 
which includes the amalgamation 
of different functions of Sri Lanka 
Tourism under one authority, which 
is currently under discussion with 
various stakeholders. 
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
LEISURE
 y
LMD's Most Valuable Hospitality Brand 
in Sri Lanka 2020.
 y
Sri Lanka's Leading Business Hotel at 
the World Travel Awards – 'Cinnamon 
Grand Colombo'.
 y
Booking.com - Traveller Review 
Award - 'Cinnamon Grand Colombo', 
'Cinnamon Lakeside Colombo', and 
'Cinnamon Red Colombo'.
 y
TripExpert - Expert's Choice Award 
- The Best Hotel in Colombo – 
'Cinnamon Red Colombo'.
AWARDS
Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts
Colombo Hotels 
In line with the overall industry, the Colombo 
Hotels segment was severely impacted following 
the outbreak of COVID-19, with operations 
coming to a complete standstill for a period 
of over 3 months. Occupancy, average room 
rates and meetings, incentives, conferences and 
exhibitions (MICE) events declined to a record 
low during the year under review. However, with 
the resumption in domestic activity following 
the easing of lockdown measures, the segment 
noted an increase in food and beverage and 
banqueting activities. Whilst the isolation 
measures adopted by the authorities due to 
the second wave of the COVID-19 outbreak in 
early October 2020, dampened this momentum, 
the subsequent gradual easing of restrictions 
enabled the segment to gather momentum. 
Given that the Colombo Hotels segment is 
dependent on business travel, room revenue 
at all properties across the Colombo Hotels 
segment were negatively affected. 
The former 'Taprobane' restaurant at 'Cinnamon 
Grand Colombo' which was closed for 
refurbishment following the terrorist explosion 
that occurred on Easter Sunday, 21 April 2019, 
was re-opened as 'Plates' – a 24-hour gourmet 
dining venue with an unparalleled collective of 
tastes and flavours from around the world.
Given the public's increased in-home 
consumption due to movement restrictions, 
the Colombo Hotels segment launched 
'Flavours', a restaurant delivery platform offering 
a variety of cuisines from restaurants and cafés 
of 'Cinnamon Grand Colombo' and 'Cinnamon 
Lakeside Colombo' to further augment its food 
and beverage offering and reach.
MACROECONOMIC UPDATE –  
SRI LANKA
Sri Lankan Resorts 
Whilst the closure of airports, imposition of 
nationwide lockdowns and restrictions in 
domestic travel significantly impacted the  
Sri Lankan Resorts segment, similar to several 
other countries, the gradual resumption of 
domestic travel post the easing of restrictions 
in movement was encouraging. Although the 
Sri Lankan airports remained closed for foreign 
arrivals till end-January 2021, the resumption 
of domestic travel continued during the year, 
with all properties in the Sri Lankan Resorts 
segment recording an encouraging increase in 
occupancy. Although the cluster outbreak of 
COVID-19 in Sri Lanka in early October impeded 
this recovery, to an extent, the subsequent  
easing of restrictions aided the segment in 
gathering pace.
The SLTDA initiated a post COVID-19 action plan 
to revive the tourism sector. In furtherance to 
this, the Government opened the airports for 
international travel subject to the adherence to 
stringent guidelines. Such regulations stipulate 
that tourists are required to stay at Government 
approved hotels, referred to as 'Safe & Secure 
Level 1 Hotels', until the completion of their 
quarantine period. 'Cinnamon Bentota Beach' 
and 'Cinnamon Bey Beruwala' were operated 
as 'Safe & Secure Level 1 Hotels' under these 
guidelines and protocols, until the recent 
outbreak.
'Hikka Tranz by Cinnamon' was closed for 
refurbishment during the year under review, 
for a structural repair which was earmarked 
prior to the outbreak of the pandemic. 
'Cinnamon Red Kandy', a joint venture with 
Indra Traders (Private) Limited is currently 
under construction and will be opened in the 
second half of 2022/23.
 y
'LEED Platinum' status by the United 
States Green Building Council – 
'Cinnamon Bentota Beach'
 y
Gold award at the South Asian Travel 
Awards (SATA) – Leading riverfront 
hotel/resort category – 'Cinnamon 
Citadel Kandy'
 y
Silver award at SATA - Leading wildlife 
lodge – 'Cinnamon Wild Yala'
 y
Silver award at SATA – Leading F&B 
hotel/resort – 'Cinnamon Bey Beruwala'
 y
Bronze award at HSMAI Adrian Awards 
- Integrated marketing plan and 
recovery campaign – 'Cinnamon Hotels 
& Resorts'
AWARDS
Awards
Sri Lanka continued to gain traction 
during the year, securing numerous 
awards and accolades:
 y
Received a 'Safe Travels Stamp' from 
the World Travel and Tourism Council.
 y
Awarded 'World's Leading Emerging 
Tourism Destination 2020' and 
'Asia's Leading Adventure Tourism 
Destination 2020' at the World Travel 
Awards 2020.
 y
Listed as one of the 'Best Holiday 
Destinations for 2020' by The Times, UK.
 y
Ranked amongst CNN Travel's '20 Best 
Places to Visit in 2020'.
 y
Awarded 'Back on the Map' award 
at Wanderlust Travel Awards 2020 in 
London.
 y
Featured as a 'Top Destination to 
Travel in February 2020' by Condé 
Nast Traveller, Middle East.
 y
Rated as the second-best destination 
after Italy, at USA and UK Condé Nast 
Traveller magazine Readers Choice 
Awards 2020.
The former 'Taprobane' restaurant at 'Cinnamon Grand 
Colombo' was re-opened as 'Plates'.
Refer the Property industry group review for a 
discussion on 'Cinnamon Life' - Page 109

99
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
COVID-19: LEISURE - IMPACT AND MITIGATION AT PROPERTIES IN SRI LANKA 
With the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic in Sri Lanka, the country witnessed the 
imposition of stringent measures to control the transmission of COVID-19 and, as a result, 
closed its airports for tourist arrivals and restricted domestic travel from mid-March 2020 
onwards. Due to the absence of tourist arrivals and the restrictions in movement in lieu 
of the lockdowns imposed by the Government, the Group suspended its operations in 
the Sri Lankan and Maldivian Resorts segments and significantly curtailed operations 
in the Colombo Hotels segment, thereby saving on operating costs. In addition, the 
businesses rolled out proactive cost containment and productivity improvement 
measures aimed at managing its funding position. 
It is noted that the full complement of the Group's hotels was available for operations 
just prior to the onset of the pandemic.
With the gradual relaxation of restrictions and the easing of the lockdown from mid-May 
2020 onwards, all hotels in Sri Lanka, with the exception of 'Hikka Tranz by Cinnamon', 
were opened to the public from June 2020 onwards, in accordance with the stringent 
health and safety guidelines issued by the Government.
The aforementioned relaxation of restrictions contributed to an increase in domestic activity, 
with a gradual resumption in domestic travel contributing positively to the performance of 
the industry group. The recovery in domestic tourism was hampered following the second 
wave of the COVID-19 outbreak in early October 2020, which impacted all properties 
in Sri Lanka. The latter end of the period under review was characterised by positive 
developments such as the roll out of COVID-19 vaccines, re-opening of both international 
airports in Sri Lanka for tourism coupled with better sentiment. 
Impact 
 y
Similar to global tourism, the Leisure industry group was significantly impacted, with 
limited or no operations at all properties during most parts of the year.
 y
Post the easing of restrictions in mid-May, all properties in the Sri Lankan Resorts 
segment recorded an encouraging increase in occupancy, driven by a resumption in 
domestic travel, albeit the impact of the second outbreak in October 2020.
 y
The uptick in domestic activity, during this time, translated to an increase in food 
and beverage and banqueting revenue in the Colombo Hotels segment, although 
restrictions in guest count at gatherings hampered potential revenue. 
 y
Closure of airports and increase in virtual business platforms adversely impacted MICE 
tourism, which had an adverse impact on the Colombo Hotels segment in particular.
 y
Usage of other ancillary services in the hotels, such as spas, gymnasiums and pool 
facilities were restricted which had a negative impact on revenue.
Measures taken 
Measures in liaison with regulatory and tourism authorities 
 y
Secured relevant compliance certifications from both local and international 
organisations certifying adherence to applicable COVID-19 standards. 'Cinnamon 
Hotels & Resorts' were stamped safe by the World Travel and Tourism Council (WTTC). 
Recognised by the United Nations World Tourism Organisation (UNWTO), the stamp 
allows tourists to travel whilst ensuring their safety.
 y
Obtained the 'Safe & Secure' compliance certification from SLTDA to resume 
operations post COVID-19.
 y
Conceptualised and executed a detailed crisis management plan in liaison with 
national tourism organisations, such as the WTTC promoting Sri Lanka as a safe 
destination.
Measures adopted by 'Cinnamon' 
 y
Established business continuity plans and 
introduced new working methods for staff, 
prioritising health and safety guidelines. Emphasis 
was also placed on staff training and development.
 y
Implementation of proactive cost management 
initiatives and effective management of working 
capital requirements. Where applicable, companies 
secured relief measures extended by the 
Government and the Central Bank to help ease the 
financial position further.
 y
Ensuring the health and safety of Group employees 
and guests continued to be the Group's immediate 
priority. Introduced 'Cinnamon Care' – the standard 
for cleanliness and safety in hotels and resorts 
to ensure the safety of travellers and contain the 
spread of COVID-19. 
 y
'Cinnamon Bentota Beach' and 'Cinnamon Bey 
Beruwala' were operated as 'Safe & Secure Level 1 
Hotels' under these guidelines and protocols, until 
the recent outbreak.
 y
Given the slowdown in domestic tourism due 
to the current outbreak of COVID-19 cases, three 
Sri Lankan hotel properties are being used as 
intermediate care centres (ICC) for the treatment of 
asymptomatic patients.
 y
In order to capitalise on opportunities in domestic 
tourism, various products such as weekday/
weekend deals and flexible cancellation policies 
etc. were implemented. 
 y
Conceptualised and assisted national tourism 
organisations with the introduction of the 'See 
Now-Travel Later' campaign: a crowdsourcing social 
media campaign for Sri Lanka. Due to the cluster 
outbreak in late April 2021, the campaign was 
extended as 'See Now-Experience Later'.
 y
Conducted the 'Sri Lanka is open' promotional 
video to maintain effective communication 
among travellers.
 y
Developed an informative web page extension for 
travellers, with real-time COVID-19 updates. 
 y
In gratitude to healthcare workers, offered 1,000 
complimentary full board holiday packages at the 
Sri Lankan Resorts segment.
 y
In order to cater to the surge in in-home 
demand for food and beverage offerings within 
the Colombo Hotels segment, the segment 
introduced the online food delivery platform 
'Flavours', partnered with third party delivery 
platforms, 'Uber' and 'PickMe' whilst also offering 
innovative and curated meal options to ensure a 
superior culinary experience.
 y
With the concept of 'Work From Anywhere' 
becoming a reality, meeting and conference 
facilities were converted to office spaces. 
Refer the Outlook section for details on the ongoing impact of the current outbreak in  
Sri Lanka - Page 134

100   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
LEISURE
 y
Silver award at the South Asian Travel 
Awards (SATA) - Leading surf hotel/
resort category – 'Cinnamon Dhonveli 
Maldives'
 y
Green Globe Certification – 'Cinnamon 
Dhonveli Maldives' and 'Ellaidhoo 
Maldives by Cinnamon' 
AWARDS
MACROECONOMIC UPDATE – THE MALDIVES 
 Industry Highlights
 y
With the outbreak of COVID-19 in the first quarter of CY2020, all international airports in 
the Maldives were closed for tourists with effect from 12 March 2020. 
 y
Although the Maldivian airports were opened for leisure and business travel from 15 
July onwards, arrivals into the country were slow to gather momentum given air travel 
restrictions in key source markets. As evident in the below graph, the industry witnessed 
an uptick in tourism in the Maldives subsequently. 
0
50
100
150
200
Arrivals  (’000)
Tourist Arrivals to Maldives
2020
2021
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
173
92
150
97
60
110
91
-
-
-
2
8
10
22
36
96
 y
The momentum in arrivals continued with ~300,000 tourists visiting the Maldives 
between January and March 2021. This is despite an outbreak of the new variant of 
COVID-19 which resulted in cancellations in bookings from the UK in the month of 
January 2021, a key source market for the Maldives.
 y
The new International Passenger Terminal Building at the Velana International Airport is 
currently underway. This transformation enables the airport to handle up to 7.5 million 
passengers annually and addresses the space constraints faced by the existing terminal. 
Construction of this project is set to be completed by CY2022.
 y
The new Sea Plane Terminal, which commenced operations in November 2019, continues 
to be underway.
 y
Implementation of 'Maldives Border Miles' - a three-tiered loyalty programme for tourists. 
Effective from January 2021, the loyalty programme enables registered tourists to earn 
points by travelling to the Maldives. Points are based on criteria which entails frequency of 
travel and duration of stay, amongst others.
 y
The Maldives was listed in Lonely Planet's List of 'Top Six Destinations to Travel in 2021'.
COVID-19 Measures 
 y
With effect from 20 April 2021, tourists fully vaccinated by a COVID-19 vaccination 
recognised by the WHO, Emergency Use Listing (EUL), the Maldives Food and Drug 
Authority, or any other approved authority of the respective countries, two weeks prior 
to travelling, are exempt from the previous requirement of presenting a negative PCR on 
arrival and serving 10-day quarantine on arrival. 
 y
Unvaccinated tourists are required to present a negative PCR test taken within 72 hours of 
departure. 
Maldivian Resorts 
In adapting to the extraordinary circumstances 
that prevailed following the global outbreak of 
the COVID-19 pandemic, the Maldivian Resorts 
recovered relatively faster owing to the remote 
geographical structure of the country and 
health measures adopted by the Government. 
The Maldives re-opened its borders for 
tourism, for both leisure and business travel, 
on 15 July 2020. Consequently, 'Cinnamon 
Dhonveli Maldives' re-commenced operations 
in mid-July whilst the remainder of the Group's 
Maldivian Resorts were gradually opened over 
the ensuing weeks. Although arrivals were 
slow to gather momentum immediately post 
the opening of the airports, the subsequent 
relaxation of global travel restrictions, 
particularly in key source markets, contributed 
to a rebound in performance of the Maldivian 
Resorts segment, resulting in an encouraging 
recovery in occupancy, as evident in the 
graph below. The segment also witnessed 
an increase in the average duration of stay in 
comparison to CY2019.
During the year under review, the first-ever 
immersive live stream dive experience was 
hosted by 'Cinnamon' as a national initiative 
for the Maldives to showcase its natural 
diversity, and diving attractions and to engage 
with prospective tourists.
(%)
(%)
Aug-20
4
7
8
7
12
53
55
54
49
Sep-20
Oct-20
Nov-20
Dec-20
Jan-21
Jul-20
Maldivian Resorts - Occupancy Rates
Maldivian Resorts - Occupancy Rates
Feb-21
Mar-21
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
Water bungalows at 'Ellaidhoo Maldives by Cinnamon'.

101
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
'In Situ – An Intimate Bawa Experience' organised in collaboration with the Lunuganga Trust and 
'Cinnamon Bentota Beach'.
COVID-19: LEISURE -IMPACT AND MITIGATION AT MALDIVIAN RESORTS 
The Maldives declared a state of public health emergency from 12 March 2020, resulting in 
restrictions on tourism, non-essential travel, and curtailment of business activity. As a result, 
the Maldives closed its borders for travel and re-opened the airports for tourist arrivals only 
on 15 July 2020. Whilst resorts and hotels located at uninhabited islands were opened to 
tourists from 15 July 2020, properties located in inhabited islands recommenced operations 
on 1 August 2020. The geographic advantage of ~1,200 separate islands, which naturally 
ensures social distancing among tourists, as each island operates as its own resort, coupled 
with safety measures adopted by the Maldivian Government, spurred interest.  
 Impact 
 y
Hotel operations were suspended for a period of over 4 months, adversely impacting  
the hotels. 
Measures taken 
 y
Similar to the hotels and resorts in Sri Lanka, the ensuing measures were undertaken:
 y
Stringent cost saving measures.
 y
Aggressive marketing and promotional campaigns including the 'book now, stay later' 
campaign and various other campaigns in collaboration with travel partners.
 y
Introduced 'Cinnamon Care' standards.
 y
Roll out of business continuity plans.
 y
Staff training and development.
 y
All four Maldivian Resorts received the 'Safe Travels Stamp' from WTTC in recognition of 
the stringent safety protocols established. 
Hotel Management 
During the year under review, the Group constructed a unified organisational structure that 
will ensure an even more focused leadership and synergised approach across all hotels under 
'Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts'. This new approach encompasses one 'Cinnamon' organisation as 
opposed to separate sectors as City and Resorts - Sri Lankan and Maldivian. Hotels are viewed 
holistically, and not within separate verticals, with better allocation of resources and services, 
thereby providing compelling customer experiences across the brand. In furtherance of this 
unified organisation structure, the senior leadership team of 'Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts' was 
strategically realigned.  
 y
World Travel Awards 2020/21 - Leading 
Destination Management Company in 
Sri Lanka
AWARDS
Cinnamon Events
'Cinnamon' events were significantly curtailed 
in the year under review given COVID-19 
considerations. In response, the Group 
supported social distancing and health 
and safety regulations imposed by the 
Government by hosting most of its events 
virtually. The 'Future of Tourism', a bi-annual 
conference organised as a thought leadership 
initiative for the Sri Lankan travel and tourism 
industry, was launched as a virtual conference. 
In July 2020, the inaugural event 'In Situ – An 
Intimate Bawa Experience' was organised in 
collaboration with the Lunuganga Trust and 
'Cinnamon Bentota Beach' to commemorate 
101 years of the architectural visionary of the 
late Geoffrey Bawa. He was also the original 
designer of 'Cinnamon Bentota Beach' in the 
1960s. In September 2020, 'Cinnamon Bentota 
Beach' in partnership with the Gratiaen Trust 
hosted 'Literary Weekend' featuring some of 
Sri Lanka's prominent award-winning authors.
Destination Management 
The operating environment of the Destination 
Management business was adversely 
impacted by the decline in tourist arrivals on 
account of the COVID-19 pandemic. In order 
to strengthen regional presence and increase 
market visibility in the Indian market, Walkers 
Tours established ties with Indian inbound 
travel partners during the year under review. 
Country representatives were also appointed 
for key markets, entailing UK, Germany, France, 
Middle East, and India, in furtherance of this 
strategy. The business also invested in its 
digital strategy by expanding the online B2B 
booking segment and routinely circulated 
newsletters on COVID-19 updates in Sri Lanka. 
During the year under review, both Whittall 
Boustead Travel and Walkers Tours operated as 
a centralised unit which resulted in significant 
savings on overhead costs. 

102   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
LEISURE
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT REVIEW
The section that ensues discusses the performance of the industry group during the year under review, under the key forms of Capital applicable for 
the industry group.
Financial and Manufactured Capital
Income Statement Indicators  
Rs.million
2020/21
2019/20
%
Revenue*
Colombo Hotels  
1,631
5,286
(69)
Sri Lankan Resorts 
958
4,141
(77)
Maldivian Resorts
2,706
5,390
(50)
Destination Management
67
2,880
(98)
Hotel Management 
12
57
(78)
Total
5,374
17,754
(70)
* Including share of revenue of equity accounted investees.
 y
As outlined in detail in the Operational Review, the outbreak of 
the COVID-19 pandemic and the resultant closure of airports and 
restrictions on global travel, had an adverse impact across all the 
Leisure businesses, leading to a significant decline in revenue.
 y
The gradual resumption in domestic travel with the easing of 
movement restrictions locally by the second quarter, aided the  
recovery of the Sri Lankan Resorts segment. 
 y
Revenue in the Colombo Hotels segment stemmed from food and 
beverage and banquet operations whilst MICE revenue was adversely 
impacted by a decline in MICE tourism.
 y
Although tourism to the Maldives was slow to gather pace post the 
opening of its borders in mid-July 2020, the subsequent relaxation 
of global travel restrictions, particularly in key source markets, 
contributed to a rebound in performance of the Maldivian Resorts 
segment, resulting in an encouraging recovery in occupancy. During 
the fourth quarter of the year under review, revenue surpassed the 
one billion mark recording Rs.1.70 billion of revenue in tandem with 
growing occupancy.
 y
The decline in revenue of the Destination Management segment is 
due to the decrease in tourist arrivals in line with the overall market.
 y
The Hotel Management segment recorded a decline in revenue as 
a result of lower management fees and marketing fees given the 
subdued performance across hotels, as outlined above.
Rs.million
2020/21
2019/20
%
EBITDA*
Colombo Hotels  
(1,370)
553
(348)
Sri Lankan Resorts 
(1,347)
474
(384)
Maldivian Resorts
(227)
1,454
(116)
Destination Management
(279)
(123)
(127)
Hotel Management 
(349)
(31)
(1,032)
Total
(3,572)
2,327
(253)
Rs.million
2020/21
2019/20
%
PBT*
Colombo Hotels  
(1,943)
(58)
(3,246)
Sri Lankan Resorts 
(2,421)
(294)
(724)
Maldivian Resorts
(3,378)
(954)
(254)
Destination Management
(312)
(87)
(258)
Hotel Management 
(473)
(147)
(221)
Total
(8,527)
(1,540)
(454)
* Share of results of equity accounted investees are shown net of all taxes.
 y
The primary drivers for the decrease in profitability were the 
aforementioned factors impacting revenue.
 y
Various cost saving mechanisms were implemented focusing on 
the liquidity position of all segments within the industry group. This 
enabled the businesses in managing its cash position and minimising 
a further impact on profitability.
 y
'Cinnamon Lakeside Colombo' and 'Cinnamon Grand Colombo' 
made impairment provisions for debtors which impacted the 
performance of the Colombo Hotels segment.
 y
The recovery of the Maldivian Resorts segment in the latter end of 
the year under review, was encouraging with the segment recording 
a positive EBITDA, as all four properties in the Maldives recorded 
positive EBITDA from December 2020 onwards. Accordingly, EBITDA 
of the Maldivian Resorts segment stood at Rs.26 million and Rs.573 
million during the third and fourth quarters of 2020/21, respectively.  
 y
The recurring EBITDA of the industry group, excluding fair value 
gains/losses on investment property (IP) amounted to a loss of 
Rs.3.59 billion, a notable decrease against the previous year [2019/20: 
Rs.2.31 billion]. 
 y
The Maldivian Resorts segment recorded an increase in the 
lease amortisation charge for the year, given the full operation 
of 'Cinnamon Velifushi Maldives' and 'Cinnamon Hakuraa Huraa 
Maldives' as opposed to the previous year where the resorts were 
only operational in the latter end of 2019/20. In line with accounting 
standards the lease amortisation charge for 'Cinnamon Hakuraa 
Huraa Maldives' was capitalised during the refurbishment of the 
property in 2019/20.
 y
The Sri Lankan Resorts segment entails a depreciation charge 
for 12 months of operations of 'Cinnamon Bentota Beach' for 
2020/21, in contrast to 2019/20 which only entailed depreciation for 
approximately a quarter. 
 y
Interest expenses recorded an increase during the year under review, 
due to increased borrowings across the industry group. However, the 
cash flow impact of interest expenses were minimal as most loans 
were offered a moratorium on its debt service. 
* Share of results of equity accounted investees are shown net of all taxes.

103
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
Balance Sheet Indicators  
Rs.million
2020/21
2019/20
%
Assets
Colombo Hotels  
34,754
35,706
(3)
Sri Lankan Resorts 
18,809
19,869
(5)
Maldivian Resorts
41,888
39,337
6
Destination Management
1,223
2,063
(41)
Hotel Management 
1,650
1,360
21
Total
98,324
98,335
(0)
 y
The industry group temporarily froze all non-essential recurring 
capital expenditure due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
 y
'Hikka Tranz by Cinnamon' recorded an increase in assets due to capital 
work-in-progress costs associated with the ongoing refurbishment 
which was planned for prior to the outbreak of the pandemic. 
 y
Stringent cost optimisation initiatives were rolled out such as focused 
receivables collection coupled with increased borrowing which 
enabled the businesses to maintain a stable cash position. 
 y
Both Sri Lankan Resorts and Maldivian Resorts proactively focused 
on debtor collections, particularly by transitioning into cash-based 
transactions which led to a decline in trade and other receivables 
during the year under review.
 y
'Cinnamon Dhonveli Maldives' recorded a significant increase in cash 
and cash equivalents as a result of increased cash collections during 
the fourth quarter 2020/21. Given that the functional currency of 
the Maldivian Resorts segment is in USD, the depreciation of the 
LKR against the USD surrounding the COVID-19 pandemic, also 
contributed to a marginal increase in the asset base.
 y
Reduced activity in the Destination Management sector contributed 
to an erosion of cash in the businesses which negatively affected the 
asset base.
Rs.million
2020/21
2019/20
%
Debt*
Colombo Hotels  
1,018
368
177
Sri Lankan Resorts 
4,491
3,269
37
Maldivian Resorts
13,741
11,463
20
Destination Management
353
427
(17)
Hotel Management 
1,139
507
125
Total
20,743
16,034
29
*Excludes lease liabilities.
 y
The industry group obtained term loans and overdraft facilities in 
order to sustain working capital requirements and to a lesser extent, 
fund ongoing capital expenditure. Majority of the facilities were 
obtained through the COVID-19 relief measures extended by the 
Government, such as through the 'Saubhagya' scheme.
 y
Lease liabilities as at 31 March 2021 stood at Rs.16.12 billion 
[2019/20: Rs.13.42 billion]. The increase in leases primarily stems 
from an extension to the lease at 'Cinnamon Dhonveli Maldives' 
and due to the translation impact given its USD denomination. Total 
debt including leases stood at Rs.36.86 billion as at 31 March 2021 
[2019/20: Rs.29.46 billion]. The increase in debt in the Maldivian 
Resorts segment was attributable to overdraft facilities obtained 
to manage working capital requirements and the impact of the 
depreciation of the LKR against the USD. 
Given the reliance of the industry group on natural resources and  
Sri Lanka's rich biodiversity in positioning the destination, the industry 
group strives to operate in accordance with the Group's Environmental 
policies and the 'Cinnamon' sustainability strategy which facilitates 
functioning with minimal impact to the environment and strives to 
ensure sustainable value creation for all stakeholders. 
LOOKING FORWARD: 2025 GOALS
Energy
Water
-4%
-1%
In furtherance to the efforts made towards the previous 2020 goals, 
'Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts' have set reduction targets against the 
2018/19 baseline to be achieved by 2024/25, to consolidate and 
maintain its sustainability performance.  
Natural Capital
Plastic
Material topics and focus areas are as follows:
-50% 
single-use plastic
Water and Effluent Management
Relevance: Financial, regulatory and brand reputation implications
Targets and initiatives during the year:
 y
Continued to maintain onsite effluent treatment plants for 
hotels that are unable to discharge effluent into common 
municipal sewerage lines.
 y
Reuse of treated water for gardening and farming at select 
Maldivian properties.
 y
Ensured all effluents met the requisite water quality standards.
Water treatment
Water efficiency
 y
720m3 of water savings annually at 'Cinnamon Bey Beruwala' 
through the installation of water conserving fixtures.
 y
'Cinnamon Bentota Beach' and 'Cinnamon Lakeside Colombo' 
adopted rainwater harvesting systems. 
The industry group strives to function 
with minimal impact to the environment 
and strives to ensure sustainable value 
creation to all stakeholders.

104   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
Energy and Emissions Management
Waste Management
Relevance: Financial implications, stakeholder expectations of sustainable 
tourism practices, regulatory requirements, brand image and reputation
Relevance: Regulatory and brand reputation implications
Targets and initiatives during the year:
Energy efficiency
 y
Continued installation of energy efficient LED lighting resulting 
in ~3,814 kWh of savings. 
 y
Replaced traditional air conditioner units with inverter type 
units which resulted in ~23,214 kWh of savings. 
 y
'Cinnamon Lakeside Colombo' reduced its energy usage by 
~305,184 kWh through usage optimisation of air handling units 
(AHUs), exhaust fans and chiller operations.
Targets and initiatives during the year:
Reuse and recycle
 y
'Cinnamon Lakeside Colombo' produced compost using food 
waste. The compost was used to grow organic produce for use 
in guest meals. 
 y
Generation of biogas using food waste at 'Cinnamon Wild Yala', 
'Cinnamon Citadel Kandy' and 'Habarana Village by Cinnamon'.
 y
Implemented waste management strategies in order to 
achieve 'zero waste to landfill' status in the long-term.
Renewable energy and carbon 
footprint reduction
 y
Solar panels were installed at 'Ellaidhoo Maldives by Cinnamon', 
'Cinnamon Bentota Beach' and 'Cinnamon Dhonveli Maldives' 
which generated 859,156 kWh of renewable energy.
 y
Walkers Tours Limited:
 y
Certified as a carbon neutral fleet by Carbon Neutral UK.
 y
Invested in a foreign renewable energy project to offset its 
carbon footprint by 889 tons of carbon equivalent.
 y
69 per cent of the vehicle fleet were hybrids.
Plastic waste reduction
 y
750 kg of plastic savings annually through the replacement of 
1.5 litre pet bottles with refillable water flagons at 'Ellaidhoo 
Maldives by Cinnamon'.
 y
Replacement of 500 ml water bottles provided at guest 
check-in with a customised bottle at 'Ellaidhoo Maldives 
by Cinnamon', thereby eliminating the use of 3,000 bottles 
annually.
 y
Walkers Tours Limited, in collaboration with 'Plasticcycle', 
placed plastic collection bins at Southern Expressway exit 
points. 
 y
'Cinnamon Grand Colombo' was the first hotel to join the 
Central Environment Authority's pen and toothbrush recycling 
programme 'not a rule but a discipline'. This is expected to 
direct over 2,000 pens away from landfill annually. 
Certification and Awareness 
 y
'Cinnamon Bentota Beach' was the first Sri Lankan large 
scale resort to be awarded LEED (Leadership in Energy and 
Environmental Design) Platinum certification. 
 y
Alignment of environmental performance with international 
benchmarks.
 y
Emissions were monitored to ensure compliance with the 
tolerance levels stipulated under the Environmental Protection 
License (EPL).
 y
Maintained ISO 14001 Environmental Management System 
certification. 
Certification and awareness
 y
'Cinnamon Grand Colombo' in collaboration with National 
Cleaner Production Centre conducted an awareness session on 
managing, segregating and recycling waste.
 y
'Cinnamon Grand Colombo' raised awareness on reducing 
plastic by an e-poster campaign. 
 y
In support of the 'Code Green Agent of Change' challenge 
organised by 'Plasticcycle', 189 eco-bricks were collected 
by 'Cinnamon Grand Colombo' while Walkers Tours Limited 
collected 20 kg of plastic. 
 y
'Cinnamon Red Colombo' conducted an online seminar for 
staff on food waste reduction and prevention.
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
LEISURE
Solar panels were installed at 'Ellaidhoo 
Maldives by Cinnamon', 'Cinnamon Bentota 
Beach' and 'Cinnamon Dhonveli Maldives',  
generating 859,156 kWh of renewable energy.

105
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
Biodiversity Conservation and Promotion
Relevance: Regulatory and brand reputation implications and 
maintaining the value proposition for the tourism industry
Targets and initiatives during the year:
 y
'Cinnamon Elephant Project' - Continued the sustained 
research initiative, aimed at identifying elephant behavioural 
and dispersion patterns in the Minneriya and Kaudulla national 
parks and surrounding areas in the North Central province of 
Sri Lanka. Despite restrictions due to COVID-19,11 field visits 
were conducted to observe the collared elephant and other 
elephants in different herds.
 y
'Ellaidhoo Maldives by Cinnamon' and 'Cinnamon Hakuraa 
Huraa Maldives' organised beach clean-up campaigns whilst 
'Cinnamon Hakuraa Huraa Maldives' conducted a tree planting 
project.
 y
'Ellaidhoo Maldives by Cinnamon' launched a coral reef 
restoration programme with the objective of transplanting 
threatened reefs and preserving ocean biodiversity through 
awareness creation on conservation.
 y
As part of the beach caretaker project, 'Cinnamon Bey 
Beruwala' along with 'Plasticcycle' partnered with the Marine 
Environmental Protection Authority (MEPA) to protect and 
preserve the beach along the resort. A beach cleanup amongst 
employees and guests was organised as a part of this initiative.
Proximity to Biodiversity and its Features - Sri Lankan Resorts
Cinnamon Citadel Kandy 
 y Mahaweli river and freshwater ecosystems, adjacent to 
property
 y Extent of Site (km2) - 0.0234
 y *IUCN Category 4 - Habitat/ Species Management Area
Trinco Blu by Cinnamon
 y Marine ecosystem, adjacent to property
 y Extent of Site (km2) - 0.1143
 y * IUCN Category 2 - National Park
Cinnamon Bey Beruwala
 y Marine ecosystem, adjacent to property
 y Extent of Site (km2) - 0.045
 y *IUCN Category 2 - National Park
Habarana Village by Cinnamon
 y Minneriya tank sanctuary, 15 km away from property
 y Extent of Site (km2) - 0.0378
 y *IUCN Category 2 - National Park
Cinnamon Bentota Beach
 y Marine ecosystem, adjacent to property
 y Extent of Site (km2) - 0.0446
 y * IUCN Category 2 - National Park
Cinnamon Lodge Habarana
 y Minneriya tank sanctuary, 15 km away from property
 y Extent of Site (km2) - 0.1031
 y *IUCN Category 2 - National Park
Hikka Tranz by Cinnamon
 y Marine ecosystem, adjacent to property
 y Subsurface Land at Site (km2) - 3,600
 y Extent of Site (km2) - 0.0176
 y *IUCN Category 2 - National Park
Cinnamon Wild Yala 
 y Yala national park, adjacent to property
 y Extent of Site (km2) - 0.0405
 y *IUCN Category 2 - National Park
Note:  All properties have obtained EPLs. 
 
Unless explicitly specified, subsurface land at site (km2) - Nil.
 
*Protected through the Flora and Fauna Protection Ordinance 1937.
Cinnamon Dhonveli 
Maldives 
 y Marine ecosystem, 
adjacent to 
property
 y Extent of Site (km2) 
- 0.1496
Cinnamon Velifushi 
Maldives
 y Marine ecosystem, 
adjacent to 
property
 y Extent of Site (km2) 
- 0.05351 
Cinnamon Hakuraa 
Huraa Maldives
 y Marine ecosystem, 
adjacent to 
property
 y Extent of Site (km2) 
– 0.0543
Ellaidhoo Maldives by 
Cinnamon
 y Marine ecosystem, 
adjacent to 
property
 y Extent of Site (km2) 
– 0.0556
Velana 
International 
Airport
Note: Subsurface land at site (km2) -Nil.
 
Protected through The Environmental Protection and Preservation Act.
Proximity to Biodiversity and its Features - 
Maldivian Resorts

106   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
LEISURE
Note- Both absolute and per guest night performance in the Leisure 
industry group was significantly impacted by COVID-19. Hence, on an 
absolute basis, the industry group recorded a decrease in performance 
indicators, with the exception of the Maldivian Resorts segment which 
reported an increase, due to the inclusion of 'Cinnamon Velifushi Maldives' 
and 'Cinnamon Hakuraa Huraa Maldives' into the sustainability reporting 
scope post refurbishment. Despite the absolute reduction overall, the 
increase in per operational intensity factors is due to a disproportionate 
reduction in activity.
Carbon footprint scope 1 and 2 per operational intensity factor
2020/21
2019/20
Sri Lankan Resorts CO2 kg per guest night
66.89
25.29
Maldivian Resorts CO2 kg per guest night
97.21
43.38
Colombo Hotels CO2 kg per guest night
428.40
61.54
Destination Management CO2 kg per client 
serviced
39.91
7.49
Water withdrawal per operational intensity factor
2020/21
2019/20
Sri Lankan Resorts water withdrawn -  
litres per guest night
2,264
942
Maldivian Resorts water withdrawn -  
litres per guest night
2,679
968
Colombo Hotels water withdrawn -  
litres per guest night
8,069
1,304
Waste generated per operational intensity factor
2020/21
2019/20
Sri Lankan Resorts waste generated -  
kg per guest night
3.13
2.03
Maldivian Resorts waste generated -  
kg per guest night
8.52
5.74
Colombo Hotels waste generated -  
kg per guest night
18.09
4.56
Carbon Footprint (MT)
10,653 MT
7,394 MT
6,100 MT
76 MT
137 MT
Colombo Hotels: 
Sri Lankan Resorts:
Maldivian Resorts: 
Destination Management: 
Hotel Management: 
Carbon Footprint (MT)
2019/20
23%
2020/21
24,360
31,510
Waste Disposed (Kg ‘000)
2019/20
50%
2020/21
1,339
2,666
Water Withdrawn (m3)
2019/20
26%
2020/21
624,528
847,926
As a service driven industry, quality and delivery are vitally important to 
the Leisure industry group. Businesses continually invest in the workforce 
to build a professionally trained, competent and experienced staff cadre 
to deliver exceptional customer experience and maintain the standards 
of the 'Cinnamon' brand. 
The Leisure industry group places significant value on providing a safe 
working environment for its employees through education and training 
on safety practices in the workplace. With the outbreak of the COVID-19 
pandemic, health and safety measures taken by the industry group were 
further strengthened to safeguard its frontline staff. 
Material topics and focus areas are as follows:
Human Capital 
Training and Talent Retention
Relevance: Retaining talent and upgrading skills of existing staff 
towards delivering superior customer service and quality
Targets and initiatives during the year:
Training and talent retention
 y
Maintenance of 'Cinnamon' brand standards by providing a 
stipulated number of training hours to develop the skills of the 
workforce.
 y
All properties continued to offer classroom and on-the-job 
training to all employees to improve skills, productivity, service 
quality and value.
 y
Food handlers at all hotels and resorts were provided 
comprehensive training on food safety and hygiene to ensure 
quality standards are met.
The Leisure industry group places significant 
value on providing a safe working environment 
for its employees through education and 
training on safety practices in the workplace.

107
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
Health and Safety
Relevance: Ensuring safe working conditions are provided for all 
employees to minimise occupational health and safety incidents
Targets and initiatives during the year:
Health and safety 
 y
Ensuring safe working conditions and practices for all 
employees to minimise occupational health and safety 
incidents.
 y
Conducted regular first aid, fire awareness and emergency 
evacuation trainings. 
 y
ISO 45001:2018/ OHSAS 18001 - occupational health and safety 
standards certification were maintained by hotels.
 y
ISO 22000 certification - food safety was maintained by hotels.
 y
'Cinnamon Lakeside Colombo' conducted an awareness 
programme on promoting gender equality and eliminating 
workplace harassment.
COVID-19 response
 y
'Safe & Secure' certificate of compliance issued by the SLTDA 
was obtained by all Sri Lankan hotels and resorts.
 y
Workplace safety protocols such as guest health declarations, 
temperature checks and regular sanitisation of high risk areas 
were rolled out. 
 y
All staff were provided with appropriate personal protective 
equipment (PPE) including face masks, face shields, gloves, and 
aprons. Random PCR tests were also conducted.
 y
Notices and visuals on the prevention of COVID-19 were 
displayed in common areas.
 y
Maldivian Resorts adhered to the 'Cinnamon' health and safety 
operating manual once tourism commenced in the Maldives. 
 y
Banquets and restaurants adhered to the regulations imposed 
by the Government and SLTDA and maintained social 
distancing. 
 y
Work schedules were implemented for staff to maintain the 
required level of staff.
 y
Introduction of COVID-19 checklists, random audits, and duty 
manager checklists. 
 y
Walkers Tours Limited conducted health and safety inspections 
on third party suppliers, chauffeur guide training and staff 
training on COVID-19 safety measures, guidelines and service 
delivery. 
1,465
1,471
582
153
148
Colombo Hotels: 
Sri Lankan Resorts:
Maldivian Resorts: 
Destination Management: 
Hotel Management: 
Number of Employees 
Training (Hours)
2019/20
64%
2020/21
347,916
124,376
Injuries (Number)
2019/20
79%
2020/21
47
10
Training per Employee (Hours)
2019/20
57%
2020/21
77
33
The industry group recognises the importance of building stakeholder 
relationships and engages proactively with communities and its supply 
chain partners to ensure sustainable value creation across its value chain, 
including the community. The industry group works collaboratively with 
the community, to empower youth and women in particular to contribute 
towards the development of the local economy. 
The significant suppliers within the industry group are:
SIGNIFICANT SUPPLIERS - CINNAMON HOTELS & RESORTS
 y
Amenities
 y
Food and beverage suppliers
 y
Travel agents and travel websites
 y
Casual workers
SIGNIFICANT SUPPLIERS - DESTINATION MANAGEMENT
 y
Hotels and other accommodation providers
 y
Contracted retail stores
 y
Freelance national guides
 y
Jeep and boat suppliers
 y
Foreign travel agents and tour operators
 y
Outsourced fleet
Social and Relationship Capital 

108   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
LEISURE
Supply Chain Management
Relevance: Assessing and educating significant suppliers to ensure 
mitigation of negative impacts with respect to environment, 
labour, and human rights aspects
Targets and initiatives during the year:
 y
Engagement with significant supply chain partners to 
encourage environmentally friendly and socially responsible 
activities.
 y
Stimulated local economies by sourcing local produce and 
other outsourced services.
 y
Supplier awareness sessions were carried out for 44 suppliers, 
on required standards in relation to quality, environmental 
protection and health and safety.
 y
Supplier audits covered key suppliers of 'Cinnamon Hotels & 
Resorts' and the central purchasing office.
 y
Launched 'Skill into Progress' (SKIP) programme – JKF's 
initiative to support and upskill suppliers of the Group 
especially during business downtime following the COVID-19 
pandemic, which benefited 16 chauffeur guides attached to 
WTL and WBTL through a 36-hour training on industry-related 
English communication skills.
Community Engagement
Relevance: Engagements with the community to reduce inequality, 
enhance skills and build mutually beneficial relationships
Targets and initiatives during the year:
WTL and WBTL in collaboration with John Keells Foundation (JKF) 
conducted the following programmes:
 y
Conducted a 15-hour virtual English camp for 37 children of 
chauffeur guides to improve communication skills during 
school closure on account of the pandemic. 
 y
6 youth were awarded scholarships to pursue advanced 
level and university education under JKF's Higher Education 
Scholarship Programme.
'Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts' collaborated with JKF on the 
following initiatives:
 y
'Cinnamon Bentota Beach' in association with JKF and the 
Gratiaen Trust conducted a literary weekend event featuring 
7 Gratiaen prize winners. ~90 hotel guests and university 
students attended this event.
 y
'Trinco Blu by Cinnamon' organised the certificate distribution 
ceremony of the 'Cinnamon Youth Empowerment Programme' 
for 140 students. 
 y
18 scholarships were awarded to school children in Trincomalee 
under JKF's English Language Scholarship Programme. 
 y
181 school children from Trincomalee, Beruwala, Yala, Kandy, and 
Hikkaduwa who completed the English Language Scholarship 
Programme participated in virtual English day events while a 
student from Kandy was selected as one of the winners under 
the Central and Sabaragamuwa Province category. 
 y
3 students were awarded scholarships under JKF's Higher 
Education Scholarship Programme to pursue advanced level 
and university education.
 y
Under JKF's business-centric community empowerment 
initiative John Keells 'Praja Shakthi', 'Hikka Tranz by Cinnamon' 
provided ground support to JKF in the following initiatives:
 y
Renovation of the playground at 'Ekamuthu' pre-school in 
Hikkaduwa which benefited 30 students. 
 y
In collaboration with the Academy of Design, conducted a 
training workshop for 10 women engaged in the batik industry 
to enhance their skills and market access. The women were 
supported in developing a premium product range post-
training under the new brand name 'Hikka Batiks' towards 
testing market demand through a pilot sale held in Colombo.
 y
Conducted a pilot awareness programme on substance 
abuse prevention in collaboration with Humedica Lanka 
and Hikkaduwa Divisional Secretariat for 109 Government 
officials, pre-school teachers, and parents.
 y
All hotels and resorts made donations to various non-
profit organisations including the Rheumatology and 
Rehabilitation Hospital.
Material topics and focus areas are as follows:

109
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
PROPERTY
Key Indicators
Inputs (Rs.million)
2020/21
2019/20
%
2018/19
Total assets
 196,882 
 162,928 
 21 
 113,452 
Total equity
 108,406 
 98,118 
 10 
 81,779 
Total debt1
 59,492 
 41,954 
 42 
 17,498 
Capital employed2
 167,898 
 140,073 
 20 
 99,277 
Employees3
 272 
 278 
 (2)
 281 
Outputs (Rs.million)
2020/21
2019/20
%
2018/19
Turnover4
 1,910 
 1,395 
 37 
 711 
EBIT
 (92)
 565 
 (116)
 283 
PBT
 (136)
 462 
 (130)
 191 
PAT
 (276)
 326 
 (185)
 89 
EBIT per employee
 (0)
 2 
 (117)
 1 
Carbon footprint
 770 
 814 
 (5)
 505 
1. Excludes lease liabilities.
2. For equity accounted investees, capital employed is representative of the Group's equity investment in these 
companies. This is inclusive of lease liabilities.
3. As per the sustainability reporting boundary.
4. Revenue is inclusive of the Group's share of equity accounted investees.
Contribution to the John Keells Group
Industry Group Structure 
Property Development 
 y
Development and sale of residential and commercial properties under three 
segments 'Luxe Spaces', 'Metropolitan Spaces' and 'Suburban Spaces'.
 y
Ongoing projects: 'Cinnamon Life' integrated resort development and 'Tri-Zen', a 
development based on smart living in the heart of the city.
 y
Previous projects: 'OnThree20', '7th Sense', 'Monarch', and 'Emperor'.
 y
Operation of the 18-hole champion golf course and management of the land 
bank in Rajawella, Kandy.
Real Estate 
 y
Rental of commercial office space.
 y
Management of the Group's real estate within the city.
 y
Ownership and operation of the 'Crescat Boulevard' mall and 'K-Zone' malls in 
Moratuwa and Ja-Ela.
1%
Revenue
(1%)
EBIT
40%
Capital 
Employed
1%
Carbon 
Footprint

110   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
Ragama
Kelaniya
Port City
Colombo
Hunupitiya
Moratuwa
Narahenpita
Kottawa
Battaramulla
Pannipitiya
Pita Kotte
Athurugiriya
Borella
Port Access Highway
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
MACROECONOMIC UPDATE
 y
The construction sector accounted for 6.2 per cent of Sri Lanka's GDP in 
CY2020 [CY2019: 6.9 per cent]. The construction sector is expected to 
increase its contribution to GDP going forward, given notable investments 
by both the public and private sector.
 y
The Land Price Index for the Colombo District, compiled by the Central 
Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL), reached 145.2 in the second half of CY2020, an 
increase of 4.6 per cent [CY2019 2H: 138.8]. The Residential, Commercial 
and Industrial sub-indices contributed to this increase.
Connectivity 
 y
Preliminary work on the Ruwanpura Expressway, spanning ~74 km from 
the Kahathuduwa exit point of the Southern Expressway till Pelmadulla, 
commenced during the year with the construction of phase one from 
Kahathuduwa to Ingiriya (~24 km). The 2021 National Budget articulated 
the completion of this section by CY2024.
 y
Central Expressway
 y
Construction of the stage two stretch from Meerigama to Kurunegala 
of the Central Expressway spanning ~40 km progressed during the year. 
This section is expected to be completed during CY2021.  
 y
Kerawalapitiya-Meerigama, Kurunegala-Dambulla and Pothuhera-
Galagedara sections of the Central Expressway to be completed by 
CY2024, as articulated in the 2021 National Budget.
 y
The Cabinet of Ministers granted approval for the construction of four 
elevated railway tracks within the Colombo City limits as a public-private 
partnership.   
 y
Raktha (red) track connects Ragama to Kottawa via Pita Kotte (42 km).
 y
Haritha (green) track connects Moratuwa to Kelaniya via Narahenpita 
(28 km).
 y
Neela (blue) track connects Kottawa to Hunupitiya via Battaramulla  
(23 km). 
 y
Dham (purple) track connects Port City Colombo to Athurugiriya  
via Borella.
Port City Colombo (PCC) Developments 
 y
PCC, encompassing over 5.7 million square meters of built space, upon 
completion, is expected to have significant spill-over effects to the 
economy through the attraction of foreign direct investments and by 
spurring growth in the city and its vicinity.
 y
In May 2021, the Colombo Port City Economic Commission Bill was 
approved by the Parliament of Sri Lanka:
 y
Outlines the legal framework for the establishment of a Special 
Economic Zone (SEZ) within PCC.
 y
Advocates the formation of an economic commission to oversee all 
activities within the SEZ, including granting registrations, licences and 
authorisations.
 y
Positions SEZ as an international business and services hub, which 
includes services such as international trade, shipping logistic 
operations, offshore banking and financial services, IT and business 
process outsourcing (BPO) and corporate operations.
EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT AND OPERATIONAL REVIEW
Key Policy and Regulatory Highlights
 y
National budget proposals:
 y
Permitted the purchase of super luxury condominiums 
by non-residents utilising foreign currency earnings 
generated in Sri Lanka, earnings in foreign countries or 
via a loan obtained from a bank outside of Sri Lanka.
 y
Withholding tax (WHT) made exempt on rent 
payments to residents.
 y
Removal of construction related import duties on 
bulk importation of raw materials which cannot be 
produced locally in relation to the construction of 
mega housing schemes and highways.
 y
Exemption of import tax on the importation 
of machinery with modern technology in the 
construction industry. 
 y
The Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka 
(SEC) introduced a framework for Sri Lanka Real Estate 
Investment Trust (SLREIT). Benefits from this framework 
include various tax exemptions.
Central Expressway
Katunayake Expressway
Outer Circular Highway
Southern Expressway
Ruwanpura Expressway
Hambantota
Kandy
Matara
Port City Colombo
Expressways
Proposed Elevated 
Railway Tracks
Bandaranaike 
International Airport
New Kelani Bridge

111
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
The Property industry group encountered 
a series of challenges with the onset of the 
COVID-19 pandemic in Sri Lanka, particularly 
in lieu of a complete halt in construction 
at sites and operations at malls during the 
lockdown period and isolation measures 
thereafter. Constraints across the supply 
chain and workflow pressures also disrupted 
business performance. However, indications 
of recovery towards the latter part of the year 
under review, resulted in a gradual rebound 
in operations and an increase in pre-sales. 
The prevailing low interest rate regime in 
the country, where consumers have access 
to long-term funding at attractive rates, also 
aided business recovery and stimulated a 
shift in funds from other asset classes to real 
estate assets, particularly in the metropolitan 
segment. However, layered tax and tariff 
systems for construction material, an increase 
in shipping and logistic costs and the 
depreciation of the Rupee continued to exert 
pressure on industry performance.
On the Commercial Real Estate front, the 
industry underwent a paradigm shift 
on the back of the COVID-19 pandemic, 
with restrictions in movement forcing the 
adaptation of 'work from home' practices. 
Against this backdrop, the Group witnessed 
lacklustre demand for office space in Colombo 
during the year.
COVID-19: IMPACT AND MITIGATION – PROPERTY 
The Property industry group was significantly impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic given its 
adverse effects on economic conditions and consumer sentiment. The businesses adopted 
prudent cost management strategies and also conducted its operations responsibly in order 
to ensure minimum intervention to business operations.
Impact
 y
The construction sites, 'Cinnamon Life' and 'Tri-Zen' were closed during the first lockdown 
in Sri Lanka. Both sites recommenced work, thereafter, as permitted under the relevant 
Government directive at the time under stringent health and safety guidelines. 
 y
Although the sites were opened for construction, labour strength and productivity levels 
remained below pre-lockdown levels, although there was a month-on-month gradual 
recovery towards pre-pandemic levels.
 y
The industry group also faced challenges in sourcing both local and foreign labour given 
restrictions on movement, imposition of mandatory quarantine procedures and the 
closure of the airport for arrivals. 
 y
Disruptions to global trade and supply chains adversely impacted the industry, to which 
the businesses in the industry group were no exception. The businesses were also faced 
with challenges in sourcing construction raw materials and increase in raw material prices 
and related costs.
 y
The traction on apartment and office sales was subdued during the year, given the steep 
depreciation of the Rupee and the uncertainty surrounding the pandemic. The Rupee 
pricing model at 'Tri-Zen' which mitigates the exchange rate volatility on the buyer, 
assisted 'Tri-Zen' in managing this impact.  
 y
Operation of the 'Crescat' mall and 'K-Zone' malls in Moratuwa and Ja-Ela were 
temporarily halted, and the malls were closed from March- May 2020. Although 
operations commenced thereafter, the performance of the mall operations continued to 
be impacted during the year as a result of the pandemic. 
Measures taken 
 y
Both sites were able to commence construction work following the easing of restrictions, 
albeit with limited manpower, as permitted under relevant regulatory and healthcare 
guidelines. Procedures focusing on productivity, efficiency and health and safety 
protocols were implemented to address the dynamic challenges faced at the site. The 
business continued to work closely with the contractors to manage the ongoing impact 
of COVID-19 on these projects.
 y
In order to leverage on the prevailing low interest rate regime of the country, 'Tri-Zen' 
partnered with leading banks in Sri Lanka to offer personalised and competitive mortgage 
solutions.
 y
Adopted a focused sales approach in order to improve consumer sentiment during the 
pandemic. To this end, the business ensured constant communication and support with 
the market and existing customers in relation to the progress of ongoing projects. 
 y
Despite the impact on mall operations, in order to extend relief to its supply chain, retail 
tenants were granted concessions and relief on rental and lease terms.
The prevailing low interest 
rate regime in the country, 
where consumers have 
access to long-term funding 
at attractive rates, also 
aided business recovery and 
stimulated a shift in funds 
from other asset classes to real 
estate assets, particularly in 
the metropolitan segment.

112   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
PROPERTY
The Certificates of Conformity (COC) for the 'The Offices at 
Cinnamon Life' and 'The Suites at Cinnamon Life' residential 
tower were obtained during the year under review.
Cinnamon Life
Following the global outbreak of the COVID-19 
pandemic and the stringent lockdown 
measures imposed by the Government of Sri 
Lanka in March 2020 to contain the spread of 
the virus, construction of the 'Cinnamon Life' 
project was temporarily halted, and the site 
was closed for a period of ~2 months until 
mid-May 2020. Post the easing of lockdown 
measures, construction work gradually 
commenced on site under enhanced 
health and safety guidelines as required by 
Government directives. Whilst the initial pace 
of construction remained well below the 
levels witnessed prior to the outbreak of the 
pandemic, given the stringent regulations, 
reduced workers and new site arrangements, 
the current momentum of construction 
activity is steady since the re-opening of the 
site, with labour strength and productivity 
gradually improving to pre-lockdown levels 
across the quarters.
Given the continued challenges in labour 
mobilisation including restrictions and new 
regulations imposed on the import of foreign 
labour, time lost, and the loss in productivity 
due to the enhanced health and safety 
measures and the restrictions placed by 
the Government on the import of materials 
and equipment, at the time, the contractor 
re-organised and re-planned its working 
arrangements. 
Accordingly, the Certificates of Conformity 
(COC) for the 'The Offices at Cinnamon Life' and 
'The Suites at Cinnamon Life' residential tower 
were obtained during the year under review. 
'The Residence at Cinnamon Life' will be ready 
for customer handover by CY2021 with the 
completion of the hotel and shopping mall 
scheduled for the first quarter of 2022/23. 
'The Residence at 
Cinnamon Life'
'The Offices at 
Cinnamon Life'
Hotel
Car Park
Entertainment 
and Retail
Handover - 
CY2021.
Handover - 
first quarter of 
2021/22.
Completion - first 
quarter of 2022/23.
In line with the revised timelines for completion, finishing work including structural work, cladding, 
installation of the façade, glazing, and interior designing of hotel rooms is currently underway. 
As expected, pre-sales during the year was impacted following the uncertainty surrounding the 
pandemic and the depreciation of the Rupee, in line with the overall market. The impacts were more 
pronounced in the luxury segment. Pre-sales of the Residential Towers; 'The Suites at Cinnamon Life' and 
'The Residence at Cinnamon Life' are currently at 64 per cent of the total area available for sale. A gradual 
recovery of consumer sentiment coupled with the project nearing completion is expected to improve 
sales momentum. Total revenue from the sale of residential apartments and the sold commercial office 
space of 'Cinnamon Life', will be recognised from the first quarter of 2021/22 onwards. 
Whilst most of the capital expenditure requirements of the project has already been funded, the 
remainder will be continued to be met through a mix of the secured syndicated debt facility, 
equity commitments through capital raised and internally generated cash and pre-sales of the 
project. The relevant sections of the USD 395 million syndicated project loan agreement were 
amended to reflect the revised timelines of the project.
Given the iconic nature of the property and the dynamic challenges entailing a project of this 
size, employees with prior experience in opening and managing similar integrated resorts were 
recruited to ensure the availability of in-house expertise. Negotiations with key tenants for the 
retail and office spaces continued during the year, with various alternatives being considered for 
the retail space to ensure a unique selling proposition to drive footfall and sales.
'The Offices at Cinnamon Life'.
'The Suites at 
Cinnamon Life'
Note: Areas and visual are subject to change based on final drawings.

113
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
Tri-Zen 
'Tri-Zen', an 891-unit condominium located 
at the heart of the city captalises on the 
increasing demand for affordable, smart and 
efficient living solutions. Positioned within the 
'Metropolitan Spaces' segment of the industry 
group, the project is developed as a joint 
venture with Indra Traders (Private) Limited 
and leverages on innovative designs, lucrative 
price points, space efficiency and the need for 
modern solutions for urban living. The strategic 
location of the project provides buyers with 
easy access to entertainment, essential services, 
and other commercial activities.
Despite the closure of the construction site 
of 'Tri-Zen' for ~2 months, construction at the 
'Tri-Zen' site continued to progress steadily 
thereafter with significant headway made 
on the towers and the completion of the 
parking structure. Construction of the 20th 
floor is currently ongoing. The business was 
able to proactively manage the impact on the 
timeline and deliverables by working closely 
with the contractor to manage such impacts 
and by adopting efficient operating practices 
and cost optimisation strategies. Accordingly, 
the structure of the building is envisaged to 
be completed in the first half of CY2022 whilst 
the overall project is scheduled for completion 
in CY2023.
Although sales at 'Tri-Zen' was impacted 
during the first lockdown, the sales 
momentum and interest towards the project 
continued to strengthen each month, with 
sales in March 2021 recording the highest 
number of units since the inception of the 
project.
Targeted sales strategies and the Rupee 
pricing model, which mitigates the exchange 
rate risks on the buyer, assisted the project 
in rebounding faster than the market. 
Capitalising on prevailing low interest rates, 
John Keells Properties (JKP) in collaboration 
with local banks and insurance companies 
offered the following financing solutions to 
potential buyers, which also aided the sales 
rebound:
 y
Launched 'Freedom Mortgages' in 
collaboration with Commercial Bank of 
Ceylon, which offers a home financing 
solution that waives the interest on home 
loans for 'Tri-Zen' customers for a period 
of 2 years, whilst allowing minimal cash 
outlays during the construction period. 
This scheme was later extended to several 
other banks.
 y
As part of a strategic alliance with Union Assurance, 'Tri-Zen' customers will be offered a life 
insurance cover for Rs.7.0 million, where the insurance premium will be borne by JKP until the 
completion of the project. 
Sales Update
 y
The quarterly rebound in the 'Tri-Zen' sales momentum, despite the impact of the second 
COVID-19 outbreak in the third quarter, is encouraging and signifies the potential demand for 
housing in the 'Metropolitan Spaces' segment. 
 y
Q1 Sales – 2 units  [2019/20 Q1: 36 units]
 y
Q2 Sales – 26 units  [2019/20 Q2: 6 units]
 y
Q3 Sales – 5 units  [2019/20 Q3: 21 units]
 y
Q4 Sales – 47 units  [2019/20 Q4: 19 units]
 y
A notable proportion of 'Tri-Zen' buyers continue to be first-time customers of the industry 
group as well as first-time home buyers, which is a realisation of the industry group's strategy of 
reaching new market segments.
Rajawella Holdings Limited (RHL)
The Group launched its first real estate products under RHL during the year under review, which 
includes scenic land parcels, town houses and villa developments. Products are branded under 
two segments i.e. 'Peacock Valley' and 'Sunrise Ridge', all based within and in proximity to the 
'Victoria Golf and Country Resort' in Digana. Initial interest towards these products has been 
encouraging, with sale of real estate parcels gaining traction. 
Peacock Valley
Sunrise Ridge
 y
Set of premium land plots 
located at the heart of the golf 
course.
 y
Average plot size of ~76 perches.
 y
Gained immense traction with 
majority of land parcels being 
sold within 3 months from the 
launch date. 
 y
Luxury townhouses located alongside the golf course. 
 y
~2,000 sq.ft. in size.
 y
Consisting of two-bedrooms, kitchenette, living room, 
and a private deck. 
 y
Property consists of 16 townhouses, built on ~10 
perch plot. 
 y
Guarantees buyers a hassle-free experience and will be 
managed by 'Victoria Golf and Country Resort'. 
 y
Owners entitled to receive a complimentary five-year 
golf membership, a 90-day stay, and a percentage of 
room revenue. 
 y
Construction is scheduled to commence by July 2021.
During the year under review, the refurbishment of the golf course was completed. The golf course 
was relaunched in tandem with the Mark Bostock Memorial tournament under the management 
of Troon International: the largest golf course operator in the world, with over 2.5 million members 
worldwide. The 18-hole golf course is designed in accordance with United States Golf Association 
(USGA) standards.  
Mall Operations
Mall operations were significantly impacted by the decline in footfall on the back of the COVID-19 
pandemic and the resultant restrictions in movement and social distancing norms. Given the 
current market landscape, in order to repurpose and reposition the 'Crescat' mall in line with 
market dynamics, the property was closed for refurbishment on 31 December 2020. The revamped 
property is expected to be re-launched and operational in the second half of CY2021. 
342 units
2019/20: 262 units
Cumulative sales (units)

114   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
PROPERTY
Vauxhall Land Developments Limited (VLDL)
During the year under review, the Group increased its existing stake of 
60.0 per cent in VLDL by acquiring a further 26.7 per cent equity stake 
from Finlays Colombo Limited (FCL) for a consideration of Rs.5.98 billion. 
This purchase is consequent to FCL exercising its option to divest its 
holding as provided under the joint development agreement entered 
into in 2018. The Group has committed to acquiring the balance 13.3 per 
cent equity stake from FCL for Rs.2.99 billion on or before 24 September 
2021, post which VLDL would become a fully owned subsidiary of the 
Group.
The contiguous 9.38 acre property is one of the largest privately held 
land extents in central Colombo and is within a proposed zoning 
area identified under the Beira Lake Development Plan of the Urban 
Development Authority (UDA). The strategic location in the heart 
of Colombo city has ~ 450 metres of street frontage, a majority of 
which faces the planned waterfront recreation zone in the Beira Lake 
Intervention Area Development Plan which allows for a large-scale 
development with views over the Beira Lake. The site is classified as a 
residential and mixed-use hub. 
This property is a part of the Group's land banking strategy, where 
strategic land parcels were identified in order to capitalise on 
opportunities arising in the real estate and property development 
industry. With the acquisition of VLDL, the Group is of the view that the 
existing land bank is adequate to sustain a steady pipeline of projects in 
the long-term.
A development project has been earmarked for this property, subject to 
market conditions, once 'Tri-Zen' reaches a certain level of completion, 
to ensure a steady cycle of revenue recognition through the planned 
monetisation of the Group's land bank. In furtherance of this strategy, 
the master planning and development strategy continued during the 
year under review.
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT REVIEW
The section that ensues discusses the performance of the industry group 
during the year under review, under the key forms of Capital applicable 
for the industry group.
Financial and Manufactured Capital
Income Statement Indicators 
Rs.million
2020/21
2019/20
%
Revenue*
Property Development  
1,612
916
76
Real Estate 
298
479
(38)
Total
1,910
1,395
37
*Including share of revenue of equity accounted investees.
Property Development 
 y
Revenue growth was driven by the revenue recognition from the  
'Tri-Zen' project amounting to Rs.1.30 billion during the year under 
review [2019/20: Rs.806 million].
 y
Growth in revenue was also driven by real estate sales at RHL from 
the third quarter of 2020/21 onwards. Recurring revenue at RHL was 
impacted by the partial closure of the golf course and adverse market 
conditions in lieu of COVID-19. Despite the challenging environment, 
RHL maintained a positive EBITDA in the latter half of the year under 
review. 
 y
Revenue from 'Cinnamon Life' will only be recognised post-handover 
of the residential and office units. Handover will commence from the 
first quarter of 2021/22 onwards.
Real Estate 
 y
The decline in revenue in the Real Estate sector is primarily 
attributable to the lower rental income from mall operations. Rent 
relief was offered to tenants across properties which impacted rental 
income. The malls were also closed during select periods of the year 
under review given restrictions in movement. 
 y
The closure of 'Crescat' for refurbishment on 31 December 2020 also 
had an impact on the topline of the Real Estate sector. 
Rs.million
2020/21
2019/20
%
EBITDA*
Property Development  
160
384
(58)
Real Estate 
(177)
257
(169)
Total
(17)
641
(103)
PBT*
Property Development  
76
257
(70)
Real Estate 
(212)
205
(204)
Total 
(136)
462
(130)
*Share of results of equity accounted investees are shown net of all taxes.
 y
Discussions on EBITDA are inclusive of fair value gains/losses on 
investment property (IP). The Group is of the view that fair value 
gains/losses on IP are integral to the industry group's core operations, 
given the land banking strategy of the Property industry group and 
the view of monetising such land through development and sales. 
 y
The decline in EBITDA of the industry group is mainly attributable to 
fair value gains/losses on IP, given volatile market conditions during 
the year under review. Fair value gains/losses on IP amounted to a 
loss of Rs.291 million in 2020/21 compared to gain of Rs.455 million 
in 2019/20. 
 y
EBITDA of the industry group excluding fair value gains/losses on 
IP amounted to Rs.274 million, an increase of 48 per cent over the 
previous year [2019/20: Rs.186 million]. 
 y
Whilst the Real Estate sector EBITDA was impacted by the 
aforementioned impact on mall operations, a fair value loss on IP 
of Rs.349 million at 'Crescat', given the closure of the property for 
refurbishment, also contributed to the EBITDA decline. 

115
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
The Property industry group actively monitors its environmental impact 
with continuous initiatives to reduce energy and water usage, whilst 
ensuring sustainable waste and effluent disposal. The industry group 
operates within the Group's environmental policies and strives to be in 
line with industry best practice.
Material topics and focus areas are as follows: 
Natural Capital
Energy and Emissions Management
Water & Waste Management
Relevance: Financial, regulatory and brand implications
Relevance: Implications on brand image and environment, 
compliance with Government and industry regulations
Targets and initiatives during the year:
Water management
Renewable energy and carbon footprint reduction
 y
Rainwater harvesting and use of grey water for irrigation at 
'K-Zone Ja-Ela' as an initiative to conserve water.
 y
Continuous use of the drip irrigation system at WBL which 
uses condensed water from air conditioners for irrigation of 
landscape.
 y
Continued operation of the biogas plant at RHL which 
generates renewable energy from organic waste.
Targets and initiatives during the year:
Energy efficiency
 y
Reduction in energy consumption through continuous 
replacement of existing fluorescent lamps with LED lighting 
resulting in annual savings of ~5,200 kWh.
Waste management
 y
Disposal of plastic and e-waste through contracted third-party 
recyclers.
 y
~3,000 kg of paper waste recycled.
 y
Onsite composting of organic waste at 'K-Zone Ja-Ela' and 
WBL.
 y
Reduction of wet garbage at 'K-Zone Ja-Ela' where food waste 
is supplied to local farmers for animal feed.
 y
Continued segregation of waste into colour-coded bins at 
cafeterias and garbage collection areas. 
Waste
80% reduction in waste sent to landfill at RHL
This year RHL has set a sustainability goal to be achieved by 2024/25. 
The goal aims to reduce its landfill waste, against the 2018/19 
baseline.
Carbon Footprint (MT)
2019/20
814
5%
770
2020/21
Waste Disposed (Kg)
2019/20
82,361
52%
39,416
2020/21
Balance Sheet Indicators
Rs.million
2020/21
2019/20
%
Assets
Property Development  
185,803
151,157
23
Real Estate 
11,079
11,771
(6)
Total
196,882
162,928
21
 y
The increase in assets of the industry group is primarily driven by the 
Property Development sector, on account of project related costs 
pertaining to 'Cinnamon Life' which is captured under other non-
current assets as work-in-progress costs. Given that the Residential 
and Office towers at 'Cinnamon Life' are in the process of being 
handed over, the relevant costs pertaining to these towers continue 
to remain as current assets under inventory as at 31 March 2021. 
 y
While 'Cinnamon Life' is consolidated under the Property 
industry group, it is pertinent to note that all project related costs, 
including finance expenses incurred under the syndicated project 
development facility, are capitalised in accordance with Sri Lanka 
accounting standards (SLFRS/LKAS), unless explicitly mentioned. 
During the year under review, as planned, debt at 'Cinnamon Life' 
increased by Rs.17.61 billion to Rs.58.86 billion. 
LOOKING FORWARD: 2025 GOALS

116   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
PROPERTY
In addition to the continuous training and development provided to 
workers, special training was provided on health and safety in light of 
the COVID-19 pandemic. Additional health and safety measures were 
implemented at all locations, which included equipping staff with 
sufficient PPE, sanitisation facilities and the opportunity to 'work from 
home', where applicable. 
Material topics and focus areas are as follows: 
Human Capital 
Occupational Health and Safety
Relevance: Monitoring occupational health and safety incidents 
and practices and assessing the risks arising from its business 
model of utilising third party construction contractors, and 
implications on brand image
Targets and initiatives during the year:
Health and safety 
COVID-19 response
 y
Maintenance of the OHSAS 18001:2007 certification at all 
malls.
 y
Verification of food hygiene standards at malls through regular 
food sample tests.
 y
Dengue preventive activities to ensure a safe working 
environment.
 y
Continuous monitoring of health and safety standards across 
the value chain via surveillance, audits, training, and testing.
 y
First aid, fire safety, food hygiene, basic health and safety 
training provided to employees.
 y
Zero incidences of injury were reported during the year under 
review.
 y
Increased sanitisation at all locations with attention to high 
contact areas.
 y
Provision of adequate PPE, particularly in high exposure areas and 
functions.
 y
Awareness programmes for staff on safety measures to 
minimise the impact of COVID-19.
 y
Adoption of Government and Ministry of Health guidelines 
into all operations and site management arrangements of 
contractors/engineers. 
 y
Opportunities to 'work from home', on shift and roster basis, as 
applicable, for employees, to minimise exposure to COVID-19.
 y
Random PCR testing at operational sites for early detection 
and control of the spread of COVID-19.
 y
Development of standard operating procedures to ensure 
business continuity under various stressed scenarios.
Number of Employees 
272
Training (Hours)
2019/20
49%
2020/21
2,080
1,053
Training per Employee (Hours)
2019/20
50%
2020/21
8
4
The industry group continued in its efforts to maintain and strengthen 
relationships with its diverse stakeholders. Additional efforts were made 
to support the community on challenges faced due to COVID-19. 
SIGNIFICANT SUPPLIERS - PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT
 y
Construction contractors
 y
Architects and interior designers
SIGNIFICANT SUPPLIERS - RHL
 y
Food and beverage and amenities suppliers
 y
Travel agents and travel websites
 y
Casual employees
Social and Relationship Capital 
Health and Safety training conducted for contractors.

117
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
Supply Chain Management and Community Engagement
Relevance: Entrenching sustainability in the supply chain through 
supplier engagement thereby reducing risk and proactive community 
engagement towards building trust and promoting brand image
Supplier development
 y
Training sessions, including on-the-spot, special and 
refresher trainings, 'tool box talks', chemical handling, stores 
management, firefighting, emergency evacuation and Control 
of Substances Hazardous to Health Regulations (COSHH) were 
completed for workers at 'Cinnamon Life' and 'Tri-Zen'. 
 y
All companies reviewed and tested business continuity plans 
on a regular basis to ensure risk management and adaptability, 
with additional focus and revisions made in light of COVID-19.
 y
Awareness sessions conducted by resource personnel from the 
National Hospital of Sri Lanka for tenants' staff, housekeeping 
and janitorial staff attached to mall operations on best practice 
in adherence to COVID-19 guidelines. 
 y
Full waiver of rent to tenants in all three malls during the 
lockdown, where malls remained closed to the public. Further, 
rent discounts were offered upon recommencement of mall 
operations.
Targets and initiatives during the year:
Community development
 y
Continued its collaboration with John Keells Foundation (JKF) 
in its 17-year public-private partnership with Sri Lanka Railways 
for refurbishing and maintaining the historic Slave Island 
railway station for the benefit of large numbers of commuters 
travelling to and from the city.
 y
The industry group funded and installed 8 handwashing 
stations at the Slave Island and Bambalapitiya railway stations 
and collaborated with JKF in disinfecting 5 schools and 
installing handwashing stations in 3 schools in Colombo 02. 
 y
Supported JKF in its livelihood development endeavours under 
John Keells 'Praja Shakthi' in Colombo 02, through:
 y
Ongoing needs assessment of infrastructure and capacity 
development activities to support street vendors and 
women engaged in catering services, particularly given 
additional challenges following the COVID-19 pandemic.
 y
Creating opportunities for daily wage earners (both 
unskilled and semi-skilled) affected by COVID-19 to work in 
construction sites in Colombo 02.
 y
3 English scholarships were awarded under JKF's English 
Language Scholarship Programme to high-performing school 
children in Rajawella.
Material topics and focus areas are as follows;

118   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
FINANCIAL SERVICES 
Key Indicators
Inputs (Rs.million)
2020/21
2019/20
%
2018/19
Total assets
 76,080 
 60,058 
 27 
 53,630 
Total equity
 19,465 
 18,376 
 6 
 17,244 
Total debt1
 143 
 331 
 (57)
 409 
Capital employed2
 19,906 
 18,972 
 5 
 17,653 
Employees3
 824 
 877 
 (6)
 797 
Outputs (Rs.million)
2020/21
2019/20
%
2018/19
Turnover4
 20,890 
 19,675 
 6 
 18,931 
EBIT
 3,360 
 2,755 
 22 
 3,021 
PBT
 3,360 
 2,755 
 22 
 2,966 
PAT
 2,497 
 2,222 
 12 
 4,007 
EBIT per employees
 4 
 3 
 30 
 4 
Carbon footprint
 992 
 1,388 
 (29)
 1,383 
1. Excludes lease liabilities.
2. For equity accounted investees, capital employed is representative of the Group's equity investment in these 
companies. This is inclusive of lease liabilities.
3. As per the sustainability reporting boundary.
4. Revenue is inclusive of the Group's share of equity accounted investees.
Contribution to the John Keells Group
Industry Group Structure 
Insurance
 y
Comprehensive life insurance solutions through Union Assurance PLC (UA).
 y
General insurance solutions through Fairfirst Insurance Limited (FIL).
Banking
 y
End-to-end banking solutions through Nations Trust Bank PLC (NTB).
 y
Network of branches for corporate, retail and small and medium enterprises 
(SMEs). 
 y
Sole acquirer of the flagship centurion product range of American Express 
cards in Sri Lanka.
 y
Largest issuer of credit cards in Sri Lanka.
Stockbroking
 y
Stockbroking services through a leading stockbroking company in Sri Lanka,  
John Keells Stock Brokers (JKSB).  
 y
Number of trade execution relationships with high-net-worth individuals, 
institutional investors, leading foreign securities houses and retail clients via an 
'online trading portal'.
14%
Revenue
42%
EBIT
5%
Capital 
Employed
1%
Carbon 
Footprint

119
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
MACROECONOMIC UPDATE
 y
Sri Lanka's financial services industry recorded a 11 per cent growth in CY2020 [CY2019: 2 
per cent]. The industry contributed 9 per cent to GDP during the year [CY2019: 8 per cent].
 y
The insurance industry recorded total assets at Rs.790.1 billion in CY2020, a 15 per cent 
growth against the previous year [CY2019: Rs.689.6 billion] while gross written premium 
(GWP) noted a 10 per cent increase to Rs.208.6 billion [CY2019: Rs.190.2 billion].
 y
The life insurance industry recorded a 16 per cent growth in GWP during CY2020, 
amounting to Rs.103.00 billion [CY2019: Rs.88.77 billion]. The growth in premiums were 
mainly driven by growth in group life and single premium products which in total grew 
by 92 per cent whilst regular new business premiums recorded a 51 per cent growth.
 y
Private sector credit growth increased to 6.5 per cent in CY2020 [CY2019: 4.2 per cent], 
driven by an accommodative monetary policy and various relief measures extended to 
the private sector to revive the economy.   
 y
Industry gross non-performing loans (NPL) increased marginally to 4.9 per cent in CY2020 
as a result of weak economic conditions [CY2019: 4.7 per cent].
 y
The Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) was closed for trading from 20 March to 11 May 
2020 due to the island-wide lockdown imposed to control the spread of COVID-19. 
Trading hours till 25 May 2020 were restricted to 2 hours, and to 3.5 hours thereafter, in 
comparison to the usual 5 hours of trading. 
 y
The All Share Price Index (ASPI) of the CSE recorded a 10.5 per cent gain in CY2020 
[CY2019: 1.3 per cent], the highest annual increase of the index since CY2014 whilst 
the Standard and Poor's Sri Lanka 20 (S&P SL20) index noted a 10.2 per cent decrease 
[CY2019: negative 6.3 per cent].
 y
Net foreign outflows amounted to Rs.51.3 billion in CY2020 on account of dampened investor 
sentiment in line with trends exhibited in emerging and frontier markets. Foreign purchases 
amounted to 20 per cent of total turnover in comparison to 36 per cent reported in CY2019.
 y
Daily average turnover stood at Rs.1.9 billion in CY2020, a 168 per cent increase against 
the previous year [CY2019: Rs.711 million], driven by high domestic investor participation 
in comparison to CY2019. The daily average turnover recorded in CY2020 was the highest 
daily average turnover recorded for a year since CY2011.
Key Policy and Regulatory Highlights
 y
The Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL) adopted an accommodative monetary policy stance 
during the year. The Standing Deposit Facility Rate (SDFR) and the Standing Lending 
Facility Rate (SLFR) were reduced 5 times by a total of 250 basis points (bps) each with  
the rates at 4.5 per cent and 5.5 per cent as at March 2021, respectively, whilst the 
Statutory Reserve Ratio (SRR) was reduced twice by a total of 300 bps to 2 per cent as at 
March 2021.
 y
Removal of debt repayment levy (DRL) and nation building tax (NBT) on financial services.
 y
CSE implemented the following:
 y
Automation of central depository system (CDS) account opening.
 y
Electronic trade confirmations and account statements. 
 y
Digitisation of the rights issue subscription by shareholders.
COVID-19 Reliefs 
 y
The CBSL introduced a range of extraordinary regulatory measures through the banking 
industry to support impacted businesses. These initiatives included debt moratoriums, lax 
debt recovery measures, special lending schemes at concessionary rates and interest rate 
caps on select lending products. 
 y
The Insurance Regulatory Commission of Sri Lanka (IRCSL) introduced a 3-month 
payment moratorium on policyholder insurance premiums.
 y
IRCSL also introduced robust regulatory requirements such as the requirement to report 
Risk Based Capital (RBC) disclosures on a monthly basis.
EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT AND OPERATIONAL REVIEW
Insurance 
Despite the challenging operating 
environment in light of the pandemic, the 
Life Insurance business, Union Assurance 
(UA) recorded a notable performance during 
CY2020. The business recorded a 13 per cent 
growth in GWP in CY2020, which amounted 
to Rs.13.11 billion [CY2019: Rs.11.65 billion]. 
However, regular new business premiums 
recorded a 15 per cent growth in CY2020 in 
comparison to the industry growth at 51 per 
cent, ranking UA as the fourth largest regular 
new business producer in the industry. 
The agency channel continued to be the 
primary driver of revenue, recording a revenue 
of Rs.10.85 billion in CY2020 [CY2019: Rs.9.97 
billion], accounting for 83 per cent of GWP. This 
was driven by initiatives such as realignment 
of agent incentive structures, launch of the 
'Million Dollar Round Table' (MDRT) talent 
pool programme, formation of a dedicated 
business development unit and the strategic 
branch rebranding and restructure. The 
bancassurance channel recorded a notable 
growth at 23 per cent, albeit off a lower base, 
increasing its contribution to GWP. To this end, 
UA also renewed the exclusive bancassurance 
partnership contract with NTB for an extended 
period of 5 years. The alternate channel, 
which acts as a complementary channel to 
the agency and bancassurance channels, 
recorded an encouraging performance during 
the year under review marking its first year of 
operations. 
The business continued to maintain a strong 
solvency position, despite the volatile market, 
with the Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR) at 341 
per cent as at CY2020, significantly above 
the minimum of 120 per cent CAR threshold 
stipulated by the IRCSL. Total assets under 
management as at Rs.62.60 billion in CY2020, 
was a 13 per cent growth [CY2019: Rs.55.25 
billion]. UA's investment portfolio stood at 
Rs.52.36 billion, recording a 17 per cent growth 
in CY2020, despite the prevailing low interest 
rate regime. 
Claims and benefits to policyholders recorded 
an 8 per cent growth to Rs.3.79 billion primarily 
in lieu of maturity payouts in line with UA's 
contractual obligations whilst underwriting 
and net acquisition costs increased by 15 per 
cent in line with revenue growth.

120   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
FINANCIAL SERVICES
The Life Insurance business recorded a surplus of Rs.825 million [CY2019: Rs.1.00 billion] as per the 
actuarial valuation carried out during the year. The distribution of a one-off surplus of Rs.3.38 billion 
- attributable to non-participating and non-unit fund of unit linked business, which was transferred 
from the life policyholder fund to the life shareholder fund in 2017/18 based on the directive dated 
20 March 2018 issued by IRCSL to the entire insurance industry - continues to remain restricted 
subject to meeting governance requirements stipulated by the IRCSL and can only be released 
upon receiving approval from the IRCSL.
During CY2020, UA continued its 'digital first' business model in line with its mission of positioning 
itself as the foremost digital life insurance company in Sri Lanka. To this end, the following 
initiatives were carried out:
 y
Launch of 'Clicklife', a turnkey end-to-end digital insurance solution and the 'Clicklife self-
services app', that provides customised solutions at a click of a button. Clients gain access to 
their policies and related details including balances, dues, claim status and loan submission. 
The user-friendly interface, real-time updates and omission of tedious paperwork has made 
'Clicklife' a modern-day customer service solution.  
 y
The 'lapse prevention project' which uses advanced data analytics to predict insurance policies 
that are likely to lapse in a period of 3-6 months and recommend customer-specific interventions.
COVID-19: IMPACT AND MITIGATION AT UA
In adapting to the challenges that prevailed during the pandemic, UA adopted a forward-
looking digitalised approach combined with prudent cost management strategies.
Impact
 y
The imposition of the lockdown in March 2020 restricted operations of the island-wide 
branch network and on-site operations at the head office.
 y
Sales across all channels were disrupted with agents and insurance relationship officers 
(IROs) being unable to access customers through traditional forms of engagement.
 y
The lower interest rate trajectory impacted investment returns of life insurers leading to a 
reduction in margins.
Measures Taken 
 y
Realigned the asset allocation strategy and rebalanced the investment portfolio to 
optimise returns to address the low interest rate regime. 
 y
Launched digital products and implemented digital engagement channels such as its first 
mass scale e-platform 'Clicklife', and expansion of the functionality of the digital customer 
portal to enable remote premium collection. 
 y
Commenced 24/7 call centre operations.
 y
Automation of processes relating to new business and claims review and feedback within 
48 hours to ensure an uninterrupted service. 
 y
50 per cent of the planned annualised new business premiums (ANBP) and 77 per cent of 
the planned GWP were achieved during March - June 2020, through digital means.
 y
A cost control committee was set up to manage expenditure supported by several cross 
functional initiatives focused on expense realignment and cash flow management, 
yielding a total cost benefit of ~Rs.80 million.
 y
Introduced a free COVID-19 life cover for policyholders. 
 y
First insurance provider in the market to negotiate with reinsurers and extend its hospital 
cash benefit product for quarantine treatments. 
 y
Introduced a group surgical product, enabling greater market penetration and earnings 
growth in the B2B life insurance segment. 
 y
No. 1 position in Sri Lanka setting 
a new record of 172 'Million Dollar 
Round Table' (MDRT) qualifiers. MDRT 
association is a member-based, 
international network of leading 
insurance and investment financial 
services professionals.
 y
'Domestic Life Insurer of the Year', 'New 
Insurance Product of the Year', and 
'Digital Insurance Initiative of the Year' 
at the Insurance Asia Awards 2020. 
 y
Insurance sector winner in the 
inaugural ranking of 'LMD's Most 
Awarded'.
 y
'Best Brand', 'Sustainable Marketing 
Excellence', and the 'Best Employer 
Brand' at the Chief Marketing Officer 
(CMO) Global, CMO Asia and the 
World Human Resource Development 
(HRD) Congress, respectively.
 y
Winner of 'Great Place to Work' title for 
the 8th consecutive year.
AWARDS
Banking 
NTB's agile and digitally savvy nature augured 
well during the challenging year under review, 
with the Bank demonstrating strong resilience. 
The Bank continued to manage its risk-return 
dynamics and curtail lending to certain 
segments in view of a deterioration in economic 
conditions which witnessed an industry-wide 
erosion in credit quality and a moderation in risk 
appetite, resulting in a 7 per cent contraction 
in loans and advances in CY2020. Lacklustre 
credit demand from the private sector also 
contributed to this contraction. The deposits 
base recorded a 6 per cent increase, due to a 
moderation in consumer spending. 
Additionally, the low interest rate trajectory, 
interest rate caps, debt moratoria and 
concessionary loans coupled with dampened 
credit demand also impacted net interest 
income (NII), which recorded a 15 per cent 
decline to Rs.13.67 billion in CY2020. In tandem, 
net interest margin (NIM) contracted to 4.1 per 
cent as at CY2020 [CY2019: 4.9 per cent].
The deposits base recorded 
a 6 per cent increase, due to 
a moderation in consumer 
spending.

121
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
COVID-19: IMPACT AND MITIGATION - NTB
The unprecedented nature of the challenges during the year, necessitated a robust and 
proactive approach to cost and risk management. To this end, NTB adapted to the ever 
changing 'new normal' by placing emphasis on operational efficiencies, digitisation initiatives 
and providing customer centric services.    
Impact 
 y
Regulations imposed by CBSL adversely impacted NII and exerted pressure on NIMs. 
 y
Regulation governing credit card interest and fee waivers, imposed for a limited time, 
affected the consumer banking sector.
 y
Restrictions on imports impacted the leasing business segment. 
 y
Lacklustre performance of the economy, resulting in reduced disposable income affected 
loan profiles and impairment.  
Measures taken 
 y
Disbursed Rs.1.80 billion under the 'Saubhagya COVID-19 Renaissance Facility' of CBSL.
 y
Launched the 'Nations Diriya Loan Scheme', a Rs.7.00 billion internally generated fund 
with the aim of providing working capital facilities for exporters and local manufacturers.  
 y
Managed risk-return dynamics and optimised lending across the segments.
 y
Rolled out a range of digitisation initiatives such as the digitalising of the delivery 
platform, enhancing the mobile banking platform, 'FriMi', and the automation of 
customer onboarding.
 y
Focused on portfolio quality through data analytics and customer scorecards.
 y
Dispatched mobile ATMs for customers during the lockdown period.
 y
Conducted proactive negotiations with suppliers.
 y
Established a cost management unit within the finance functions to proactively identify 
avenues for cost control.
Efficient cost management initiatives aided 
the Bank in reducing operating costs by 9 per 
cent, which favourably impacted the cost to 
income ratio which stood at 46.3 per cent 
in comparison to 47.9 per cent in CY2019, 
considerably better than the industry average 
of 52.4 per cent. Impairment charges increased 
by 16 per cent, in contrast to the overall 
industry which recorded a 37 per cent increase 
in impairment charges. The NPL ratio increased 
to 7.2 per cent given the challenging external 
environment [CY2019: 6.2 per cent]. 
NTB secured a USD 20 million funding line 
from a development finance institution during 
the year. This, coupled with an increase in the 
capital base, aided the Bank in strengthening 
its capital position whilst maintaining 
adequate capital buffers in line with regulatory 
requirements. The Bank's Tier I capital and total 
capital ratios stood at 14.8 per cent and 18.3 
per cent, respectively [CY2019: 13.3 per cent 
and 18.0 per cent, respectively]. The Bank's 
total capital ratio remains comfortably above 
the required threshold of 12.0 per cent under 
the Basel III framework.
NTB continued to focus on its customers 
by offering tailor-made solutions and 
flexible repayment schemes. The Bank also 
focused on its digital offering by enhancing 
the direct banking platform, 'FriMi' and 
digital onboarding of customers. 'FriMi' was 
strategically repositioned from a wallet-based 
offering to a fully-fledged digital bank which 
includes features such as account creation and 
digital onboarding. NTB was also successful in 
maintaining its position as the largest issuer 
of credit cards in Sri Lanka. As a result of these 
initiatives, digital transactions accounted for 
82 per cent of the Bank's total transactions, 
in comparison to 72 per cent in CY2019. 
Customer satisfactory score and net promoter 
score improved to 96 per cent and 76 per cent, 
respectively [CY2019: 92 per cent and 72 per 
cent, respectively]. 
'FriMi' 
 y
'Best New Digital Bank in Sri Lanka 
2020' by Global Banking and Finance 
Awards. 
 y
Ranked among 'Sri Lanka's Top 10 
E-commerce Brands 2020' by LMD.
 y
Gold award in the 'Digital Brand 
Bravery' category at SLIM DIGIS 2.0.
AWARDS
Stockbroking 
Whilst the prolonged economic downturn following the spread of COVID-19 presented JKSB, the 
stockbroking arm of the Group, with significant challenges at the outset, this reversed towards the 
third quarter of the year under review with a gradual tapering thereafter. Market performance was 
adversely impacted by the closure of the CSE from 20 March 2020 to 11 May 2020 and external 
pressures stemming from a flight of funds in the first half of the year under review. However, the 
prevailing low interest rate regime coupled with a notable increase in domestic participation aided 
a recovery in the equity market indices and a significant rise in market turnover levels. 
JKSB continued to focus on updating its processes and systems to improve alignment with client 
needs during the year, particularly in light of the challenges posed by the pandemic. To this end, 
the business adopted digitalised solutions and efficient cost management methods to strengthen 
front and back-office operations. In furtherance of better addressing client requirements, the 
business launched an online platform for investors whilst also conducting client engagement 
sessions and investor fora via the platform.
'Clicklife', a turnkey end-to-end digital 
insurance solution.
'Nations Diriya Loan Scheme', an internally generated fund with 
the aim of providing working capital facilities for exporters and 
local manufacturers.

122   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT REVIEW
The section that ensues discusses the performance of the industry group during the year under review, under the key forms of Capital applicable for 
the industry group.
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
FINANCIAL SERVICES
Financial and Manufactured Capital
Income Statement Indicators 
As the key businesses within the industry group comprise of the Banking 
and Insurance sectors, the ensuing discussion will predominantly focus 
on PBT and PAT, in order to capture the net earnings of the businesses as 
reflected in the financial statements of the Group.
Rs.million
2020/21
2019/20
%
PBT*
Insurance   
1,596
1,500
6
Banking
1,594
1,291
23
Stockbroking 
170
(36)
574
Total
3,360
2,755
22
* Share of results of equity accounted investees are shown net of all related taxes.
Insurance 
 y
Although the performance of the business was impacted in the months 
of April and May 2020, the business witnessed a strong recovery in its 
GWP with the easing of restrictions in May. This recovery momentum 
continued across the quarters. 
 y
GWP increased by 18 per cent during the year under review [2019/20: 
5 per cent]. The growth in GWP was driven by a 24 per cent increase in 
regular new business premiums and an increase in renewal premiums.  
 y
Benefits and claims increased by 15 per cent to Rs.3.90 billion 
[2019/20: Rs.3.39billion] on account of higher maturity payouts in 
accordance with contractual obligations. Net claims amounted to 29 
per cent of net written premiums [2019/20: 30 per cent].
 y
Underwriting and net acquisition costs increased by 19 per cent to 
Rs.2.27 billion in line with GWP growth.
 y
Investment income in 2020/21 stood at Rs.5.16 billion, a 10 per cent 
growth in comparison to 2019/20, supported by a realignment of the 
asset allocation, despite a decline in market interest rates.
 y
Despite the non-recurring expenses incurred in lieu of the strategic 
brand restructure and rebranding, the business managed to curtail 
the growth in operational expenses to 3 per cent during the year 
under review, supported by stringent cost optimising strategies 
rolled out across the business.
 y
Life insurance contract liabilities including unit-linked funds increased 
by 18 per cent to Rs.45.20 billion, due to an increase in contract 
liabilities by Rs.6.97 billion.
 y
Change in contract liabilities in lieu of the life fund increased by 25 
per cent to Rs.7.03 billion.
 y
UA recorded an annual life insurance surplus of Rs.825 million 
2020/21, a decline against the life insurance surplus of Rs.1.00 billion 
recorded in the previous year. 
 y
Fairfirst Insurance Limited, an equity accounted investee under UA, 
with interests in the general insurance industry, recorded a 24 per 
cent increase in PAT.
Banking 
 y
Despite the challenging environment which resulted in a decline in 
revenue, NTB recorded an increase in profitability, given focused recovery 
efforts, cost management strategies and higher investment income.
 y
NTB recorded an 8 per cent decline in NII on the back of lower interest 
rates, interest rate ceilings, debt moratoria, and concessionary loan 
facilities extended to COVID-19 affected businesses whilst subdued 
demand for credit also hampered NII growth. 
 y
The impairment provision increased by 8 per cent mainly due to the 
additional provisions made in relation to elevated risk industries as a 
result of COVID-19. However, the NPL ratio remained static at 6.16 per 
cent in comparison to 6.23 per cent in 2019/20.
 y
Focused cost management strategies enabled the business in reducing 
operating expenses by 9 per cent, resulting in an improvement of the 
cost-to-income ratio to 43.4 per cent during the year under review 
[2019/20: 46.0 per cent].
Stockbroking 
 y
The Stockbroking business recorded a 197 per cent increase in 
revenue during the year under review, driven by a strong recovery 
in activity in the CSE towards the latter end of the year [2019/20: 
negative 33 per cent].
 y
Various initiatives aimed at managing its operational cost which 
resulted in productivity and cost efficiencies, coupled with a better 
absorption of fixed costs given the notable increase in revenue, 
contributed to the triple digit growth in profitability.
Rs.million
2020/21
2019/20
%
PAT*
Insurance
777
959
(19)
Banking
1,594
1,291
23
Stockbroking 
126
(28)
555
Total
2,497
2,222
12
* Share of results of equity accounted investees are shown net of all related taxes.
 y
Although PBT of the Life Insurance business remained steady against 
the previous year, the business recorded a higher tax expense in 
2020/21 which impacted profitability. This was driven by:
 y
An increase in the tax expense as a result of an expiry of claimable 
periods. 
 y
An impairment on notional tax credits of the business.
 y
Changes to the tax regime effective 1 January 2020, with the removal 
of DRL and NBT on financial services, resulted in a decrease in the tax 
expense, as the business was subject to DRL and NBT for 9 months 
of 2019/20 in contrast to the current year under review, where the 
business was not subject to both DRL and NBT. The revision of the 
income tax rate applicable to the banking sector from 28 per cent to 
24 per cent effective 1 January 2020, also had a positive impact. 

123
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
The impact on the Financial Services industry group's operations 
on the environment is comparatively lower than other operations, 
given its service-oriented nature of business. Regardless, the industry 
group makes continuous efforts to reduce its environmental footprint, 
wherever possible.  
Material topics and focus areas are as follows:
Natural Capital
Energy and Emissions Management
Relevance: Regulatory and brand reputation implications 
Targets and initiatives during the year:
Energy efficiency
 y
Minimise environmental impacts through energy conservation 
initiatives and sustainable infrastructure management such as 
replacement of traditional light bulbs with energy efficient LED 
bulbs as and when required.
Water, Waste and Effluent Management 
Relevance: Regulatory and brand reputation implications 
Waste management and effluent discharge 
 y
Effluents discharged met requisite water quality standards, 
where relevant.
 y
Continued operation of a wastewater treatment plant at a UA 
branch in Kurunegala.
 y
Responsible disposal of e-waste through certified third-party 
vendors.  
 y
Waste recycled by third-party recyclers included;
 y
270 fluorescent bulbs
 y
15,572 kg of paper
 y
1,040 kg of food waste
 y
60 kg of plastic
Targets and initiatives during the year:
Water efficiency
 y
Striving to minimise environmental impacts through 
sustainable water conservation initiatives and infrastructure 
management.
Carbon Footprint (MT)
2019/20
1,388
29%
992
2020/21
Given that Human Capital is considered one of the key resources in the 
industry group, several initiatives were carried out throughout the year 
to ensure employees were provided with a safe working environment. 
The industry group also continued building high performance teams 
through curated training and development programmes.
Human Capital 
Health and Safety
Relevance: Providing a safe working environment to improve 
employee productivity 
Targets and initiatives during the year:
Health and safety 
 y
The annual fire evacuation drill was conducted at the UA head 
office in association with the Colombo Fire Brigade.  
COVID-19 response
 y
Increased adoption of business continuity plans and awareness 
creation amongst staff on business protocols.
 y
UA commenced 'work from home', where applicable, ensuring 
necessary steps were taken to define all critical processes and 
operate with minimum interruptions.
 y
Workplace safety procedures, such as temperature checks 
upon entry, mandatory use of face masks and hand sanitisation 
facilities were rolled out at all locations.
Material topics and focus areas are as follows:
Training (Hours)
2019/20
69%
2020/21
9,641
2,969
Injuries (Number)
2019/20
35%
2020/21
20
13
*The above indicators relevant to 2020/21 have been impacted by COVID-19 work 
disruptions

124   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
Several engagements were carried out throughout the year for the 
stakeholders of the industry group aimed at empowering communities, 
fostering greater productivity and efficiency within the industry and 
economy. The industry group routinely engaged with customers, 
whilst maintaining a high level of productivity and efficiency in relation 
to service delivery. The industry group operated in accordance with 
statutory obligations and the Code of Conduct specified by the Group.
Community engagement activities during the year were aimed 
at supporting better living conditions within the community and 
preventing diseases.
SIGNIFICANT SUPPLIERS
 y
Reinsurance partners
 y
Janitorial services providers
 y
Security services providers
 y
Bancassurance partners
Social and Relationship Capital 
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
FINANCIAL SERVICES
Customer Satisfaction 
Relevance: Negative impact on key customer accounts, investor, 
and client confidence
Targets and initiatives during the year:
 y
UA launched the first free COVID-19 cover and hospitalisation 
claims in the life insurance industry.
 y
Submission of insurance proposals from claims management 
to servicing were permitted via a digital platform at UA in 
support of business continuity during the lockdown period. 
 y
A 24/7 hotline and chat feature were activated to 
accommodate customer complaints during the lockdown 
period, ensuring continuous support to UA customers.
 y
Continuous dialogue with the customer base through regional 
and zonal managers, to strengthen customer well-being, whilst 
extending support on premium payments and renewals. 
 y
UA introduced the 'Clicklife' self-service app to stimulate in-
app premium payments, claims, and policy loan submissions, 
amongst other functions. 
Talent Management 
Relevance: The need to continuously upgrade the skills of existing staff  
Targets and initiatives during the year:
Training and development
 y
For the first time in history, UA emerged as the largest producer 
of 'Million Dollar Round Table' (MDRT) professionals in Sri 
Lanka, with 172 MDRT qualifiers, including 10 Court of the 
Table (COT) and 5 Top of the Table (TOT) achievers. MDRT is 
a global premier association of life insurance and financial 
services professionals, whilst COT and TOT are standard targets 
for MDRT members. 
 y
Introduction of the HIPO (High Potential Individuals) 
programme which aims to develop employees at mid-
level positions on cross functional areas and assist in talent 
identification. 
 y
Introduction of the SMT (Senior Management Team) 
programme covering high level decision-making and 
idea generation platforms to aid career development and 
succession planning.
 y
A virtual forum titled 'Balance for Better' was held for all female 
employees on International Women's Day.
Union Assurance introduced the 'Clicklife' self-service app.
Material topics and focus areas are as follows; 

125
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
Community Engagement 
Relevance: Proactive community engagement towards building 
trust and promoting brand image
Targets and initiatives during the year:
 y
'Sisumaga+', a protection-based education plan for children 
was launched by UA. Further, in partnership with SOS 
Children's Village, UA supported the education needs of 170 
underprivileged children in Nuwara Eliya and Monaragala.
 y
UA offered a scholarship scheme to 5 children from the School 
for the Deaf and Blind in Ratmalana, which enables each 
recipient to receive Rs.1 million over 10 years to pursue their 
higher education.
 y
UA distributed essential items with the support of the 
Government Medical Officers' Association (GMOA) to 650 
persons in elders' and children's homes in the Uva, Southern 
and North Western provinces.
 y
UA distributed food packs to 500 households in the 
Wanathamulla housing scheme, which was declared an 
isolated area, at the time, due to the spread of COVID-19.
 y
Under JKF's 'Project WAVE', UA launched a company-wide 
campaign on zero tolerance on workplace harassment 
and gender-based violence, including an email and poster 
campaign and awareness sessions, for 150 staff.
 y
Under JKF's English Language Scholarship Programme, 9 
scholarships were awarded to high-performing school children 
in Vavuniya.
 y
UA facilitated ground support to JKF in coordinating the 
closure of JKF's 7-year Village Adoption Project in Mullaitivu 
and participated at the public vesting of the anicut built in 
Iranaipalai to support farm irrigation. 
Ethics, Fraud, and Corruption 
Relevance: Impact on brand reputation and possible regulatory 
non-compliance
Targets and initiatives during the year:
 y
Ensured coverage of fraud, corruption, and unethical behaviour 
under the overall risk management process of the Group and 
statutory requirements.
 y
Training on anti-money laundering was provided to 968 
distributors and bancassurance agents of UA through video 
modules.

126   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
OTHER, INCLUDING 
INFORMATION
TECHNOLOGY AND 
PLANTATION SERVICES
Key Indicators
Inputs (Rs.million)
2020/21
2019/20
%
2018/19
Total assets
 81,241 
 43,096 
 89 
 56,329 
Total equity
 30,367 
 38,495 
 (21)
 40,996 
Total debt1
 47,562 
 2,705 
 1,658 
 13,222 
Capital employed2
 77,930 
 41,200 
 89 
 54,218 
Employees3
 1,196 
 1,335 
 (10)
 1,303 
Outputs (Rs.million)
2020/21
2019/20
%
2018/19*
Turnover
 3,949 
 3,803 
 4 
 3,754 
EBIT
 2,907 
 1,178 
 147 
 4,061 
PBT
 3,291 
 2,817 
 17 
 5,915 
PAT
 2,356 
 2,065 
 14 
 3,861 
EBIT per employee
 2 
 1 
 175 
 3 
Carbon footprint
 2,543 
 3,012 
 (16)
 3,255 
1. Excludes lease liabilities.
2. Includes lease liabilities.
3. As per the sustainability reporting boundary.
Contribution to the John Keells Group
Industry Group Structure 
Information Technology 
IT Services
 y
John Keells IT (JKIT) - a boutique IT 
consultancy and professional services 
organisation with a vision to simplify 
and digitally transform organisations 
to be relevant in the data-driven 
experience economy.
 y
Key focus areas:
 y
Core solutions and transformation 
services.
 y
Cloud solutions and 
transformation services.
 y
Software solutions and 
transformation services.
 y
Smart solutions and 
transformation services.
IT-Enabled Services
 y
Infomate - a business process 
outsourcing (BPO) service provider 
with the mandate of driving greater 
efficiencies for their clientele.
 y
Key focus areas:
 y
Finance and accounting.
 y
Payroll management.
 y
Data digitisation.
Plantation Services 
Other
 y
John Keells PLC (JK PLC) – a leading tea and rubber broker.
 y
Tea Smallholder Factories PLC (TSF):
 y
Operates 7 factories.
 y
Leading manufacturer of low grown Orthodox and CTC teas in the country.
 y
John Keells Warehousing (JKW) – operates a state-of-the-art warehouse for 
pre-auction produce.
 y
JKH (Holding Company) and other businesses (Centre Functions/Divisions).
3%
Revenue
37%
EBIT
19%
Capital 
Employed
3%
Carbon 
Footprint

127
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
MACROECONOMIC UPDATE
Information Technology 
 y
Businesses across the globe continued to invest in technology to accelerate the digitisation 
of operations and value chains whilst exploring avenues for transformation in creating better 
value for all its stakeholders.
 y
During the year, the pace of digitisation accelerated with the outbreak of COVID-19 as brick 
and mortar activities were curtailed and relevant initiatives were carried out to sustain the 
'new normal'.
 y
The industry witnessed increased demand for integrated solutions that aided the 
aforementioned transformation to the 'new normal', in terms of core modernisation, cloud 
enablement, collaboration, mobility, location based services, hyperautomation, advanced 
analytics, digital identity management, cyber resilience, managed services and other 
solutions stacks.
 y
Challenges on the back of the COVID-19 pandemic impacted the information technology 
industry, locally, due to the economic downturn, and internationally, due to travel restrictions 
which caused an inflationary pressure on growth and impacted regional expansion.
 y
Prior to the impact of COVID-19, Sri Lanka's information technology and BPO industries 
increased its exports by threefold whilst doubling its workforce from 2015 to 2020, thereby 
recording a growth of 120 per cent during this period. Current exports from the industry 
stand at over USD 1 billion, a key growth area in the economy and the fifth largest export 
segment. As per Sri Lanka's National Export Strategy 2018-2022 (NES) the industry envisions 
USD 5 billion in revenue and 1,000 start-ups by 2022. Sri Lanka continued to gain traction as 
a global BPO destination. To this end, the destination was also ranked 25th among the 'Top 
50 Global Outsourcing Destinations in 2019' by AT Kearney.  
Plantation Services 
 y
Global tea production contracted in CY2020 due to adverse weather conditions in many 
major tea producing countries. Kenya, was one of the only exceptions, recording a notable 
increase in production largely in lieu of a lower base as CY2019 was characterised by lower 
production on the back of a drought. Global tea production decreased by 2 per cent to 6.01 
billion kg in CY2020, with China continuing to be the largest source market.
 y
Sri Lanka recorded a marginal decline in tea production to 278,489 MT during CY2020 
[CY2019: 300,134 MT] with both high grown and low grown production declining by 1 per 
cent and 11 per cent, respectively. The decline in production was primarily due to adverse 
weather conditions and supply chain challenges. 
 y
Sri Lanka tea exports for CY2020 stood at 265.6 million kg in comparison to 292.7 million 
kg recorded in CY2019. Turkey retained the number one position as the largest importer of 
Sri Lankan tea in CY2020 followed by Iraq, Russia, Iran, and China. Further, China and Chile 
recorded a 19 per cent and 30 per cent increase in imports, respectively.
 y
Given global supply-demand dynamics, average tea prices at the Colombo Tea Auction 
increased by Rs.87.18 per kg to an average price of Rs.633.85 in CY2020 in comparison to the 
average price of Rs.546.67 in CY2019. 
EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT AND OPERATIONAL REVIEW
Key Policy and Regulatory 
Highlights
 y
Effective 5 March 2021, the daily wage 
of plantation workers was increased 
to Rs.1,000, entailing a basic salary of 
Rs.900 and a budgetary allowance of 
Rs.100 per day. Factory workers at TSF 
are also entitled to this increase.  
COVID-19 Reliefs and Initiatives 
 y
The Colombo Tea Auction transitioned 
onto an electronic platform for the 
first time in history in April 2020, given 
strict curfew measures imposed by the 
Government to curtail the spread of 
COVID-19, at the time. This initiative was 
undertaken by the Colombo Tea Traders' 
Association (CTTA) and supported by 
the Colombo Brokers' Association (CBA). 
The tea auction continues to effectively 
operate through this online platform 
to-date. 
 y
In order to sustain the tea export 
industry, the Government suspended 
Cess of Rs.3.50 charged per kg of tea for 
a period of 6 months.
Information Technology 
John Keells IT (JKIT) sustained its growth momentum in the year under review by strengthening 
global partnerships and adopting prudent cost curtailment measures. JKIT further augmented 
its partnerships with SAP, Microsoft, and UiPath across Sri Lanka, United Arab Emirates (UAE), and 
Qatar, which enabled the business to acquire an elevated level of accreditation as a 'Gold level' 
partner with all three entities. 
The solutions stacks were 
rebranded as 'JKIT-Core',  
'JKIT-Cloud', 'JKIT-Platforms', 
and 'JKIT-Ecosystems' with four 
strategic business units focusing 
to deliver an end-to-end value 
proposition.

128   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
OTHER, INCLUDING INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND PLANTATION SERVICES
The COVID-19 pandemic exerted pressures 
on the business's expansion strategy across 
international markets. As a result, Go-to-Market 
(GTM) partnerships and operations in Sri Lanka, 
Asia Pacific (APAC) and Middle East and North 
Africa (MENA) regions were consolidated. The 
business also deferred projects envisaged for 
the year, given pandemic induced constraints. 
Despite these challenges, the business was 
successful in strengthening its relationship 
with international partners, with JKIT being 
recognised as the SAP partner centre of 
expertise (PCOE) in the MENA region and a 
global Microsoft power business intelligence 
(BI) partner.
During the year under review, the solutions 
stacks were rebranded as 'JKIT-Core', 'JKIT-
Cloud', 'JKIT-Platforms', and 'JKIT-Ecosystems' 
with four strategic business units focusing 
to deliver an end-to-end value proposition. 
Further, JKIT expanded its portfolio of services 
by providing training on its power platform 
to both internal and external customers. JKIT, 
as a Microsoft global learning partner, also 
conducted training sessions in the Middle East 
and South East Asian regions.
In order to enable seamless operations across 
multiple time zones, the business streamlined 
its core processes of pre-sales, sales, delivery 
and support on a cloud-based platform. 
With the aim of further strengthening the 
brand, JKIT conducted digital and print media 
campaigns including a series of webinars co-
branded with the business's principal partners 
and clients. 
During the year under review, JKIT focused on 
delivering innovative solutions to clients by 
providing consultative solutions and services 
across the four value stacks of 'Core', 'Cloud', 
'Platforms' and 'Ecosystems'. To this end, the 
business launched a multitude of IT based 
solutions such as:
 y
Smart Office - A single platform 
encompassing multiple processes with 
built-in features to provide a customisable, 
secure, and comprehensive solutions for all 
types of workflows. 
 y
Smart Homes - JKIT in collaboration with 
Sri Lanka Telecom PLC, introduced a 
turnkey smart home consumer solution 
exclusively for residents of 'Tri-Zen'. The 
proposed smart-living package will feature 
a single integrated portal for homeowners 
to monitor and automate the apartment 
through a smart phone application. 
 y
John Keells IT
Microsoft 
 y
SAP Azure Partner of the Year 
2019/20 
 y
Migrate Partner of the Year 
2019/20
 y
Innovate Partner of the Year -  
Sri Lanka and the Maldives 2019/20
UiPath
 y
Partner of the Year 2020
 y
UiPath Excellence in Automation 
Awards Sri Lanka 2020
 y
Infomate
 y
First place – Sri Lanka Association 
of Software and Services 
Companies (SLASSCOM) RPA in 
the Business Process Management 
(BPM) category 
AWARDS
Plantation Services 
The tea industry remained resilient during 
the year under review, despite the challenges 
encountered with the outbreak of COVID-19. 
Given the restrictions in movement and the 
need to adhere to stringent guidelines of 
health authorities, the Colombo Tea Traders 
Association (CTTA) and Colombo Brokers 
Association (CBA) proactively implemented an 
online digital tea auction system in April 2020 
to ensure business continuity even during 
lockdowns. This timely initiative proved to be 
fruitful to the industry and to Tea Smallholder 
Factories PLC (TSF), as Sri Lanka emerged as 
the first tea exporter to resume tea auctions, 
with the cessation of operations being limited 
to two weeks. 
Despite the adverse weather conditions that 
prevailed during the year under review, TSF 
recorded a 6 per cent increase in volumes. 
Volumes at TSF stood at 3,631 MT in 2020/21 
[2019/20: 3,438 MT]. During the year under 
review, TSF automated certain processes by 
adopting a simplified green leaf weighing and 
data entry system which led to an increase in 
productivity.
John Keells PLC recorded an encouraging 
performance increasing its market share to 
13 per cent during the year under review 
[2019/20: 12 per cent]. A notable increase 
in volumes of the high grown and medium 
grown elevations contributed to this 
improvement. To this end, trade volumes in 
the tea industry increased by 0.3 per cent in 
contrast to a 3.4 per cent increase at JK PLC. 
The Colombo tea auction 
proactively transitioned to 
an online platform with the 
onset of COVID-19.
 y
Smart Retail - A multifaceted mobile 
application offering simple yet interactive 
shopping experiences to customers, 
whilst providing critical insights to retailers 
to enhance customer experience. The 
Supermarket business of the Group 
leverages on this mobile application to 
provide its customers the ability to virtually 
browse a complete product catalogue 
and available deals, whilst enabling a more 
personalised shopping experience.
 y
Smart Airports - A bespoke mobile 
application offering a contactless boarding 
process at airports, ensuring minimal 
interaction with airport staff. 
 y
Smart Automotive - A platform which 
assists in the adoption of robotic process 
automation (RPA) within organisations.
Despite the challenges encountered on 
the back of the COVID-19 pandemic, the 
Group's BPO operations in Sri Lanka, Infomate, 
recorded an encouraging performance during 
the year under review. In addition to its key 
client accounts, which the business continued 
to sustain during the year, the business was 
also successful in acquiring new business, 
particularly from the Middle East, thereby 
expanding its geographic footprint. Expansion 
of its portfolio of services, through the 
establishment of additional help desk services, 
human resources (HR) outsourcing services 
and lead generation services aided the 
business in continuing its growth momentum.
Tea auctions were conducted via an online platform 
implemented by CTTA and CBA.

129
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
The Company entered 
into a long-term financing 
agreement with the 
International Finance 
Corporation (IFC) for USD 175 
million to support funding 
of the Holding Company's 
investment pipeline.
COVID-19: IMPACT AND MITIGATION - PLANTATION SERVICES 
The Plantation Services sector adapted to the challenges presented by the COVID-19 
pandemic by executing cost saving initiatives and improving production efficiency. 
Impact 
 y
The Colombo tea auction proactively transitioned to an online platform with the onset of 
the COVID-19 pandemic in Sri Lanka, with its first online tea auction held on 4 April 2020. 
 y
During April 2020, Colombo and Mombasa (Kenya) tea auctions were the only tea 
auctions in operation. The demand-supply dynamics of the market paved way to an 
increase in tea prices, whilst the depreciation of the Rupee also aided an increase in 
foreign demand for tea. 
 y
Disruptions to global trade and supply chains on account of the pandemic resulted in 
delays in shipments and clearance processes at ports. 
 y
Delays in remittances from overseas buyers exerted pressure on the working capital cycle.
 y
During the first lockdown, CTTA mandated the provision of additional storage to 
exporters, free-of-charge, for select periods from the due date of collection, which had an 
adverse impact on JKW.
Measures taken 
 y
The Government's identification of tea as an essential service encouraged all stakeholders 
to continue their respective business operations, even during periods where curfew was 
declared.
 y
The factories continued to operate, with added measures pertaining to social distancing 
and health and safety, as advised by health officials. The harvesting of green leaf by 
smallholders also continued with minimal disruption and arrangements were put in place 
for responsible collection. 
 y
Invested in digital infrastructure to enable a seamless operation from the business's end 
when participating in the online tea auction. 
 y
Stringent cost control measures were adopted across all businesses. 
The Holding Company rolled out various 
measures to ensure a sustainable and agile 
operating model, with a focused view on cash 
management and liquidity, in particular. While 
the Group had a strong cash position and 
availability of banking facilities at the onset of 
the COVID-19 pandemic, continued focus was 
placed on ensuring balance sheet strength to 
support the investment pipeline of the Group. 
On 23 June 2020, the Company entered into 
a long-term financing agreement with the 
International Finance Corporation (IFC) for 
USD 175 million to support funding of the 
Holding Company's investment pipeline. This 
facility is IFC's largest investment to-date in 
Sri Lanka. The proceeds from the facility is 
earmarked to fund the Group's expansion 
of its Supermarket business, investments in 
hotels in the Maldives and Sri Lanka and for 
general corporate investments.
The key features of the financing facility are as 
follows:
 y
Rate basis: 6-month LIBOR plus margin of 
380 basis points
 y
Step-down pricing mechanism: A step-
down pricing mechanism to a margin of 
355 basis points by March 2024
 y
Tenor: Ten-year tenor till June 2030
 y
Grace period: Four years with capital 
repayments commencing in December 2024
Although the entirety of the loan was drawn 
down during the year under review, there  
was no impact on net debt since the cash 
balance was also retained at the Holding 
Company level. 
The impact on the depreciation of the Rupee 
was managed within the Group as the Holding 
Company maintained a strong net cash 
position, with sufficient USD reserves. Given 
that the debt drawdown from the IFC facility 
was retained as cash in Dollars at the Holding 
Company, as noted above, there was no Dollar 
exposure on this front as well.
Other
In addition to the Plantation Services and Information Technology sectors, the Other, including 
Information Technology and Plantation Services industry group also entails the performance of 
the Holding Company and its various divisions. In addition to the support functions, the Holding 
Company also includes:
 y
OCTAVE, the Group's Data and Advanced Analytics Centre of Excellence 
 y
John Keells Research, the research and development arm of the Group
 y
John Keells X, a corporate start-up accelerator
 y
'Plasticcycle', the Group's social entrepreneurship initiative
Detailed discussion of each of the above functions is found in the Intellectual Capital and Natural Capital 
sections of the Capital Management Review - page 38
Holding Company 
Due to the unprecedented circumstances that prevailed with the spread of COVID-19, processes 
and frameworks were rolled out by the Holding Company in discussion with the businesses, 
leading to significant cost savings on both operational and fixed costs. Proactive and precautionary 
health and safety measures were also taken across the Group to mitigate the risk of spreading 
COVID-19, in compliance with guidelines stipulated by health authorities. 
Refer Capital Management Review – Financial and Manufactured Capital, for a detailed discussion - page 38

130   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
OTHER, INCLUDING INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND PLANTATION SERVICES
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT REVIEW
The section that ensues discusses the performance of the industry group during the year under review, under the key forms of Capital applicable for 
the industry group.
Financial and Manufactured Capital
The Group recognises the strong interlinkage between natural resources 
and the plantations industry in Sri Lanka, and thus continues to focus on 
managing its Natural Capital effectively and efficiently. The continuous 
collaborations and partnerships with international conservation bodies 
assist the Plantation Services sector to remain on par with international 
best practice and standards in order to engrain sustainability throughout 
its supply chain. These practices aid the businesses in applying 
sustainable and eco-friendly agricultural practices, which continue to 
gain traction in modern agricultural operations.
The Information Technology (IT) sector and the Group's Centre functions 
carry out operations in line with the Group's Environmental policies 
and the IT sector continues to enhance process efficiencies whilst 
monitoring activities on a regular basis, with the objective of energy 
conservation and identifying other potential areas for energy efficient 
solutions. The industry group ensures that e-waste generated is disposed 
in compliance with Group policies, in a responsible manner to minimise 
environmental impacts. 
Natural Capital
Income Statement Indicators 
Rs.million
2020/21
2019/20
%
Revenue
Information Technology 
1,088
1,156
(6)
Plantation Services
2,782
2,615
6
Other
79
32
144
Total
3,949
3,803
4
 y
Revenue growth of the industry group was driven by the Plantation 
Services sector due to an increase in tea volumes and tea prices as 
outlined under the Operational Review section.
 y
The global spread of COVID-19 impacted revenues of existing 
businesses, although this was partially offset through the acquisition 
of new clients at both Infomate and JKIT. 
 y
The growth in revenue of the Holding Company is primarily on 
account of higher commercial income and legal fees from associates. 
Rs.million
2020/21
2019/20
%
EBITDA
Information Technology 
368
343
7
Plantation Services
369
74
398
Other
2,363
923
156
Total
3,100
1,340
131
PBT
Information Technology 
350
325
8
Plantation Services
249
(105)
338
Other
2,692
2,597
4
Total
3,291
2,817
17
 y
The EBITDA of the Holding Company was positively impacted by 
higher interest income, due to the drawdown of the USD 175 million 
long-term loan facility from IFC. However, the impact to PBT was 
negligible due to a corresponding increase in interest expense on 
account of the loan.  
 y
The PBT of the Holding Company includes a foreign currency 
exchange gain on its net USD denominated cash, on account of the 
depreciation of the USD/LKR exchange rate. The USD cash reserves 
include equity earmarked for the 'Cinnamon Life' project and 
proceeds from the IFC facility. 
 y
Despite the decrease in revenue, the Information Technology sector 
recorded an increase in profitability on the back of stringent cost 
saving and expense control measures. 
 y
It is noted that profitability of the Plantation Services sector in 
2019/20 included a material impairment of debtors at John Keells 
PLC considering the stresses faced by tea producers due to lower tea 
prices at the time, which distorts the year-on-year comparison. 
 y
The industry group recorded fair value gains on investment property 
(IP) of Rs.18 million which primarily stemmed from the Plantation 
Services sector. Recurring EBITDA for the industry group, excluding fair 
value gains on IP amounted to Rs.3.08 billion [2019/20: Rs.1.29 billion].
 y
Recurring PBT excluding fair value gains on IP amounted to Rs.3.27 
billion during 2020/21 [2019/20: Rs.2.76 billion].
Balance Sheet Indicators
Rs.million
2020/21
2019/20
%
Debt
Information Technology 
61
7
806
Plantation Services
304
675
(55)
Other
47,197
2,023
2,233
Total
47,562
2,705
1,658
 y
Borrowings of the Holding Company increased during the year, given 
the debt drawdown pertaining to the USD 175 million long-term 
loan facility with IFC and an increase in LKR borrowings in line with 
the planned funding strategy of the Company. It is noted that the 
drawdown of the IFC facility had no impact on net debt since the 
cash balance was also retained at the Holding Company level.
 y
The increase in debt of the Information Technology sector is 
attributable to an increase in bank overdrafts to manage working 
capital requirements.
 y
The Plantation Services sector recorded a notable decline in debt as 
a result of a decrease in bank overdrafts at John Keells PLC given the 
improvement in operational performance.

131
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
Energy and Emissions 
Relevance: Financial, regulatory and brand reputation implications
Targets and initiatives during the year:
Energy efficiency
Renewable energy and carbon footprint reduction
 y
Thermal and electrical energy conservation initiatives in all 7 
TSF factories resulted in a savings of 282,378 kWh. 
 y
Reduction in energy consumption through replacement of 
existing fluorescent lamps with LED lighting on an ongoing 
basis at TSF.
 y
Monitored the entire tea manufacturing process by electrical 
submetering, where relevant bottlenecks were identified. 
 y
Conducted awareness sessions on electricity and fuelwood 
savings at all 7 tea factories. 
 y
Tests were carried out to optimise electricity consumption of 
the withering process at TSF. 
 y
ISO 50001:2018 Energy Management System Corporate 
Certification processes continued to be in effect in 7 TSF 
factories. 
 y
~6.1million kWh of renewable energy utilised through the 
generation of solar power by JKW and utilisation of biomass  
at TSF. 
 y
Distribution of 30 kumbuk saplings to leaf suppliers and 
communities surrounding Neluwa, under the 'Adopt a Tree' 
Project.
Material topics and focus areas are as follows:
Waste and Effluent Management
Relevance: Regulatory and brand reputation implications
Targets and initiatives during the year:
Waste management and effluent discharge
 y
Ensuring disposal of all wastewater from factories and biomass 
combustion are in accordance with Environmental Protection 
License (EPL) requirements.
 y
Practicing responsible e-waste disposal through certified 
disposal partners in accordance with the Group's e-waste policy.
 y
Reduction in paper usage and recycling of paper through a 
certified recycler.
 y
Wood ash generated through the use of biomass is used as 
landfill. 
Carbon Footprint (MT)
2019/20
3,012
16%
2,543
2020/21
Waste Disposed (Kg)
2019/20
168,133
8%
180,887
2020/21
Note: Waste generated excludes Information Technology and Other sectors as it is not 
considered material.
Carbon footprint scope 1 and 2 per operational intensity factor
2020/21
2019/20
TSF PLC CO2 (kg per kg of tea produced)
0.56 
 0.64 
JK PLC & JKW CO2 (kg per sq.ft. of floor area)
1.0 
1.3
Carbon Footprint (MT)
 174
 2,183 
 186 
Information Technology
Plantation Services
Other
As a service-oriented industry, emphasis is placed on effective 
management of Human Capital, through continuous career 
development and investments aimed at enhancing the skill sets of 
employees. 
The IT sector regularly invests in professional training and development 
of its existing employees, whilst working in collaboration with 
universities and educational institutions to attract talent and create a 
pipeline of top quality employees in the long-term.  
The IT sector also focuses on providing regular training and creating a 
safe work environment with travel arrangements made to ensure safe 
commute for employees, where applicable. TSF factories continue to 
monitor working conditions and adhere to relevant health and safety 
certifications.
During the year under review, the businesses operated within the 
COVID-19 guidelines, whilst also providing certain staff categories the 
option to 'work from home' along with necessary facilities. Further, 
workplace safety such as sanitation practices were implemented whilst 
creating awareness and adhering to health and safety conditions within 
regulatory guidelines. 
Human Capital 

132   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
OTHER, INCLUDING INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND PLANTATION SERVICES
Training (Hours)
2019/20
11,403
49%
5,795
2020/21
Health and Safety
Relevance: Labour-intensive operations require focus to be placed 
on occupational health and safety. HR related risks directly affect 
brand reputation and employee well-being and have a direct 
impact on the long-term sustainability of the business
Targets and initiatives during the year:
Health and safety 
 y
Upgrade of the OHSAS 18001:2007 standard to ISO 45001:2018 
standard involving hazard and risk assessment associated 
with tea manufacturing processes resulted in a reduction in 
accidents and lost days.
 y
Continual improvement in food safety, product, and hygiene 
quality, with zero quality claims.
 y
Upgrade of the ISO 22000:2005 standard to ISO 22000:2018 
standard for 6 factories. 
 y
Zero injuries were recorded during the year under review.
COVID-19 response
 y
Standard operating procedures and business continuity plans 
were developed to mitigate the impact of the COVID-19 
pandemic.
 y
Facilities to 'work from home' were arranged for employees.
 y
A series of trainings covering 'work from home' during the 
pandemic were conducted for 3 rural BPO units at Infomate. 
 y
Distribution of personal protective equipment (PPE) to a 
hospital in the Galle District to strengthen the safety of 
healthcare workers. 
 y
Conducted awareness sessions for employees on health and 
safety guidelines in tandem with regular PCR testing.
 y
Increased precautionary methods during tea processing to 
avoid any potential risk of contamination. 
Talent Management 
Relevance: Training and development directly affects brand 
reputation and employee well-being whilst hiring, retaining, 
motivating, and enhancing skills of employees
Targets and initiatives during the year:
Training and development
 y
Training on online business communication etiquette and 
home user device security sessions were conducted for 
employees at Infomate.
 y
Staff training was provided on the ISO 27001:13 standard on 
information security. 
 y
Internships were provided to graduates, through the 
collaborations between JKIT and higher education institutes. 
Number of Employees 
543
514
139
Information Technology
Plantation Services
Other
The industry group paid particular attention 
to workplace safety amidst the pandemic, 
implementing sanitation practices and creating 
staff awareness.
Material topics and focus areas are as follows:
Distribution of personal protective equipment (PPE) to a hospital in the Galle District.

133
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
The industry group places emphasis on social responsibility and focuses 
on conducting operations which are beneficial for both the business 
and the community. For the Plantation Services sector, it is vital to build 
trust and mutually beneficial relationships between stakeholders as 
these communities are an integral part of its supply chain. CSR activities, 
which assist the sector in fostering such relationships, are conducted at a 
business level as well as through John Keells Foundation (JKF). 
The IT sector continued to engage with rural communities to promote 
IT literacy, providing the opportunity for youth to step into alternative 
livelihoods by offering job opportunities at BPOs. Such initiatives aid 
the businesses in maintaining and expanding operations by creating a 
strong recruitment pipeline and also yield economic and social benefits, 
such as improved employability and sustainable income opportunities 
for the youth.  
Given below are the significant suppliers in the Plantation Services and 
IT sectors. Assessments for key suppliers are conducted for any negative 
impacts on environment, labour, and human rights aspects.  
SIGNIFICANT SUPPLIERS - INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SECTOR 
AND OTHER 
 y
Outsourced operational functions
 y
Outsourced support staff
 y
Janitors and security
 y
Transportation providers 
SIGNIFICANT SUPPLIERS - PLANTATION SERVICES SECTOR
 y
Tea smallholder farmers 
 y
Tea plantations
Social and Relationship Capital 
Supply Chain Management and Community Engagement
Relevance: Supplier and community engagements and 
assessments mitigate operational and reputational risks, building 
sustainable relationships, sharing knowledge and best practices
Targets and initiatives during the year:
Community and Value Chain Engagement
 y
Aligning to the requirements of the Rainforest Alliance 
certification by enhancing and promoting sustainable 
agriculture in 2,638 green leaf suppliers. 
 y
Commenced the 8th phase of TSF's tea replanting project 
by replanting tea in unproductive tea lands of 22 green leaf 
suppliers, which is aimed at enhancing supplier livelihoods and 
strengthening the supplier base.
 y
Initiatives by TSF aimed at supporting frontline workers and 
communities during the COVID-19 outbreak:
 y
Disinfection of the Hiniduma base hospital and 5 schools, 
benefiting over 2,400 persons.
 y
Distribution of PPE among 30 Public Health Inspectors and 
doctors.
 y
Awareness programme on controlling the spread of 
COVID-19 and the distribution of 150 masks. 
 y
Other awareness programmes, campaigns and workshops 
conducted by TSF: 
 y
Dengue prevention awareness programme benefiting 87 
persons. 
 y
Free health check-ups benefiting 19 cataract patients. 
 y
Awareness on disaster preparedness for 100 community 
members and suppliers. 
 y
Blood donation camp with the participation of 68 
community members and suppliers. 
 y
Supported 11 cataract operations in collaboration with 
Lion's Eye Hospital, Panadura under JKF's Vision Project. 
 y
43 high-performing school children in Neluwa were 
awarded scholarships under JKF's English Language 
Scholarship Programme to the next tier of the programme.
 y
Infomate, in collaboration with JKF and the Foundation for 
Advancing Rural Opportunity (FARO), continued its long-term 
collaboration in creating sustainable income opportunities 
by outsourcing some of the Group's invoicing functions to 
satellite BPO units owned and operated by the associates 
themselves. During the reporting period, 32 youth in 
Mahavilachchiya, Seenigama and Jaffna benefited from this 
initiative. The Seenigama BPO marked its 10th year in operation. 
Material topics and focus areas are as follows:
Distribution of saplings to the community.

134   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
OUTLOOK
The section that ensues entails a discussion of the Group's 
approach to managing the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, 
industry-specific strategy in this light and the outlook beyond 
the pandemic, in dealing with the 'new normal'.
MACROECONOMIC OUTLOOK
Global Context
The International Monetary Fund (IMF) predicts a strong recovery in the global economy with 
economic activity projected to increase by 6.0 per cent in CY2021 and 4.4 per cent in CY2022. 
Growth is projected on the back of the rapid development of multiple COVID-19 vaccines that can 
reduce the severity of infections, unprecedented fiscal support and an accommodative monetary 
policy response from Governments and Central Banks coupled with the quick adaptation to the 'new 
normal' worldwide. Downside risks to the outlook include potential resurgences of the pandemic as 
seen in countries within the region where vaccination roll outs were relatively slow, adverse financial 
markets, substantial supply chain disruptions and geopolitical risks, amongst others.  
Source: International Monetary Fund World Economic Outlook - April 2021
SRI LANKAN CONTEXT
The Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL) expects the Sri Lankan economy to rebound in CY2021 aided 
by the growth-oriented policy agenda of the Government and the accommodative monetary and 
fiscal policy stance. The rebound in the global economy is also expected to have spill-over effects 
on the economy given strong external demand which should facilitate strong export earnings, 
increase foreign inflows in light of better worker remittances, strengthen prospects for foreign 
direct investments depending on Government policies and portfolio investments as seen in other 
markets, should there be greater stability and visibility on the domestic macroeconomic front. 
The economy is also expected to reap the benefits of the fiscal stimuli provided in CY2020 through 
increased investment capacity and improving household spending. The prevailing low interest rate 
regime and the resultant low cost of capital is also expected to spearhead private sector growth. 
The rating downgrade of the sovereign credit rating has heightened concerns on the country's 
ability to meet its external debt repayment obligations amidst an increasing debt-to-GDP ratio. 
The CBSL has, however, reiterated its commitment to fulfilling the obligations of the country, 
which was evident with the repayment of the USD 1 billion sovereign bond in October 2020. The 
credit downgrade has nevertheless exacerbated pressure on external financing and the currency. 
Continued spending on healthcare and financial support for the local economy in light of the 
recent COVID-19 outbreak will result in a wider fiscal deficit in the immediate-term. In tandem, the 
Sri Lankan Rupee is likely to continue facing pressure, although ongoing import control measures 
will help partially mitigate this impact.
IMF Growth Projections (Baseline Scenario)
IMF Growth Projections (Baseline Scenario)
Global
Economy
Global
Economy
Advanced
Economies
Advanced
Economies
Emerging Markets and
Developing Economies
Emerging Markets and
Developing Economies
Emerging and
Developing Asia
Emerging and
Developing Asia
(%)
(%)
(3.3)
(4.7)
6.0
5.1
4.4
3.6
(2.2)
(1.0)
8.6
6.0
6.7
5.0
(6)
(4)
(2)
0
2
4
6
8
10
CY20
CY21
CY22
CY20
CY21
CY22
CY20
CY21
CY22
CY20
CY21
CY22
Looking beyond these short-term challenges, 
the underlying prospects for the economy are 
positive with growth expected to be driven 
by prospects for higher exports, expansion 
of the services sectors and the potential for 
higher foreign inflows, particularly channelled 
towards the Port City Colombo and the 
Industrial Zone projects. The revival of the 
tourism sector in line with the 'new normal' 
will also be a key driver of economic growth 
considering the 'pent-up' demand that is 
evident even at this stage for leisure travel.
Whilst there will be short-term challenges 
given the current situation as outlined above, 
the Group remains confident that Sri Lanka's 
growth prospects in the medium to long-term 
remain positive, as outlined in the ensuing 
Industry Group Strategy and Outlook section.
COVID-19 Developments in Sri Lanka
The COVID-19 pandemic was relatively well 
contained in Sri Lanka in CY2020, where 
the outbreak of clusters was proactively 
identified and managed by the Government 
and health authorities, which resulted in a 
strong recovery in consumer sentiment and 
a resumption of business activity towards 
the end of the financial year. However, 
comparatively, the number of cases has 
risen sharply from late April 2021 onwards 
as the country is witnessing an outbreak of 
a third wave of cases. The authorities have 
opted to control the outbreak through a 
series of initiatives including more stringent 
health and safety guidelines and where 
deemed necessary, isolation of areas deemed 
as 'high-risk' to ensure such clusters are 
contained. In furtherance of this, island-wide 
travel restrictions have also been imposed 
during select periods. While it is too early to 
ascertain the full scale of this outbreak, the 
current trend of daily positive cases indicate a 
higher possibility of community transmission 
than seen in CY2020, particularly given the 
detection of more infectious variants of the 
coronavirus.  

135
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
Source: IHS Markit
 y
China's consumer market noted an encouraging recovery from the downturn triggered by the 
COVID-19 pandemic. 
 y
China recorded a 6.5 per cent growth in the fourth quarter of CY2020. Of this, ~40 per cent 
stemmed from final consumption. 
 y
Although this remains below the 60 per cent three-year average prior to the COVID-19 
pandemic, during which quarterly GDP averaged 6.6 per cent, it marks an exceptional rebound 
considering the depth of consumer market crash in the first half of CY2020.
Looking beyond these  
short-term challenges, the 
underlying prospects for the 
economy are positive with 
growth expected to be driven 
by prospects for higher exports, 
expansion of the services 
sectors and the potential for 
higher foreign inflows. 
Recovey in China post COVID-19: Contribution to China’s year-on-year real GDP growth
Recovey in China post COVID-19: Contribution to China’s year-on-year real GDP growth
(%)
(%)
5.1
(8)
(6)
(4)
(2)
0
2
4
6
8
CY20 Q4
CY20 Q3
CY20 Q2
CY20 Q1
(4.3)
4.9
(2.3)
1.4
2.6
2.5
1.4
2.2
1.3
0.6
(1.4)
(1.1)
Final Consumption
Gross Capital Formulation
Net Exports
As of the date of this Report, a stringent set of 
COVID-19 guidelines continue to be in effect 
whereby restrictions are placed on public 
gatherings, operating capacities of shops and 
retail outlets, amongst others. Although the 
country's borders were opened for tourists 
in January 2021, this was subsequently 
tightened in May 2021 with certain restrictions 
placed on arrivals once again along with 
updated quarantine criteria. As of the date 
of this Report, all passenger arrivals to Sri 
Lanka are suspended till 31 May 2021. As a 
part of its health response, the Government 
has reported that hospital capacity has been 
increased whilst more hotels have also been 
turned into intermediate care centres to treat 
asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic cases.  
Sri Lanka commenced the COVID-19 
vaccination programme in late January 2021, 
obtaining consignments of the Oxford-
AstraZeneca vaccine from India under 
the COVAX programme. However, given 
the ongoing COVID-19 crisis in India and 
resultant supply disruptions, the vaccination 
programme on the Oxford-AstraZeneca front 
has been curtailed. Whilst ~1 million people 
were inoculated with the first dose of this 
vaccine, the administering of the second 
dose is currently underway only for front 
line workers due to supply limitations. Sri 
Lanka also commenced administering the 
Sinopharm vaccine and the Sputnik V vaccine 
from mid-May 2021. The country also has 
plans to purchase doses of the Pfizer-BioNTech 
vaccine by July 2021. The Government 
has committed to scale up the roll out of 
vaccinations and this should positively 
impact recovery once a critical mass of the 
population, particularly in high-risk areas, are 
covered, as witnessed in other countries.
As evident from the ensuing graph, higher 
vaccination roll outs are expected to 
accelerate economic growth.
World GDP (Index: 2020 Q1=100)
World GDP (Index: 2020 Q1=100)
115
110
105
100
95
90
2020 Q1
2020 Q2
2020 Q3
2020 Q4
2021 Q1
2021 Q2
2021 Q3
2021 Q4
2022 Q1
2022 Q2
2022 Q3
2022 Q4
2023 Q1
2023 Q2
2023 Q3
2023 Q4
Central
Upside
Downside
Source: Quarterly Economic Outlook - March 2021, KPMG
 y
Central Forecast – Vaccine roll out expected to permit gradual re-opening across countries in CY2021, 
with international travel commencing from Q2 CY2021.
 y
Upside Forecast – Global vaccination programme is accelerated, both in terms of coverage and speed, 
enabling all countries to open international borders to travellers from early-CY2022.
 y
Downside Forecast – Failure to deliver a comprehensive and timely vaccine programme to low- and 
lower-middle-income countries (LMICs), which prevents a widespread opening of the global economy 
before CY2022. LMICs will maintain current level of restrictions on international travel, and restrictions 
on mobility will remain in place in countries with limited access to vaccines until the end of CY2021, 
rather than easing over the course of CY2021.
KPMG envisages considerable upside benefits to the world economy from a faster, wider 
vaccine roll out than the current supply trajectory.
McKinsey & Company envisages that an effective vaccine roll out is key to contain the impacts of 
the pandemic and restore consumer demand to pre-pandemic levels, fuelled by rising consumer 
confidence, pent-up demand, and accumulated savings. China's robust consumer spending 
recovery after gaining control of the COVID-19 virus outbreak is another reason for optimism for 
most countries. 
HIGHER VACCINATION ROLL OUTS ARE 
EXPECTED TO ACCELERATE ECONOMIC GROWTH

136   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
The Group has continued to 
invest despite unprecedented 
events such as the Easter 
Sunday terror attacks in 
Sri Lanka in April 2019 and 
the COVID-19 pandemic in 
CY2020, demonstrating the 
Group's 'resilience in investing'.
OUTLOOK
GROUP OUTLOOK
The recent outbreak of COVID-19 cases in Sri 
Lanka has resulted in short-term uncertainty in 
the market, although the business impact, at this 
juncture, for most Group businesses excluding 
Leisure is not as significant as witnessed with 
the previous outbreaks and isolation measures. 
Whilst it is premature to ascertain the scale of the 
restrictions that may follow due to this outbreak, 
the Group remains positive of the underlying 
fundamentals of the industry groups in which 
it operates and expects a similar recovery to 
the traction observed in the second and fourth 
quarters of 2020/21; a sustained recovery can 
be expected once the stringent isolation and 
healthcare measures are eased.
Although business performance was 
significantly impacted and extremely 
challenging on account of the stringent 
lockdown measures from March till mid-
May in 2020, the easing of restrictions in 
movement thereafter aided a resumption 
of activity. Similarly, although the 
outbreak of a cluster in early October 
2020, which prompted isolation measures 
in select areas during the month, caused 
a slowdown in business activity and 
dampened consumer sentiment, the 
impact of the isolation measures on 
business was notably less severe than 
originally witnessed during the lockdown 
which was imposed in the first quarter 
of 2020/21 as consumers adapted to the 
health and safety guidelines issued by 
the authorities as the year progressed. 
This was particularly evident in the 
performance in the fourth quarter where 
business activity and movement of 
consumers was largely normal, despite 
the higher number of cases reported 
during this period. 
LOOKING BACK AT RECOVERY 
TRENDS IN 2020/21
Whilst the ongoing outbreak of COVID-19 cases in the country is expected to create disruptions, 
given the prior ramp up of business capabilities to address such similar disruptions and the 'new 
normal', as detailed in the ensuing section, the Group envisages the impact on business to be 
less pronounced. Better insights on consumer behaviour and business momentum are expected 
to aid the business in navigating through the ongoing outbreak, in contrast to 2020/21, where 
businesses were faced with such unprecedented challenges for the first time. 
It is pertinent to note that the degree of impact and uncertainty on businesses will be divergent. 
The impact on businesses such as Supermarkets, where consumer baskets comprise of household 
necessities, personal and other household care items, is more insulated in comparison to an 
industry group such as Leisure. As such, for greater clarity, the envisaged impact of the ongoing 
pandemic on each of the industry groups is discussed in detail in the ensuing section. 
As noted earlier, whilst it is premature to ascertain the overall impact of the situation in the country 
as at the date of this Report, in any event, the business impact due to the varying levels of isolation 
measures are known, and the recovery trajectory also demonstrated, as discussed in this Report. 
As such, the discussion on the Outlook will place a greater emphasis on the medium to long-term 
strategy of the Group and each of its businesses. 
Realisation of Benefits from the Group's Recent Investments 
As discussed in previous Annual Reports, the Group has been in a capital expenditure cycle as it 
has deployed a significant quantum of cash across its businesses to fund the investment pipeline 
to ensure a transformative growth in the years ahead. The Group has continued to invest despite 
unprecedented events such as the Easter Sunday terror attacks in Sri Lanka in April 2019 and the 
COVID-19 pandemic in CY2020, demonstrating the Group's 'resilience in investing'.
Whilst the iconic 'Cinnamon Life' project is the most significant of such investments, the Group 
has made other meaningful investments in its other businesses as well – the number of outlets 
in the Supermarket business has doubled to over 120 outlets in the last three years, post the roll 
out of the new brand identity and related initiatives in end-CY2017 coupled with development of 
platforms to transform operational efficiencies. Significant capacity and capability expansion was 
also evident in the Frozen Confectionery business with the investment in the impulse ice cream 
factory. The Group has also invested in enhancing its efficiencies and capability in businesses such 
as the Insurance business. Similarly, the Group invested in refurbishing and upgrading its three 
Maldivian hotels, including the acquisition of a long-term lease on a new hotel, 'Cinnamon Velifushi 
Maldives' and also opened 'Cinnamon Bentota Beach' in Sri Lanka. With these developments, the 
full complement of the Group's hotels was available for operations just prior to the onset of the 
pandemic – now the Group is poised to realise this benefit no sooner global tourism recovers. 
While such investments had short-term impacts on performance over the last couple of years 
on account of related expenses and disruptions, the longer-term benefits of some of these 
investments are now translating to significant performance impact in the relevant businesses, 
which are not fully visible in the reported results due to the offsetting impacts on account of 
disruptions across two consecutive years given the unprecedented events as described before. 
As expected, particularly the investment in 'Cinnamon Life', which had a prolonged gestation 
period, has exerted pressure on return on capital employed. However, with 'Cinnamon Life' 
nearing completion, the Group is now poised to realise the benefits from the commencement of 
operations from the ensuing year onwards. This includes the revenue and profit recognition from 
the handover of the residential units in the 'Cinnamon Life' project which will commence from the 
first quarter of 2021/22 onwards. 
Investments going forward will include the West Container Terminal (WCT) in the Port of Colombo 
(POC) in partnership with the Adani Group in India. This investment will ensure continued long-
term exposure to the ports business in the country which augers well for the future of the Group. 
The Group's expected investment in the project is ~USD 70-80 million, subject to finalisation of 
project costs and other structuring arrangements, including the proportion of leverage. 
Further details on the Group's liquidity and funding position can be found in the Capital Management Review 
section of this Report - page 38 

137
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
The outbreaks in CY2020 in 
Sri Lanka and the subsequent 
recovery post easing of 
restrictions, have imparted 
learnings and garnered 
experience for the Group 
in better navigating the 
ongoing and potential 
constraints. The lockdowns 
and various measures 
imposed last year offered 
insights to business resilience 
through investments in 
technology, processes and 
also highlighted the need to 
manage our people in an agile 
work environment.
The Supermarket business will commence operations of its state-of-the-art distribution centre, 
which will result in significant efficiencies and scale for the future, while continuing with its outlet 
expansion which will be the primary source of capital expenditure. Depending on volume growth, 
capacity enhancements at the Beverage business will be considered in the medium-term while 
additions to enhance manufacturing capability in the ice cream factory will also be evaluated in 
line with the evolution of the portfolio of products and business growth. The Group will continue 
to focus on the monetisation of its extensive land bank and as such, does not foresee deployment 
of significant capital in the property business.  
Refer industry-specific outlook for further details - page 138 
Pandemic Response - Processes and Frameworks Already Institutionalised 
The outbreaks in CY2020 in Sri Lanka and the subsequent recovery post easing of restrictions, have 
imparted learnings and garnered experience for the Group in better navigating the ongoing and 
potential constraints. The lockdowns and various measures imposed last year offered insights to 
business resilience through investments in technology, processes and also highlighted the need 
to manage our people in an agile work environment. Careful planning and oversight to enable 
Group businesses to adapt as the situation evolves, whilst managing liquidity and financing is 
of pivotal importance and the Group will continue to capitalise on such opportunities to ensure 
continued resilience through the recent outbreak. Additionally, better clarity on consumer and 
market behaviour during periods of restrictions and thereafter will better equip Group businesses 
in responding to these evolving preferences. 
As per McKinsey & Company, the shift to digital persists across countries and categories as 
consumers in most parts of the world keep low out-of-home engagement. Food and household 
categories have seen an average of over 30 per cent growth in its online customer base across 
countries. Whilst the Group has not witnessed trends to this degree in its businesses, it is 
cognisant of the fact that use of digital platforms during periods of more severe outbreaks is more 
pronounced and can be a catalyst for more lasting conversion to such alternate channels.  
Initiatives Aimed at Managing the Group Cash and Liquidity Position
Further to the various measures undertaken in the previous year to ensure a sustainable and agile 
operating model, with a focused view on cash management and liquidity, Group business will 
continue to:
 y
Use weekly dashboards, which cover financial and non-financial KPIs, including monitoring of 
weekly cash and collections targets.
 y
Leverage on 'cash war rooms' and 'spend control towers' to critically review each and every 
spend item, prioritise payments, and impose clear reporting metrics.
 y
Effect stringent expense control measures, subject to further review depending on the macro 
and operating environment.
While the current liquidity position of the Group is sufficient to manage current and future 
commitments as planned, the Group will continue to take proactive steps with the view to 
maintaining a strong balance sheet, particularly considering the volatile macroeconomic 
environment and continued uncertainty due to the ongoing pandemic. As planned at the outset, 
the back-ended final payment of the syndicated loan of 'Cinnamon Life' falls due in 2022/23 and 
the Group is already in discussion to refinance a component of this loan as per its funding strategy 
whilst utilising the proceeds from the sales of the apartments and cash reserves to settle part of 
the loan.  
Emphasis on the Group's Advanced 
Analytics and Transformation Journey
OCTAVE - the Data and Advanced Analytics 
Centre of Excellence of the Group has made 
remarkable progress and is expected to 
continue to lay the platform for the Group's 
advanced analytics transformation journey. 
Further to the initial pilots of select use cases in 
Retail and Financial Services, which indicated 
strong signs of significant value that can be 
unlocked from translating advanced analytics 
insights into front line business interventions, 
and the roll out of the aforementioned use 
cases which has yielded promising results and 
indicate anticipated benefits to the businesses 
will be met, the Group will continue to 
extend its efforts to other Group businesses, 
commencing from the Consumer Foods 
industry group. 
The Group will also continue to institutionalise 
Data Governance practices across Group 
businesses in line with or surpassing the 
proposed legislative framework in the 
country. OCTAVE will continue to ramp up 
the development of use cases independently 
which is aimed at developing internal 
capability towards sustaining an advanced 
analytics practice in the Group. 

138   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
OUTLOOK
INDUSTRY GROUP STRATEGY AND 
OUTLOOK
  Transportation
Immediate to Short-Term
The World Trade Organisation (WTO) envisages 
the volume of world merchandising trade to 
increase by 8.0 per cent in CY2021, against 
the 5.3 per cent contraction witnessed in 
CY2020. The industry is witnessing short-
term disruptions to demand, on the back of 
the COVID-19 crisis in India, as several ports 
globally, including Singapore, have barred the 
entry of vessels which have called at South 
Asian ports, including in Sri Lanka. While it is 
premature to assess the continued impact 
of the recent developments in India, market 
expectations are that it is temporary and that 
trade volumes will remain resilient.  
The reduction in regional trade activity and 
vessel movement in the immediate-term, 
may result in some volatility in the Bunkering 
business. The business will continue to 
proactively manage its costs, productivity 
and inventory in order to ensure minimal 
disruption from the current situation, whilst 
also engaging with its customers. 
The Logistics business, John Keells Logistics 
(JKLL), is expected to remain resilient in the 
face of increased warehousing demand for 
supplies and the delivery of online purchases 
during periods of uncertainty, as witnessed 
during the previous lockdown. Similar to 
the reconfiguration of a distribution centre 
to an online fulfilment centre within a short 
span of 3 days to cater to the growing needs 
for essential goods, JKLL will continue to 
evaluate prospects to leverage on cross 
business opportunities, thereby ensuring a 
seamless supply chain for all its stakeholders. 
Similar to previous outbreaks, key challenges 
faced by the business would be managing its 
distribution and delivery within the policies 
and restrictions stipulated by the Government 
and ensuring the health and safety of all its 
stakeholders. The business will leverage on its 
learnings and experiences from the outbreaks 
in 2020/21 to manage the overall impact on 
business and ensure a seamless operating 
model.
The adverse impact on the Airline businesses is expected to continue on the back of reduced 
tourist arrivals and passenger traffic, travel restrictions and dampened consumer sentiment.
The industry group will continue to strengthen the health and safety measures and protocols in 
place to ensure the safety of all employees and to reduce the risk of contraction. Most employees 
in the Ports business are already fully vaccinated, given the prioritisation of the ports industry as an 
essential service by the Government. Given these circumstances, it is unlikely that there will be a 
serious outbreak of cases disrupting operations at the POC.    
Medium to Long-Term (Beyond COVID-19)
The revival of global trade in the medium to long-term on the back of economic recovery, 
improvements in consumption, and investments in infrastructure will augur well for Sri Lanka, 
particularly given its strategic location on key shipping routes.
Ports and Shipping
The recovery of domestic import volumes in line with the envisaged recovery of the domestic 
economy coupled with growth in regional and global trade in the medium-term augurs well for 
the sector. The continued opportunity to further establish Colombo as a regional transshipment 
hub has been further strengthened, post the emergence of the pandemic, as shipping lines have 
demonstrated a preference to have less direct services and adopt a more 'hub and spoke' model. 
This is further reinforced by the type of order book of many of the leading shipping lines which are 
focused on larger container ships which are more likely to call at transshipment hubs.
Investments towards increasing the capacity in the POC through the development of the East 
Container Terminal (ECT) and WCT, will bode well for the country, ensuring the competitiveness 
of the POC in the region – especially in light of increasing capacity enhancements in Indian 
ports. Although ECT is partially operational at present, the full development of the ECT will be 
implemented by the Sri Lanka Ports Authority (SLPA) in February 2021, with the first phase of 
the project featuring a 450 metre berth while an additional 600 metres will be added in the 
second phase. WCT, as outlined above, a part of the proposed Colombo Port South Harbour 
Development Project, will encompass a deep-water terminal with an alongside depth of 20 metres 
and annual capacity of ~3 million TEUs. The long-term aspirations of the SLPA, which include the 
development of a new Colombo North Port, is encouraging and expected to spearhead the thrust 
to establish Colombo as a leading transshipment hub in the region in terms of scale, providing 
scope for sustainable growth for the sector. The investment in WCT will ensure continued long-
term exposure to the ports business in the country, once it materialises. The Group expects to 
commence construction of the WCT in early CY2022, subject to fulfilling criteria as stipulated in 
the LOI, with part of the terminal slated to be operational in ~24 months, and the remainder within 
a further period of no later than 24 months. The Group's expected investment in the project is 
in the region of USD 70-80 million, subject to finalisation of project costs and other structuring 
arrangements, including the proportion of leverage. This investment will be staggered over the 
construction period. 
SOUTH HARBOUR 
DEVELOPMENT
CURRENT 
HARBOUR
SAGT
East 
Terminal
West 
Terminal
South Terminal
JCT
CICT
WCT
ECT
Colombo South Harbour Development Project

139
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
Investments towards 
increasing the capacity 
in the Port of Colombo 
through the development 
of the East Container 
Terminal and West Container 
Terminal, will bode well for 
the country, ensuring the 
competitiveness of the port 
in the region.
 Consumer Foods
Immediate to Short-Term
As seen in the analysis on the quarterly 
performance, the Beverages, Frozen 
Confectionery and Convenience Foods 
businesses have demonstrated a resilient 
performance as consumers adapted to the 
health and safety guidelines issued by the 
authorities as the year progressed. This was 
particularly evident in the performance in the 
fourth quarter where business activity and 
movement of consumers was largely normal, 
despite the relatively higher number of cases 
during the period. This recovery momentum 
witnessed from December 2020 onwards, 
translated to volumes across the Beverages, 
Frozen Confectionery and Convenience 
Foods businesses exceeding expectations, 
including in April 2021. The recent outbreak 
and escalation in COVID-19 cases across 
the country and the resultant isolation of 
'high-risk' areas may temporarily hamper this 
recovery momentum, particularly if the current 
situation escalates further. However, looking 
beyond these immediate impacts, similar to 
the traction observed in the second and fourth 
quarters of 2020/21, a sustained recovery in 
volumes can be expected once the stringent 
isolation and healthcare measures are eased. 
In the current backdrop in particular, 
managing the safety and health of staff and 
key stakeholders remains pivotal and a key 
challenge to the businesses. The businesses 
will continue to strengthen the health and 
safety measures and protocols in place 
to ensure the safety of all employees and 
to reduce the risk of contraction at the 
workplace. As outlined above, cash flow and 
cost management initiatives will remain a 
priority throughout the ensuing year. 
The industry group will leverage on its 
learnings and experiences from the outbreaks 
in 2020/21 to manage the overall impact on 
business and to ensure a seamless operating 
model. The business will further augment its 
processes to thrive in the 'new normal' and 
continue to place emphasis on exploring 
business opportunities in emerging online 
and delivery channels through both owned 
and third-party e-commerce platforms, 
given continually evolving consumer trends. 
Emphasis will also be placed on maintaining 
rigorous engagement with its suppliers and 
distributors to ensure a seamless supply chain, 
Although the increase in capacity in the 
POC in the medium-term will result in an 
impact on volumes for the existing terminal 
operators in the short-term, as seen with the 
entry of Colombo International Container 
Terminals (CICT), the capacity led growth 
will ensure demand ramps up significantly, 
given the factors mentioned previously. 
South Asia Gateway Terminals (SAGT) will 
continue to explore opportunities in line with 
the overall enhancements to the POC whilst 
working to improve terminal productivity and 
efficiency through strategic initiatives and 
investments. Special emphasis will be placed 
on consolidating its operations, providing high 
value-added and integrated services whilst 
increasing SAGT's share of higher yielding 
domestic volumes with a view of achieving 
a more balanced mix of transshipment to 
domestic volumes, in order to optimise 
profitability.
Bunkering
Prospects for bunkering services is promising 
in the medium-term, driven by the envisaged 
increase in regional trade activity and demand 
generated from ongoing investments in the 
POC, Southern and Eastern Ports. The Port 
of Hambantota (POH) is also expected to aid 
overall growth in volumes given increased 
capacity and infrastructure in the country. 
Growth in regional business activity, particularly 
in the SAARC (South Asian Association for 
Regional Cooperation) region is also expected 
to positively impact the business.
The primary challenge to the bunkering 
market in Sri Lanka was the limited availability 
of bonded tank space which hampered 
the destination's regional competitiveness 
and the ability to meet increasing demand. 
With the commencement of bunkering 
operations at the POH with a total capacity 
of ~60,000 MT and the envisaged expansion 
in the capacity in Colombo via the proposed 
construction of a 3,200 MT storage tank by 
Jaya Container Terminal (JCT), the industry 
will witness an increase in the total storage 
available for bunker fuel, enabling industry 
players to import larger parcels of bunker 
fuel and to supply bunker fuel at more 
competitive prices in line with regional ports. 
Improved competitiveness is expected to 
drive bunker volumes in the industry. In order 
to capitalise on this opportunity, the business 
will continue to focus on further consolidating 
its own storage and delivery capacity, and 
procurement processes in line with market 
conditions. 
Although the industry may experience a shift 
in volumes from the POC to the POH due to 
commencement of operations, the Group is 
of the view that an increase in additional tank 
capacity will aid an improvement in the overall 
bunker market, positively impacting both the 
POC and POH. The business will also continue 
to explore opportunities at the POH.  
Logistics
The potential for palletised third-party logistics 
(3PL) remains promising in the medium to 
long-term with growth expected primarily 
from inbound project cargo operations, fast 
-moving consumer goods (FMCG) and export 
industries. The anticipated growth in regional 
and domestic trading activity, stemming 
from global economic recovery and ongoing 
infrastructure developments in the country, 
indicate significant potential for increasing 
integration into global supply chains and the 
positioning of Sri Lanka as a global trading hub. 
JKLL will endeavour to optimise cost and drive 
operational efficiencies, particularly through 
emphasis on digitisation initiatives. 3PL 
customers are increasingly seeking end-to-
end solutions and in this regard, every effort 
will be made to ensure a complete service 
offering.    
Airlines
Increased trading activity and investment 
towards uplifting the tourism industry, 
as discussed in the Leisure section of this 
write-up, coupled with convenience of faster 
connectivity between cities and Sri Lanka's 
growing popularity as a destination for short 
stays, are expected to contribute towards 
improved performance of the Airline segment 
in the medium to-long-term.

140   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
OUTLOOK
Source: Company analysis
Rapid urbanisation and 
increasing disposable 
income coupled with 
modern lifestyle trends 
have fuelled growth in 
global frozen confectionery 
markets in the recent years.
(CSD per capita consumption in litres)
(CSD per capita consumption in litres)
Sri Lanka
Malaysia
Singapore
Thailand
Philippines
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
10
19
31
39
52
better handle of the working capital cycle 
and reduced credit risk exposure while further 
streamlining the distributor network to ensure 
greater stability and consistency for the future.
Given the resurgence of restrictions in 
movements in selected areas, the bulk/
multipack sizes are expected to continue 
its higher share of the volume mix in the 
short-term, although this does not materially 
alter the profitability margins. On the 
Beverages front, the business also expects 
the temporary shift from glass bottles to 
PET bottles to continue, given health and 
safety considerations. Although the subdued 
performance of the HORECA (hotels, 
restaurants, catering) channel is expected to 
continue in the short-term, this is expected 
to gradually recover in tandem with domestic 
spending and tourism recovery. Despite the 
setbacks in lieu of the COVID-19 pandemic 
hampering the launch, the Convenience 
Foods business will place emphasis on further 
establishing 'Ezy rice' in the market, in line with 
the diversification strategy of the business.
Medium to Long-Term (Beyond COVID-19)
Notwithstanding the immediate to short-
term impacts on demand on account of the 
pandemic, domestic demand conditions 
have remained buoyant and even rebounded 
when activity levels are normalised. This is 
further expected to rebound in the medium-
term in tandem with improving consumer 
confidence and economic activity driven by 
an accommodative monetary policy. 
The penetration of consumer food products in 
Sri Lanka continues to be comparatively low 
in comparison to global and regional peers, 
demonstrating the significant potential in 
these industries. Given the higher penetration 
within urban areas, the Group expects 
growth from the outskirts of the country to 
be a significant contributor to medium to 
long-term growth, despite the lower base. 
The industry group will capitalise on this 
opportunity by investing in its supply chain 
and augmenting its portfolio of offerings in 
line with evolving trends. 
The business will continue to invest in 
its digitisation strategy, particularly in 
furtherance of the Group's advanced analytics 
transformation journey through data driven 
decision-making to glean insights, which is 
expected to optimise production practices, 
deliver productivity and cost savings, and 
identify growth opportunities.
Beverages
Given increased consumer emphasis on 
healthier lifestyles coupled with evolving 
regulations and restrictions surrounding 
calorific sugar content in beverages, the 
business will continue to focus on developing 
its portfolio as the share of the carbonated soft 
drinks (CSD) as a proportion of total beverages 
may proportionately diminish in the long-
term. However, the prospects for the beverage 
industry continue to be promising as these 
health-conscious consumers seek alternate 
beverage options. 
Similar trends are witnessed globally, where 
CSD manufactures worldwide continue to 
engage in reformulation exercises with the aim 
of reducing the sugar content of its products, 
whilst extending the portfolios to include non-
CSD beverages which are healthier and more 
nutritious.
Given changing market dynamics, the 
Beverage business in the medium-term will:
 y
Focus on consolidating its current 
CSD portfolio and discontinuing non-
performing SKUs.
 y
Prioritise the extension of the current non-
CSD range, based on market opportunity.
 y
Manage the composition of the portfolio 
to ensure optimum margins.
 y
Consolidate and stabilise distributor 
networks whilst improving sales force 
efficiency through digital means.
 y
Explore new operating models, different 
marketing channels and alternate methods 
of working, given changing consumer 
behaviour and digitisation trends. 
 y
Implementation of lean initiatives at 
factories.  
Frozen Confectionery
Barring the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, 
rapid urbanisation and increasing disposable 
income coupled with modern lifestyle 
trends have fuelled growth in global frozen 
confectionery markets in the recent years. 
Looking beyond the pandemic, this positive 
growth trajectory is expected to continue.
Ice cream consumption in Sri Lanka at ~3 litres 
is well below global averages, demonstrating 
the significant potential for growth in this 
market. Despite the short-term impact 
on single-serve ice creams on the back of 
an increase in the in-home consumption 
segment, the prospects continue to be 
promising. In line with global and regional 
peers, the business expects a gradual shift 
in the bulk to impulse mix towards impulse 
products, thereby being the primary driver of 
the envisaged increase in per capita ice cream 
consumption in Sri Lanka. The business will 
continue to invest in expanding its distribution 
reach in an optimal manner.
Low consumption patterns and 
penetration reflects potential for growth 
in the CSD market
Per capita packaged beverage consumption 
in Sri Lanka is well below regional and global 
averages highlighting the growth potential 
for the beverages market in the country. As a 
leading player in the beverages market, Ceylon 
Cold Stores PLC (CCS) will leverage on its 
strong brand equity and distribution network 
to capitalise on this opportunity through a 
continuing pipeline of products, as introduced 
over the recent years, catering to the ever-
evolving lifestyles of consumers. Given 
evolving regulations surrounding single-use 
plastics and interest towards environmentally 
friendly packaging, continual emphasis is 
also placed on exploring alternate forms of 
packaging, where feasible. 

141
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
The prospects for the modern trade industry in Sri Lanka 
continue to be promising, given the low penetration of 
modern trade outlets in the country, growth expectations for 
consumer demand and the steady conversion from general 
trade to modern trade driven by demand for better quality, 
convenience and value for money for consumers.
 Retail
Immediate to Short-Term
The ongoing outbreak of COVID-19 cases 
in the country may create disruptions and 
hamper momentum in the short-term given 
the isolation of areas deemed as 'high-risk', 
particularly outlets located in such areas, and 
restriction measures imposed to curtail the 
movement of people. As at the date of this 
Report, although over 90 per cent of outlets 
are open to customers, since others are located 
in areas which have been isolated by the 
Government, operations have been restricted 
to 25 per cent of the capacity as per the safety 
guidelines issued by the health authorities. 
Open outlets have not witnessed a material 
impact to the operations by these restrictions, 
although it may be premature to fully 
understand the impacts. Despite the aforesaid, 
the impact on performance is expected to be 
less pronounced than witnessed when previous 
isolation measures were in place given that the 
business is better equipped to navigate these 
challenges in contrast to the previous outbreaks 
in CY2020. To this end, the business has 
invested and ramped up its capabilities of the 
online shopping platform, 'Keells' and related 
delivery and in-store pick up services, which are 
able to handle over 15,000 online orders per 
day as against 100 online orders prior to the 
outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Consumer demand is expected to continue 
its recovery momentum once the current 
outbreak is overcome, as witnessed post 
the first and third quarters of the year under 
review, despite the increases in cases at 
present. This is further complemented by the 
nature of operations, where the performance 
of the Supermarket business is expected to 
be somewhat insulated given that consumer 
baskets primarily consist of essential goods, 
personal and other daily household items. 
The health and safety of employees, in 
particular frontline workers, suppliers and 
customers remain a key priority and the 
business will continue to roll out health 
and safety procedures within its outlets, in 
order to reduce the spread of the COVID-19 
virus. The business will continue to maintain 
transparent communication with its 
customers, whist also engaging with suppliers 
and other stakeholders to ensure a continually 
functioning supply chain. Emphasis will also 
be placed on cost optimisation and working 
capital management.
70
30
(%)
Bulk
Impluse
92
8
56
44
The bulk:impulse mix of regional markets is highly tilted towards the impulse market, demonstrating
the significant potential for the impulse category in the overall ice cream market of Sri Lanka.
The bulk:impulse mix of regional markets is highly tilted towards the impulse market, demonstrating
the significant potential for the impulse category in the overall ice cream market of Sri Lanka.
Sri Lanka
Sri Lanka
Thailand
Thailand
Malaysia
Malaysia
In line with this shift, the business projects a similar trend for its portfolio in the long-term. The 
state-of-the-art facility in Seethawaka will play a pivotal role in catering to this growth trajectory, 
both in the bulk and impulse segments, in the long run. This facility continues to perform as 
envisaged, aiding innovative new product development, increased operational efficiencies and 
better margins.  
The strategic priorities of the Frozen Confectionery business for the short to medium-term are:
 y
Focus on consolidating its current frozen confectionery portfolio.
 y
Emphasis on digitisation and process improvements.
 y
Explore new operating models, alternative distribution channels and alternate methods of 
working.
 y
Investments in its supply chain.
 y
Implementation of lean initiatives at factories.  
Convenience Foods
The Convenience Foods business will continue to innovate and expand on its portfolio.  
The strategic priorities for the business for the medium-term are: 
 y
Development of product extensions, paving way for the business to increase its market share 
particularly through emphasis on convenient meal options.
 y
Focus on consolidating the dry distribution network and sales force to ensure readiness to cater 
to the envisaged growth in volumes.
 y
Emphasis on growing the modern and general trade channels, particularly the organised small 
and medium entities under general trade thereby increasing footprint.
 y
Focus on further augmenting its portfolio offering.

142   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
Source: Retail and shopper trends in the Asia Pacific, AC Nielsen
The Office Automation 
business remains confident 
of the underlying demand for 
high quality office automation 
solutions and smart mobile 
phones which is expected 
to be driven by increasing 
commercial activity within the 
country and an improvement 
in business sentiment.
OUTLOOK
Modern Trade Density
Modern Trade Density
Population (’000) per store
Population (’000) per store
132
47
30
21.0
7.3
4.7
4.5
3.7
3.6
3.4
3.0
2.5
1.9
0.9
0
30
60
90
120
150
India
Vietnam
Sri Lanka
Philippines
Indonesia
Thailand
Malaysia
Singapore
China
Hong Kong
Australia
New Zealand
Taiwan
Korea
The business has witnessed a change in 
shopping behaviour due to the pandemic 
where the basket value of a generic customer 
has reported a notable increase due to 
consolidation of the shopping occasion 
while the frequency of visits has reduced. 
The business will continue to monitor such 
developments to ensure that the business 
model continually evolves in line with changing 
consumer behaviour, although it is believed 
that behaviour will return to 'normalcy' once 
the effects of the pandemic reduce.  
Medium to Long-Term (Beyond COVID-19)
Supermarkets
The prospects for the modern trade industry 
in Sri Lanka continue to be promising, given 
the low penetration of modern trade outlets 
in the country, growth expectations for 
consumer demand and the steady conversion 
from general trade to modern trade driven 
by demand for better quality, convenience 
and value for money for consumers. The 
Supermarket business is uniquely positioned 
to capitalise on this opportunity by leveraging 
on it its high brand equity.
Source: Company analysis
Prospects for the modern trade industry in  
Sri Lanka is promising, given the low penetration 
of modern trade outlets in the country.
(%)
(%)
Modern Retail Penetration 
Modern Retail Penetration 
Singapore
Malaysia
Hong Kong
Taiwan
Thailand
Sri Lanka
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
40
16
43
48
49
70
Continued focus will be placed on differentiating the shopping experience for its customers 
through its 'fresh' promise, service excellence and quality within 5 activity pillars; product, price, 
place, people and the customer. The business will also focus on continually expanding its footprint 
to capitalise on the envisaged growth of the modern trade industry given its low density and 
penetration levels. 'Brick and mortar' stores are expected to be the key driver of growth going 
forward for the foreseeable future, although online sales will increase its contribution over the 
years. Consumer behaviour suggests an inclination to shop at physical stores despite the effects 
of the pandemic as evident in the patterns witnessed post easing of isolation measures in the 
third quarter; although online sales witnessed a temporary uptick during periods of lockdown and 
uncertainty on the back of COVID-19 restrictions, with orders exceeding 10,000 a day, a reversal 
in trends was evident with the easing of restrictions with direct 'brick and motor' sales noting a 
corresponding increase.  
In this light, the business will continue the expansion of its network, both in urban and suburban 
areas, timing such expansion plans based on the macroeconomic landscape and the maturity of 
these markets. In addition to its standard store format, the business is also rolling out a modular 
store format in pursuing its expansion plans for select areas, to better manage capital expenditure 
and operational costs, until such time these earmarked markets mature by which time the store 
can be expanded to a standard format in a modular manner. The key challenges faced during 
expansion include securing lease of land plots in prime locations which are in conformity with 
brand specifications and staff retention. The business will continue to focus on retaining its labour 
force by augmenting its recruitment processes, empowering these individuals and focusing on the 
employer brand.  
The ongoing construction of the distribution centre (DC) in Kerawalapitiya will augment the 
business's outlet expansion, particularly given its ability to cater to its outlet expansion well 
beyond the medium to long-term. The operation of the new DC is expected to result in significant 
process and operational efficiencies, particularly given the centralisation of almost the entirety of 
the dry and fresh range of the current modern trade offering and also provide better visibility of 
the supply chain. 
Given the significant roll out of stores in the past few years, profitability and margins of the 
Supermarket business were impacted by the funding costs associated with such investment and 
also the relative contribution from new stores. EBITDA margins of new stores are comparatively 
lower than mature stores, given that new outlets typically take 12-16 months to ramp up. Whilst 
the impact of new stores was more pronounced at the outset, since the store count has doubled 
over a period of three years, the business will see normalisation of the impact of new store 
expansion since the base of existing outlets are now proportionately much higher relative to the 
expansion envisaged. Continued emphasis will also be placed on higher private label penetration 
in order to enhance customer choice and drive profitability margins.

143
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
Source: UNWTO March 2021 Tourism Barometer 
Source: China Consumer Report 2021, McKinsey & Company
Ensuring the health and 
safety of all stakeholders, 
particularly the employees 
and guests, continue to be the 
Group's immediate priority. 
The businesses will, therefore, 
ensure that all required social 
distancing protocols and 
health checks are in place as 
advocated by international 
and local regulatory bodies.
 Leisure
Immediate to Short-Term
Global tourism continues to be significantly impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic on the back of 
tightening travel restrictions, particularly in response to new outbreaks and increased travel health 
and safety protocols such as mandatory testing and quarantine requirements. Despite the rapid 
vaccination drives in countries such as the United States and the United Kingdom, the relatively 
slower pace of the vaccination roll out in many other countries has hindered the resumption of 
international travel. 
The United Nations World Tourism Organisation (UNWTO) projects the outlook for tourism based 
on two scenarios, where tourism is, either way, expected to rebound in the second half of CY2021. 
As per the first scenario a rebound is envisaged in July 2021, whilst the second scenario considers 
a potential rebound in September 2021, subject to a lifting of travel restrictions and success of 
vaccination programmes. The introduction of protocols such as the Digital Green Certificate 
planned by the European Commission is also expected to aid tourism recovery.
The performance of tourism will largely depend on the revival of regional and global travel when 
travellers regain confidence. As noted below, it remains encouraging to witness a significant 'pent 
up' demand for leisure travel, which is also evident through forward bookings at the Group's 
hotels, particularly in the Maldives which witnessed occupancy of 53 per cent in the fourth quarter 
of 2020/21. 
(% Change from CY2019 to CY2020)
(% Change from CY2019 to CY2020)
Jan
Feb
Mar
Apr
May
Jun
Jul
Aug
Sep
Hotel room nights
The Domestic Tourism Market in China is Recovering Rapidly, Indicating the Pent-up Demand
for Travel and Leisure Activities 
The Domestic Tourism Market in China is Recovering Rapidly, Indicating the Pent-up Demand
for Travel and Leisure Activities 
(100)
(80)
(60)
(40)
(20)
0
20
Subway passengers 
Domestic flight passengers
Railway passengers
International flight passengers
Cruise passengers
The business will continue with the 
development and implementation of 
advanced analytics use cases in order to 
foster data driven decision-making. The 
preliminary results of the use cases currently 
rolled out, focusing on aspects such as 
promotion effectiveness, range optimisation, 
and marketing outreach, is promising and is 
expected to meaningfully contribute towards 
enhanced performance.
Office Automation
Looking beyond the impact of the COVID-19 
pandemic, the business remains confident 
of the underlying demand for high quality 
office automation solutions and smart mobile 
phones which is expected to be driven by 
increasing commercial activity within the 
country and an improvement in business 
sentiment. The Government's initiatives aimed 
at transforming Colombo as a financial hub 
will also augur well for the business. 
JKOA will continue to expand its presence in 
the market in line with the envisaged growth, 
whilst leveraging on its portfolio of world-class 
brands and distribution network. The business 
will also leverage on its brand equity to ensure 
a continued supply of mobile phones in to the 
market, aimed at different market segments, 
thereby strengthening its position in the 
mobile phone market. The business will place 
emphasis on improving productivity and 
efficiency in its sales and aftercare operations 
to ensure high quality customer service. To this 
end, focus will also be placed on a range of 
initiatives aimed at digitising the supply chain 
to consolidate its operations and improve 
productivity.  
Jan
(15)
(65)
(97)
(96)
(91)
(79)(76) (77)
(82)
(87) (86) (87)
Feb Mar
Major lifting of travel restrictions and
significant improvement in
traveller confidence
in July
in September
Apr May Jun
Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun
Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
CY2020
CY2020
Monthly International Tourist Arrivals in CY2020, and UNWTO Projections for CY2021
Monthly International Tourist Arrivals in CY2020, and UNWTO Projections for CY2021
CY2021
CY2021
0
(20)
(40)
(60)
(80)
(100)
Scenario 1
Scenario 2
Actual data
(YoY %)
(YoY %)

144   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
Given the interlinkages between global 
economic and tourism recovery, particularly 
the performance of key source markets, the 
Group expects the current impact on the 
Leisure industry group to continue in the 
short-term. 
With the resurgence of the third wave of 
outbreak in Sri Lanka, the Government has 
once again imposed stringent health and 
safety measures to control the transmission 
of COVID-19, including isolation of select 
areas deemed as 'high-risk', travel restrictions 
during select periods and certain restrictions 
on travel within the country. As of the date 
of this Report, all passenger arrivals to Sri 
Lanka are suspended till 31 May 2021. 
Restrictions have also been imposed on 
seating capacities at food and beverage (F&B) 
outlets whilst conferencing and banqueting 
facilities are not permitted to function for a 
limited period of time. Against this backdrop, 
the Leisure businesses have witnessed a 
notable slowdown in domestic activity, from 
that witnessed in the second and fourth 
quarter, which has adversely impacted the 
business. Initiatives rolled out during the 
previous outbreaks, such as the introduction 
of a F&B delivery platform, better equips 
the businesses in catering to demand for 
in-home consumption which was evident 
during periods of restrictions in the past. In 
the immediate-term, given the slowdown in 
domestic tourism due to the current outbreak 
of cases, three Group hotel properties in 
Sri Lanka are being used as intermediate 
care centres (ICC) for the treatment of 
asymptomatic COVID-19 cases. In addition to 
meeting the critical national need to provide 
facilities for individuals infected with the 
COVID-19 virus, this will also help mitigate the 
impact of a drop in domestic tourism since 
the ICCs are in demand given the current 
circumstances. The operations of the Group's 
other Leisure properties in Sri Lanka have 
been restricted during this current outbreak 
in order to manage and mitigate costs. The 
Group will continue to review the trends of 
both international and domestic travel, and 
proactively roll out strategies to optimise 
benefits to all stakeholders. The Group remains 
confident that operations of the hotels will 
gradually ramp up to pre COVID-19 levels in 
tandem with the ongoing vaccine roll outs. 
The Leisure businesses continue to prepare 
themselves for the resumption in tourism 
activity, no sooner domestic activity or 
international travel resumes, particularly given 
the envisaged pent-up demand for leisure 
travel from various markets.
OUTLOOK
Post reconstruction and refurbishments across its three 
Maldivian properties from 2017/18 to 2019/20 and the addition 
of 'Cinnamon Velifushi Maldives', the full complement of all four 
resorts in the Maldives is available to capitalise on this growth 
momentum in tourist arrivals to the Maldives.
Ensuring the health and safety of all stakeholders, particularly the employees and guests, continue 
to be the Group's immediate priority. The businesses will, therefore, ensure that all required social 
distancing protocols and health checks are in place as advocated by international and local 
regulatory bodies. 
In 2020/21, the businesses adopted stringent expense control and cost optimisation measures to 
manage the financial and liquidity burden on the businesses which was augmented by securing 
loan facilities, particularly through the various relief measures extended by the Government and 
the Central Bank at the time. Although such initiatives, which aided the businesses in navigating 
through the challenges presented by the outbreaks last year, will continue to be in place, a 
prolonged impact on the Leisure businesses will further impact the financial position of the 
businesses, although these scenarios have been planned for. John Keells Holdings PLC, the parent 
company, is confident of its ability to extend support to the Leisure businesses, in managing the 
businesses' funding requirements should there be a need. While the short-term will continue to 
pose certain challenges, the anticipated recovery in the country and key tourism source markets 
once the vaccination roll out ramps up, is expected to result in a rapid growth.
Although the construction of 'Cinnamon Red Kandy', jointly developed by John Keells Hotels PLC 
(KHL) and Indra Traders (Private) Limited, was temporarily put on hold with the onset of COVID-19 
last year, construction recommenced during the year. The hotel is envisaged to be launched in the 
second half of 2022/23.
The Government of Maldives has a target of reaching 1.5 million tourists for CY2021, whereas the 
World Bank estimates 1 million tourist arrivals to the Maldives in CY2021. In its efforts to make the 
Maldives the first fully vaccinated tourism country in the world, and thereby attract higher arrivals, 
53 per cent of the eligible Maldivian population and over 90 per cent of the eligible members of 
the tourism industry have received the first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. 
As noted in the Leisure industry group review, arrivals to the Maldives and the Group's Maldivian 
properties have been encouraging with occupancy at ~50 per cent from December 2020 till 
March 2021, despite the travel restrictions in the UK, a key source market to the Maldives, for 
outbound travel. However, since then, an exponential increase in COVID-19 cases in India since 
March 2021, may result in a short-term moderation of arrivals to the Maldives, as India is one of the 
key source markets to the country, although the Group does not expect a significant impact from 
the situation in India, given the composition of arrivals to its Maldivian hotel properties. Over the 
last few weeks, the number of COVID-19 cases in the Maldives has seen a rising trend. While it is 
premature to assess the impacts of this escalation as of now, a continuation of this could cause, in 
the short-term, some disruption to the recovery momentum witnessed thus far. Notwithstanding 
this, the Group envisages a full revival of tourism to the Maldives by the end of this year. Post 
reconstruction and refurbishments across its three Maldivian properties from 2017/18 to 2019/20 
and the addition of 'Cinnamon Velifushi Maldives', the full complement of all four resorts in the 
Maldives is available to capitalise on this growth momentum in tourist arrivals to the Maldives.
Medium to Long-Term (Beyond COVID-19)
Whilst the Group expects significant short-term challenges given the current situation, the Group 
remains confident that the prospects for tourism in the medium to long-term remain extremely 
positive, given the diversity of the offering and the potential for regional tourism, together with 
availability of its full complement of hotels to cater to this anticipated upsurge in demand. The 
potential for tourism still remains largely untapped given the country attracted only 2.3 million 
tourists prior to the Easter Sunday attacks in CY2019, whereas regional tourism has grown many-fold 
during the last decade. The launch of a global tourism campaign which was delayed for many years 
was just about to take place prior to the outbreak of the pandemic in CY2020. Focus on improving 
connectivity into the country at competitive rates along with a concerted marketing campaign in a 
post-COVID-19 environment is expected to be a significant catalyst to attract tourism into Sri Lanka.    

145
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
 Property
Immediate to Short-Term
Despite the recent outbreak and escalation of 
COVID-19 cases in the country, construction 
activity at both 'Tri-Zen' and 'Cinnamon Life' 
sites is currently continuing, in adherence 
to stringent regulations and with some 
impact on the number of workers on site. 
The isolation measures and restrictions in 
movement as advised by the authorities is 
not expected to have a direct impact on 
construction activity, although it is premature 
to fully ascertain the impact, particularly if 
the measures become more stringent and 
if there is direct disruption to the site due to 
the outbreak. The business will continue to 
work closely with the contractor to manage 
the impact on the overall project, its resources 
and deliverables. Continued emphasis will 
be placed on the health and safety of the 
employees and the workers on site with efforts 
underway to vaccinate the workers on site. 
The sales momentum for the residential 
apartments at 'Cinnamon Life' has been slow 
in line with the trends seen in the luxury 
segments in the city. However, with the 
commissioning of the towers and the rest of 
the complex nearing completion, the business 
has witnessed increased interest. Sales at 
'Tri-Zen' has been encouraging with the sales 
momentum reaching pre COVID-19 levels by 
the end of the year under review; this trend 
is expected to continue albeit the short-term 
impact on sales from the current outbreak. The 
funding of 'Cinnamon Life' is in place, given 
the unutilised component of the committed 
syndicated loan facility and availability of 
foreign currency funds earmarked for the 
project at the Holding Company.
On a positive note, 'Cinnamon Life' will 
commence revenue and profit generation 
from the ensuing year onwards, with revenue 
recognition of the residential and office units 
sold outright at 'Cinnamon Life' commencing 
from the first quarter of 2021/22 onwards. 
'Cinnamon Life' is at the tail-end of its 
construction with full operations scheduled 
to commence in the first quarter of 2022/23, 
following which the project is envisaged to be 
a key contributor to Group performance and 
an iconic development which will transform 
Colombo's skyline and be a catalyst in creating 
tourism demand into the city. The Group has 
commenced discussions with key tenants 
for the retail mall, with various alternatives 
being considered for the retail space to ensure 
Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts
As noted in the Leisure industry group review, the Leisure industry group strategically realigned 
the hotel operations, bringing all 'Cinnamon' hotels and resorts under a single operational 
structure. This realignment, which is a part of the Group's vision of expanding its footprint, in an 
asset-light model, will enable the business to create a holistic value proposition that leverages 
on the round-trip offerings in Sri Lanka and the Maldives, whilst fostering greater synergies and 
efficiencies across the hotel portfolio resulting in an enhanced customer value proposition.
Colombo Hotels
Several major infrastructure projects are expected to be completed in the ensuing years in 
Colombo including the Port City Colombo project and the development of the East and West 
Terminals of the POC. Such notable development is expected to augur well for the city, particularly 
in attracting business travellers. The availability of dedicated conferencing and meeting facilities is 
also expected to bode well for tourism, particularly to attract tourism from the MICE segment. The 
Colombo Hotels segment will be uniquely positioned to capitalise on this opportunity, particularly 
given the addition of the 'Cinnamon Life' hotel to its portfolio in 2022/23. 
Continued focus will be placed on prioritising the development of market-specific strategies 
aimed at catering to a diverse clientele. The properties will also leverage on its unparalleled F&B 
offering, by continuing to strengthen its dedicated offerings and flagship restaurants.  
Sri Lankan Resorts
Despite the aforementioned headwinds in the short-term, given the increasing traction Sri Lanka 
has received as a holiday destination and the unparalleled cultural and natural landscape of the 
country, the prospects for the Sri Lankan Resorts segment remain positive in the medium-term. 
The Group will continue its investments to expand the 'Cinnamon' footprint across the island, 
although primarily in line with the Group's asset-light investment strategy. In addition to the 
launch of 'Cinnamon Red Kandy', the Group will also place emphasis on monetising its significant 
land bank, especially in the Southern and Eastern coasts, thereby strengthening its project pipeline 
for the segment.
The segment will also leverage on its newly reconstructed flagship property 'Cinnamon Bentota 
Beach', which was unable to realise its full potential post the re-opening of the property given the 
closure of the country's borders and restrictions on global tourism, to capture premium ARRs and 
further enhance the 'Cinnamon' brand.  
Maldivian Resorts 
The performance of the Maldivian Resorts segment is expected to continue on an upward 
trajectory, given ongoing infrastructure developments and the Government's focus on developing 
the tourism industry. The Group remains confident of the ability to capitalise on the envisaged 
growth in tourism in the medium to long-term given the full complement of all four of its 
properties in full operation as noted earlier. 
The segment will continue to work closely with key tourist market operators to better position and 
market its refurbished room inventory, whilst growing direct bookings through online platforms.
Hotel Management
The sector will continue to develop a pipeline of 'Cinnamon' events, aimed at developing 
Colombo as an entertainment hub in South Asia whilst 'Cinnamon Box Office' will continue to 
deliver world-class entertainment through acclaimed stage productions and variety shows, all of 
which help reinforce the 'Cinnamon' brand.
Destination Management
Emphasis will be placed on opportunities beyond the traditional travel intermediary space. The 
sector will also focus on improving process efficiency, scalability of operations and productivity of 
the business in catering to evolving customer needs through the use of its digital platforms.

146   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
OUTLOOK
unique attractions and offerings. The Group 
is also in the final stages of negotiations with 
prospective tenants for the office space at 
'Cinnamon Life'.
John Keells Holdings PLC, through JK Land, 
committed to acquire the remaining 13.3 
per cent equity stake of Vauxhall Land 
Developments (Private) Limited for a 
consideration of Rs.2.99 billion on or before 
24 September 2021. With this acquisition, 
the Group is of the view that the existing 
land bank is adequate to sustain a steady 
pipeline of projects in the long-term. As 
such, the Group will continue to focus on 
the monetisation of its extensive land bank 
and, as such, does not foresee deployment of 
significant capital in the Property business.
The Group has already gradually commenced 
the monetisation of the extensive land bank in 
Digana, through various real estate products 
under Rajawella Holdings (Private) Limited, 
which include scenic land parcels, town 
houses and villa developments.
On the real estate front, the Group expects the 
mall operations to be significantly impacted 
on the back of the ongoing outbreak and 
the resultant restrictions in movement and 
social distancing norms, although this is not as 
material in the context of the Group.
Medium to Long-Term (Beyond COVID-19)
Given evolving business models such as 
with the transition to remote working 
arrangements in light of the COVID-19 
pandemic, the Property business in particular, 
will assess the business landscape to 
understand possible lasting shifts in real 
restate demand. Notwithstanding this, aspects 
such as increasing demand for commercial 
and residential spaces, an emerging middle-
class demographic, a pipeline of public 
infrastructure projects, increasing urbanisation 
and connectivity are envisaged to drive 
growth in the property and real estate sectors.  
Residential Real Estate
Looking beyond the impacts of the pandemic, 
prospects for the housing market in Colombo 
and the suburbs continue to be promising on the 
back of drivers such as the expanding middle-
class demographic, increased commercial activity 
within Colombo, increasing GDP per capita 
and low single digit interest rates at present. 
Increased investments and higher infrastructure 
spending by the Government, channelled 
towards enhancing connectivity to the 
commercial centres of the country, will accelerate 
demand in these areas and outer regions. 
With individuals increasingly moving towards urban areas as a result of improved connectivity and 
commercial activity, there is a robust and emerging market for affordable, multi-family housing 
solutions in close proximity to such commercial hubs.
The market for vertical and middle-income housing, in particular, is expected to experience significant 
growth given increasing land prices in Colombo and the high costs associated with the construction 
of single-family houses. The proportion of landed housing to apartments within Colombo is notably 
higher than its regional peers, indicating the need and potential for smart housing solutions at 
affordable price points, which however need to be within the limited land bank available in Colombo.
(%)
(%)
Greater
Colombo
Singapore
Thailand
(Central
Bangkok)
Thailand
(Outskirts)
Malaysia
(Central KL)
Malaysia
(Greater KL)
India
(Chennai)
India
(Bangalore)
0
20
40
60
80
100
Apartments
Landed houses
90
10
95
5
80
20
60
40
70
30
50
50
55
45
65
35
The Group will leverage on its high-brand equity and expertise of the industry to exploit such 
opportunities through projects such as 'Tri-Zen' as well as other projects under the 'Metropolitan' 
and 'Suburban' segments. The Group expects to monetise its extensive lank bank of prime real 
estate in Colombo and the suburbs to generate returns above the Group hurdle rates over the 
next 8-20 years given the scale and staggered development of the projects envisaged. To this 
end, the Group has earmarked a development at the 9.38-acre land held under 'Vauxhall Land 
Developments Limited' primarily as metropolitan housing, complemented by other supporting 
commercial uses, which will be developed subject to market demand and supply dynamics.
Commercial Real Estate
The opportunity for high-end 'A-Grade' office space is more pronounced as more global 
companies move to establish offices within the city, especially in the financial services and 
business process outsourcing (BPO) sectors. The transformation of Colombo as a financial and 
commercial hub through large-scale investment projects such as Port City Colombo coupled 
with increase in business activity is envisaged to drive demand in this segment. The absence of 
proper infrastructure and management facilities of the current supply in comparison to modern 
workspaces, also presents an opportunity. However, it is pivotal to note that demand may be 
tempered in the short to medium-term due to lasting COVID-19 impacts. Based on market 
opportunity, the industry group will continue to expand its commercial real estate offering at the 
right time at attractive price points.
Real Estate Investment Trusts
In CY2020, the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) and the Securities and Exchange Commission of 
Sri Lanka (SEC) introduced a framework governing the creation of Real Estate Investment Trusts 
(REITs), which enabled property developers and real estate owners to transfer a notable portion 
of income generating, fully completed properties into REITs. Subsequently, amendments to the 
Inland Revenue Act (IRD) on tax incentives were incorporated to further support this structure. The 
Group is of the view that this special purpose vehicle will augur well for Sri Lanka and the industry, 
and, in this regard, businesses will proactively evaluate opportunities to monetise its assets.  
Source: Company analysis
~60-70 per cent of housing in regional mega cities, both luxury and mid-tier, are predominantly 
apartments to ensure maximum value creation within a limited land bank. However, apartment 
living in Colombo is ~10 per cent, despite the scarcity of land, representing an opportunity within 
the market.

147
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
 Financial Services
Immediate to Short-Term
The ongoing third wave of the COVID-19 
outbreak is expected to exert pressure on 
the performance of the industry group in the 
immediate-term, given the isolation of select 
areas deemed as 'high-risk' and restrictions on 
inter-provincial travel. However, the Group is 
of the view that the industry group is better 
placed this year to manage the impact of the 
ongoing pandemic, given the various initiatives 
rolled out in 2020/21 aimed at ensuring business 
continuity and an agile work environment, 
particularly through investments in digital 
infrastructure and processes. 
The Insurance business is likely to witness 
disruptions to canvassing for new business 
and particularly collections in the short-term, 
should this environment prevail. Whilst it 
is too premature to ascertain the overall 
impact of the current outbreak or for how 
long this situation will prevail, a prolonged 
impact may adversely affect consumer 
sentiment and income, inducing policy lapses. 
However, the business may witness increased 
requirements for digital capabilities amidst 
the COVID-19 pandemic, as evident during 
the previous lockdown, which the business 
is well positioned to capitalise on. This is 
expected to aid the business in managing 
the overall impact on new business premium 
and renewal premium growth. The business 
will also focus on an optimal asset allocation 
to maximise return while managing risks, 
given the prevailing low interest rate regime. 
The business will continue to leverage the 
bancassurance channel given the high level of 
banking penetration in the country. 
Ensuring the health and safety of employees 
and all stakeholders, including the agency 
force, remain a key priority of the business. 
Emphasis will also be placed on expense 
control and cost optimisation.
On the Banking front, managing liquidity, loan 
growth and margins will be a key priority for 
the business. As outlined earlier, a prolonged 
outbreak may result in lacklustre credit 
growth on the back of reduced consumer 
spending which will adversely impact loan 
growth, although growth may stem from 
liquidity needs of corporate clients. Prolonged 
stresses may also result in an increase in non-
performing loans and impairments. 
Supported by a strong capital base, healthy liquidity buffers and robust risk management models, the 
Bank is confident that it has the required resources to withstand the potential impacts arising from 
the current outbreak. To this end, the Bank will continue to proactively assess the developments in 
the environment in order to implement required actions while providing necessary support to the 
measures undertaken by the Government to revive the economy.
The Director of Bank Supervision of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL) has informed John Keells 
Holdings PLC that the Monetary Board of CBSL has permitted the John Keells Group to retain its 
current shareholding of 29.52 per cent in the voting shares of Nations Trust Bank (NTB) until 31 
December 2021 and to reduce it to 20 per cent on or before that date and to 15 per cent on or 
before 31 December 2022.
Medium to Long-Term (Beyond COVID-19)
Insurance
A relatively low level of insurance penetration in comparison to regional markets, rising income 
levels and an ageing population is expected to aid growth in the life insurance industry in Sri 
Lanka. The absence of a pension scheme for all citizens and the increasing prevalence of non-
communicable diseases is also expected to increase demand for long-term health and annuity 
solutions. Union Assurance (UA) is uniquely positioned to capitalise on the aforementioned 
opportunity, given its strong brand equity, diversified portfolio of products and digital know-how. 
The business will focus on diversifying its channels and optimising bancassurance partnerships. 
To this end, although the agency channel is envisaged to be the key driver of revenue growth, the 
business will also focus on expanding the bancassurance and alternate channels, particularly through 
the development of innovative insurance products that meet the evolving needs of customers. 
The business will continue to revolutionise the insurance landscape in Sri Lanka through ongoing 
innovative investments and a clear digital road map that focuses on enhancing customer 
convenience, achieving operational excellence and improving distribution capabilities. Capitalising 
on the vast data reserve, emphasis will be placed on data analytics for better insight on evaluating 
the market, developing innovative products and devising growth strategies to fundamentally 
enhance decision-making capability. 
The Insurance business will leverage on its new identity to attract a new generation of customers 
and augment its market presence. Continued focus will be placed on improving the employee 
value proposition, to drive further value for all employees. The business will also execute various 
strategies aimed at the continuous improvement of the agency force through skill development 
and the retention of the trained talent pool.
Banking
Navigating beyond the impacts of COVID-19, the prospects for the Banking sector continue to be 
promising with NTB uniquely positioned to capitalise on this opportunity. Recent investments and 
focus towards strengthening its digital infrastructure, strong customer relationships and flexible 
solutions have placed NTB in a unique position to capture the opportunities presented by the 
industry's ongoing digital transformation and strengthen its market positioning. 
The Bank will further augment its digital infrastructure and processes to ensure better customer 
service, innovative solutions and efficiency in operations. The continued expansion and 
positioning of 'FriMi' as a lifestyle application and digital bank through the integration of various 
lifestyle solutions, new features and enhanced user interface, will remain an area of focus for the 
Bank in its digitisation drive. 
Investment in upskilling the human capital of the business to thrive in an increasingly digitised 
industry, driving cost and process efficiencies by leveraging on past investments in automation, 
lean process re-engineering and activity-based costing measurement frameworks remain a priority 
in the medium-term.
Stockbroking
The Group expects a revival in foreign investor participation in a post pandemic world, which will 
contribute to improved activity in the Colombo Stock Exchange. John Keells Stock Brokers (JKSB) 
will continue to cultivate foreign tie-ups in order to strengthen its presence amongst foreign 
institutional investors. The business will simultaneously work towards expanding its local client 
base aimed at local corporates, fund managers and high net-worth individuals.

148   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
OUTLOOK
 
Information Technology
Immediate to Short-Term
The outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic 
and the resultant restrictions on movement 
and social distancing protocols, has 
compelled businesses worldwide to adopt 
and implement digital solutions, to an 
extent never envisaged possible. Such 
adoption has also tested the digital posture 
and efficacy of business continuity and 
crisis management plans. The business 
will leverage on its strategic partnerships 
and capabilities to offer smart software 
solutions, especially in the areas of cloud 
computing, software as a service (SaaS) and 
automation, whilst concurrently exploiting 
potential opportunities for managed services, 
outsourcing and offshoring in light of the 
current situation.
Medium to Long-Term (Beyond COVID-19)
The business expects continued adoption of 
information technology solutions even beyond 
the containment of the COVID-19 pandemic 
on the back of the higher adoption of digital 
solutions. To this end, the Group expects to see 
greater traction in the adoption of cloud-based 
solutions and services across industries, with 
emphasis on cloud, SaaS, automation, advanced 
analytics, application modernisation, cyber 
resilience and platform/ecosystem thinking, 
among others. Data is envisaged to become 
the core ingredient driving the 'new normal' in 
terms of driving personalisation across the value 
chain and digital transformation will become 
a key imperative for most businesses to stay 
relevant and drive innovation.
John Keells IT (JKIT) will leverage on its 
strategic partnerships with SAP, Microsoft 
and UiPath, to expand regionally to capture 
high-end accounts and increase business 
reach in Sri Lanka, the Middle East and North 
Africa (MENA) and the Asia Pacific (APAC). 
The business will also focus on delivering 
innovative consultative solutions and services 
across the four value stacks of 'Core', 'Cloud', 
'Platforms' and 'Ecosystems', across multiple 
industries. JKIT will also place emphasis on 
building and expanding its capabilities and 
also look to expand its portfolio of offerings 
beyond core enterprise resource planning 
(ERP), enterprise applications, managed 
development centres, thereby expanding its 
value proposition and competitive advantage.
Other, including Information 
Technology and Plantation 
Services
The low penetration of BPO services in Sri Lanka and the increasing demand for outsourced 
services, particularly non-core functions, is expected to augur well for the BPO industry in Sri Lanka. 
Infomate is uniquely positioned to capitalise on this opportunity, given its strong track record and 
business capability in catering to offshore clients from varying geographies and industries. Against 
this backdrop, the business is envisaged to continue its growth momentum, increasing its market 
share through the acquisition of new clients, while focusing on further diversifying its operations 
and improving the efficiency of its services through automation and digitisation of processes.  
Plantation Services
Immediate to Short-Term
The timely conversion of the traditional tea auctions onto an electronic platform in April 2020 
and the continuation of the tea auctions through this platform to-date, will ensure minimal 
interruption and enable the tea industry to function seamlessly as it navigates through the current 
outbreak. 
Tea Smallholder Factories PLC (TSF) continues to operate its factories, in adherence to stringent 
health and safety protocols and social distancing measures while placing continuous focus on 
the health and safety of the employees. The business will also leverage on the learnings and 
experiences from the previous outbreaks to proactively roll out measures as the situation evolves 
to ensure minimal disruption to the supply chain. Although it is too premature to ascertain the 
full impact of the current outbreak, restrictions on inter-provincial travel and increasing cases 
within the country may create disruptions in the transportation of processed leaf. Despite such 
headwinds, the business expects the industry to remain resilient with steady tea prices and an 
improvement in production. However, a potential reduction in oil prices and devaluation of 
currencies in major tea drinking nations may exert pressure on demand, adversely affecting the 
industry as a whole. 
The increase in the daily wage of plantation workers to Rs.1,000 from March 2021 will adversely 
affect the industry although many representations are being made by the industry to have a 
greater productivity-linked wage increase. 
Medium to Long-Term (Beyond COVID-19)
Global demand for tea is expected to gain traction on the back of an increase in tea drinking 
trends globally and a global recovery fuelled by strengthening currencies in major tea drinking 
nations and steady oil prices. Growing demand for low grown tea from traditional markets in 
the Middle East and Russia and new demand from emerging tea drinking countries such as 
Germany and the United States is expected to augur well for Sri Lanka. Adverse and increasingly 
unpredictable weather conditions on account of climate change and significant competition 
from other tea-producing nations such as Kenya, India and China remain as key challenges for the 
business. The business will also continue to adopt increased regulations and controls on chemical 
usage in the tea plantation industry to meet maximum residue levels (MRLs).
The strategic priorities for TSF for the medium-term are: 
 y
Placing emphasis on the quality of its products whilst also diversifying its manufacturing mix to 
meet market trends and mitigate risks. 
 y
Cost optimisation and improving factory utilisation.
 y
Maintaining its reputation as a high-quality producer to the market, while exploring 
opportunities to cater to high value market segments.
 y
Continual evaluation of opportunities arising from the emerging Chinese market for Ceylon 
orthodox black tea.
The Warehousing business will continue to work closely with its stakeholders to maintain and 
improve relationships while increasing warehouse utilisation. The business will also evaluate 
expansion opportunities, based on requirements and market trends.

149
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
STRATEGY, RESOURCE ALLOCATION AND 
PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT
The Strategy, Resource Allocation and Portfolio Management section 
aims to provide detailed insights to the manner in which investment 
decisions of the Group are made by analysing the performance of the 
overall portfolio, the overall strategic direction of the Group and the 
means by which capital is allocated for investments.
In managing the Group's portfolio, the Group 
places emphasis on identifying and pursuing 
growth prospects that would help achieve the 
Group's vision of 'Building businesses that are 
leaders in the region' and its medium to long-
term objectives. In this light, businesses adopt a 
systematic approach to resource allocation and 
strategy formulation that is aligned with the core 
values, overall direction and strategies of the 
Group. 
As evident from the past, the Group strives to 
constantly align its portfolio of businesses with 
the growth sectors of the economy, both current 
and futuristic, and continuously endeavours 
to ensure that capital resources are efficiently 
employed in a manner that will expand the reach 
of the portfolio, ensure relevance, and give the 
ability to compete at the relevant levels, both 
locally and internationally. The Group believes the 
current portfolio continues to serve that purpose 
and that its investments over the last few years 
and planned investments in these core areas 
reinforce this strategy. 
Given the impact to the Group and its businesses 
as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, the 
preservation of capital resources and its efficient 
deployment has become more pivotal than before. 
Whilst the recent outbreak of COVID-19 cases in Sri 
Lanka has resulted in short-term uncertainty, and 
although it is too early to ascertain the full scale 
of this outbreak, the outbreaks in CY2020 in Sri 
Lanka and the subsequent recovery post easing of 
restrictions, have imparted learnings and garnered 
experience for the Group in better navigating 
the ongoing and potential constraints from the 
current outbreak. Careful planning and oversight to 
enable Group businesses to adapt as the situation 
evolves, whilst managing liquidity and financing is 
of pivotal importance and the Group will continue 
to capitalise on such opportunities to ensure 
continued resilience through the recent outbreak.
Due to the unprecedented events over the last two years, the performance of the portfolio has naturally been impacted and therefore 
the discussion will focus on other aspects of the portfolio strategy. As stated over the previous few years, the Group has been on an 
investment heavy cycle, where significant capital has been deployed in our Group businesses which paves the way for transformative 
growth in the future. These investments have continued unabated, demonstrating the Group's 'resilience in investments'.
The Group is of the view that the fundamentals and potential of the industries the Group 
operates in remain largely unchanged, as the demand drivers underpinning the business 
would still be relevant in the medium to long-term, although there may be changes to 
operating models in some areas.
The Group has been in a capital expenditure cycle in the recent years as it has deployed 
a significant quantum of cash across its businesses to fund the investment pipeline 
to ensure a transformative growth in the years ahead. While these investments had 
short-term impacts on performance over the last couple of years on account of related 
expenses and disruptions, the longer-term benefits of some of these investments are 
now translating to significant performance impacts in these businesses, which are 
not fully visible in the reported results due to the offsetting impacts on account of 
disruptions across two consecutive years given the unprecedented macroeconomic 
circumstances. 
Capital expenditure in recent years include investments aimed at ensuring a completed 
and refurbished portfolio of Leisure properties, increasing the store footprint of the 
Supermarket business which has in the last three years doubled to over 120 outlets 
and enhancing the capacity and capability in the Frozen Confectionery and Insurance 
businesses, amongst others. The most significant of such investments, 'Cinnamon Life', 
is nearing completion with the revenue and profit recognition from the sale of the 
Residential and Office units commencing from the first quarter of 2021/22. 
Going forward, from a capital allocation perspective, the strategy of the Group is unlikely 
to materially deviate as the focus over the last few years has been on driving a better 
balance in terms of the capital deployed. These include a greater emphasis on investing 
in consumer-focused businesses, managing the 'skew' in the quantum of capital 
deployed in the Leisure businesses by focusing on an asset-light investment model and 
evaluating means to unlocking capital in the business, and the strategy of monetising 
the extensive land bank of the Group. Addressing the 'skew' in terms of capital deployed 
continues to be a key priority of the Group, although conditions have not been optimum 
over the last two years to pursue this strategy. The proposed investment towards 
the development of the West Container Terminal (WCT) in the Port of Colombo in 
partnership with the Adani Group in India and the Sri Lanka Ports Authority will ensure 
continued long-term exposure to the ports business in the country which augers well for 
the future of the Group once it materialises. 
For a detailed discussion refer the Outlook section - page 134 
INSIGHTS

150   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
The Project Risk Assessment Committee, a sub-committee of the Board, provides the Board with increased visibility of large-scale new 
investments and assists the Board to assess risks associated with significant investments, particularly at the initial stages of discussions, by 
providing feedback and suggestions in relation to mitigating risks and structuring arrangements. Intervention is mandatory as per the committee 
scope, if the investment cost exceeds a board mandated threshold.
Following are some of the key strategic 
initiatives pursued across Group businesses 
in furtherance of achieving its short, medium 
and long-term objectives.
 y
Creation of sustainable value is at the 
forefront when making operational 
decisions. An aspect of Group-wide 
strategy focuses on driving growth and 
value that is consistent, competitive, 
profitable and responsible. In this regard, 
businesses place emphasis on maximising 
value by augmenting revenue channels, 
increasing market share and exploring 
opportunities by fostering a culture of 
disruptive innovation and digitisation. 
 y
Focus is placed on maintaining flexible cost 
structures to ensure optimisation of costs 
and thereby driving efficiencies and profit 
maximisation. The Group's emphasis on 
cost optimisation, prudence and agility, has 
continued to assist businesses in enduring 
through challenging periods. The Group's 
response to the COVID-19 pandemic is an 
apt example of this, with various expense 
control measures being undertaken at 
different stages of the pandemic, with the 
objective of preserving cash and managing 
its liquidity position.  
 y
Given that continued brand development 
is essential in fostering customer loyalty, 
enhancing business image and establishing 
a more customer-centric identity, Group 
strategy also focusses on increasing 
brand equity through a comprehensive 
understanding of its target market, value 
proposition, internal alignment to the brand 
promise and vision. In furtherance of this, 
'Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts' was strategically 
realigned to create a unified organisational 
structure to ensure an even more synergised 
approach across the Group's hotels with 
a view to providing a further enhanced 
customer value proposition.  
 y
Group strategy also revolves around 
recruiting, developing and retaining a 
talented pool of employees. Over the years, 
the Group has attracted the best and the 
brightest talent towards building a strong 
team that reflects the diversity of the 
customers we serve. The Group engages 
and encourages employees to perform 
to the best of their abilities through a 
performance-oriented culture founded on 
ethical and transparent behaviour, which, in 
turn, promotes sustainable and profitable 
growth. In executing all plans and strategies 
of the business units, talent management 
is scrutinised closely and given significant 
prominence. The Group reinforced its Agile 
Working Policy which was augmented to 
cater to the post-pandemic 'work from 
home' arrangements, some of which 
are likely to continue based on business 
exigencies. The Agile Working Policy will 
help unlock a talent pool and also provide 
flexibility to our pool of employees. 
 y
Another aspect of Group strategy focuses 
on re-engineering, process improvement, 
enterprise risk management and quality 
management in ensuring that business 
processes and governance checks across 
the Group are efficient, agile, robust and 
in line with international best practice. 
The Group's digitisation drive aimed at 
identifying emerging and current disruptive 
business trends and developing the 
digital quotient (DQ) of individuals and 
businesses is also believed to increase the 
STRATEGY, RESOURCE ALLOCATION AND 
PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT
Given the Holding Company's diversified interests, resource allocation and portfolio management are imperative in creating value to all 
stakeholders through evaluation of the Group's fundamentals which are centred on the forms of Capital. Whilst the Group is presented with 
opportunities in diverse industries, it continues to follow its four-step, structured methodology indicated in the ensuing section, in evaluating its 
portfolio and thereby guiding investment and divestment decisions.
FINANCIAL FILTER
GROWTH FILTER
STRATEGIC FIT
COMPLEXITY FILTER
Cornerstone of the 
decision criteria based 
on the JKH hurdle rate
Evaluates the industry 
attractiveness and 
growth potential based 
on the industry life cycle
Evaluates the long-term competitive 
advantage of a business/industry by 
closely evaluating the competitive 
forces, specific industry/business 
risks, ability to control value drivers 
and the competencies and critical 
success factors inherent to the Group
Considers factors such 
as sustainability, senior 
management time and the 
risk to brand image and 
reputation in conjunction 
with the anticipated returns
productivity and efficiency through the 
employment of digital technologies and 
disruptive business models. During the 
year under review, the Group's Data and 
Advanced Analytics Centre of Excellence 
made significant headway with several use 
cases being rolled out in the Supermarket 
and Insurance businesses. Although it is 
premature to fully assess the full impact 
of these interventions, preliminary results 
are extremely encouraging where these 
anticipated benefits have been incorporated 
into future budget plans as well.
 y
Group strategy places significant emphasis 
on minimising environmental impacts 
through impact analysis and stakeholder 
engagement. Strategies are governed by a 
comprehensive environmental management 
system and Group-wide sustainability goals 
which were renewed during the year under 
review. All operational decisions consider the 
impact on the Group's sustainability goals 
and ensure that all possible actions are being 
taken towards reducing waste and adverse 
environmental impacts. 
 y
Focus is also placed on developing life 
skills of communities and empowering 
them in overcoming social, economic and 
environmental challenges. The CSR initiatives 
of the Group are centrally planned and 
implemented by the John Keells Foundation.
Group businesses continue to adopt a 
'Steering Wheel' tool that measures progress 
on a series of internal business Promises 
that cater to the needs of the Customer, 
Community, People, Operations and Finance, 
which feeds into a multi-dimensional 
approach to strategy formulation. 

151
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
REGULAR ASSESSMENT OF RISK AND REWARD 
In measuring business performance and continuity of operations, all verticals and businesses 
within each industry group are regularly assessed on key dimensions such as customer orientation, 
supplier concentration, bargaining power of both customers and suppliers, JV partner affiliations 
and dependence, cyclicality, regulatory structure, performance against the industry and Sri Lankan 
economy, procedural, regulatory or technological factors that obstruct or restrict operations and 
the current and potential competitive landscape, among others. 
The capital structure for new ventures are stress-tested under various scenarios, which often leads 
to taking proactive measures, particularly in managing potential foreign exchange risks during 
both the development and operating phases. Further, ongoing projects are regularly tested and 
evaluated in partnership with independent and recognised parties to ensure clear, impartial 
judgment on matters relating to capital structure, economic implications and key risks. 
JKH'S HURDLE RATE 
The present hurdle rate of JKH is at 15 per cent which is a function of the weighted average cost 
of capital (WACC). The WACC is derived from the Group's cost of equity, cost of debt, target capital 
structure, tax rates and the value creation premium required over and above the WACC. Whilst 
the cost of debt has followed a downward trend, in general, during the period under review, the 
hurdle rate has not been revised on the basis that it is a long-term target, and any revision would 
be warranted only if the above factors are expected to sustain over the long-term. 
Even though this hurdle rate is utilised as the initial benchmark rate in evaluating feasibility and 
opportunity in all projects of the Group, project specific modifiers are also used in order to get a 
holistic view of the project under consideration. As such, a country specific risk modifier would 
be applied for investments with a high proportion of foreign currency investment costs and 
operational cash flows. To this end, the modifier would use a project specific cost of debt and 
foreign currency denominated equity return benchmark commensurate with the investment, 
which in turn would be comparatively analysed against projects with similar risk profiles.
CONCEPTUALISING PORTFOLIO PERFORMANCE 
The Group aims to strike a balance between optimising immediate portfolio returns against 
returns in the future. As such, emphasis is placed on both return generating capabilities of the 
business against its capital employed and the earnings potential of the business or project. This 
is particularly relevant with projects such as 'Cinnamon Life' which has a long gestation period 
which impacts the short-term portfolio returns during the development phase of the project. The 
Group is conscious of the quantum of capital deployed to businesses, and to this end, places a 
strong emphasis on evaluating projects in a manner which optimises capital efficiency, especially 
in capital intensive businesses such as Leisure. In order to manage the effective quantum of capital 
deployed, the Group will continue to explore investment structuring options such as asset-light 
investment models for future hotel projects and monetise the land bank of the Group in such a 
manner that generates a return from the strategic parcels of land held. 
Being a portfolio of businesses, the Group has benefited from contributions from different 
businesses at varying points of time based on their growth cycle and correlation with overall 
economic growth in the country. Over the last few years, the Group has witnessed a shift in the 
composition of its earnings with a greater contribution from higher ROCE earning industry groups 
such as Consumer Foods, Retail, and Financial Services. Looking beyond the short-term impacts 
stemming from the COVID-19 outbreak, the conscious and planned strategies of driving growth 
in these industry groups is expected to contribute towards an improvement in the ROCE for the 
Group, whilst concurrently driving absolute earnings growth. 
Whilst the business outlook on the financial year 2021/22 cannot be fully ascertained at this 
point of time given the uncertain and evolving situation, better insights on consumer behaviour 
and business momentum are expected to aid the business in navigating through the ongoing 
outbreak, in contrast to 2020/21, where businesses faced such unprecedented challenges for the 
first time. 
During the year under review, to afford the 
Group the flexibility and agility to fund its 
investments in an optimal manner whilst 
providing additional support to the Group's 
liquidity position, the Holding Company secured 
a USD 175 million long-term financing facility 
from the International Finance Corporation (IFC) 
as outlined in the Capital Management Review 
section of this Report. Whilst the entirety of the 
loan was drawn down during the year under 
review resulting in an increase in debt at the 
Holding Company, the loan did not impact net 
debt since the cash balance was also retained 
at a Holding Company level. From a portfolio 
management perspective, increased debt 
levels resulting in a higher capital employed 
is expected to have an impact on ROCE in the 
immediate-term, with improvement envisaged 
post the deployment/use of such funds. 
The significant cash reserves of the 
Company are primarily from the debt 
drawdown of the USD 175 million 
long-term financing facility from IFC 
and from the funds earmarked for 
equity commitments of 'Cinnamon Life'. 
Although the cash balance of the Group 
is currently generating returns below the 
Group's hurdle rate, exerting pressure on 
Group ROCE, given the unprecedented 
nature of the COVID-19 pandemic, the 
presence of adequate cash reserves will 
enable the Group to manage its liquidity 
requirements better. 
INSIGHTS
Over the last few years, the 
Group has witnessed a shift in 
the composition of its earnings 
with a greater contribution 
from higher ROCE earning 
industry groups such as 
Consumer Foods, Retail, and 
Financial Services. Looking 
beyond the short-term impacts 
stemming from the COVID-19 
outbreak, the conscious and 
planned strategies of driving 
growth in these industry groups 
is expected to contribute 
towards an improvement in 
the ROCE for the Group, whilst 
concurrently driving absolute 
earnings growth.

152   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
STRATEGY, RESOURCE ALLOCATION AND 
PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT
PERFORMANCE OF THE PORTFOLIO
The Group continually endeavours to deliver 
value to our stakeholders, particularly 
shareholders. To this end, the Group has 
in place long-term financial goals which 
are continually monitored to ensure that 
the Group is moving progressively towards 
its vision and objectives, although recent 
performance has been affected by the effects 
of the intensive capital expenditure cycle 
of the Group, the Easter Sunday attacks in 
2019/20 and the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Capital employed has significantly increased 
as a result of the 'Cinnamon Life' project and 
its gestation period, whilst the long-term 
financing facility obtained during the year 
from IFC has also contributed to a notable 
increase in the capital base, both of which 
have negative impacts on ROCE. These 
strategic choices, however, have established 
a strong platform for future growth and 
while the Board is cognisant of the effects on 
short-term performance, priority was given 
to the accretive value creation in the long-
term. The Group is now poised to reap the 
benefits from the 'Cinnamon Life' project from 
2021/22 onwards, given the revenue and profit 
recognition in lieu of the residential and office 
(180%)
(30%)
(10%)
0%
10%
20%
30%
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
110
120
130
140
160
150
170
190
180
210
200
240
220
230
250
260
270
280
290
300
ROCE (%)
Consumer Foods - 21.5
Information Technology - 20.9
Retail - 13.5
Financial Services - 17.3
Destination Management - (30.2)
Hotel Management - (168.9)
Transportation - 15.1
Sri Lankan Resorts - (11.2)
Colombo Hotels - (6.4)
Maldivian Resorts - (6.7)
Property (excluding Cinnamon Life) - 0.0
Plantation - 9.8
Cinnamon Life - (0.1)
Average effective capital employed (Rs.bn)
Hurdle Rate - 15.0
units handover along with many other investments such as the supermarket outlet expansion and 
the new impulse ice cream plant coming into fruition, to name a few of the key investments in 
the Group. Whilst acknowledging that the performance as depicted in the table is well below the 
target rates, the unprecedented events affecting performance in the last few years has naturally 
resulted in the foremost impact on performance. However, as stated before, the Group believes, 
the 'resilience in investing' which continued unabated will come to bear in terms of the medium-
term performance. 
As seen in the portfolio graph below, a significant portion of capital is deployed in Leisure and 
'Cinnamon Life'. Whilst these have resulted in a significant 'drag' on the ROCE of the Group, the 
commencement of operations of 'Cinnamon Life' will contribute towards a positive ROCE along 
with the recovery of Leisure, particularly since the Group is poised to benefit from having its full 
complement of hotels available once the 'pent up' demand of global tourism materialises.
LONG-TERM ASPIRATIONS
Indicator (%)
Goal
Achievement
2020/21
2019/201
2018/19
EBIT growth2
 >20 
(41.3)
(25.5)
(33.9)
EPS growth (fully diluted)
 >20 
(49.3)
(35.9)
(26.5)
Cash EPS growth (fully diluted)
 >20 
4.5
(24.7)
(15.6)
Long-term return on capital employed (ROCE)
15
2.1
4.2
6.8
Long-term return on equity (ROE)
18
2.2
4.5
7.5
Net debt (cash) to equity3
50
20.0
14.0
1.9
1 Growth rates for 2019/20 have been adjusted for the impact of SLFRS 16 - Leases. The capital employed and equity for 
2018/19 has been adjusted in arriving at the average capital employed and equity base, as applicable, for 2019/20. 
2 EBIT Growth excludes the impact of exchange gains/losses.
3 Excludes lease liabilities.
Whilst the ensuing section details the high-level impacts to ROCE, for a detailed discussion on the impacts to 
EBIT and capital employed, as applicable, refer the Industry Group Review section - page 66 

153
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
Refer the Industry Group Review section for further information - page 66 
Transportation
ROCE
(%)
=
EBIT 
margin 
(%)
x
Asset 
turnover
x
Capital 
structure 
leverage
2020/21
15.1
12.6
1.09
1.10
2019/20
18.7
12.5
1.35
1.11
The reduction in asset turnover is predominantly attributable to 
the decrease in the revenue of the Group's Ports and Shipping and 
Bunkering businesses, due to a reduction in volumes on the back of the 
COVID-19 pandemic. The Ports and Shipping businesses was impacted 
by a shift in the throughput mix as well, given import restrictions in the 
country.
Consumer Foods
ROCE
(%)
=
EBIT 
margin 
(%)
x
Asset 
turnover
x
Capital 
structure 
leverage
2020/21
21.5
14.9
1.05
1.38
2019/20
23.3
15.0
1.12
1.38
Whilst revenue of the Consumer Foods businesses was impacted by a 
decline in volumes due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, the 
businesses also recorded an increase in the asset base, resulting in a 
decline in the asset turnover.
Retail
ROCE
(%)
=
EBIT 
margin 
(%)
x
Asset 
turnover
x
Capital 
structure 
leverage
2020/21
13.5
4.7
1.83
1.58
2019/20
16.0
4.9
2.16
1.50
The decrease in asset turnover, which was the main contributor to the 
decline in the ROCE, was a result of the increase in the asset base due 
to the continued expansion of the outlet base and the investments 
towards the proposed distribution centre of the Supermarket business 
and an increase in inventory and trade and other receivables in the 
Office Automation business in line with higher operational performance. 
Lower absorption of fixed costs on the back of a decline in revenue due 
to the closure of outlets during the lockdown exacerbated the impact.
Leisure
ROCE
(%)
=
EBIT 
margin 
(%)
x
Asset 
turnover
x
Capital 
structure 
leverage
2020/21
(8.2)
(136.5)
0.05
1.10
2019/20
(1.1)
(5.1)
0.19
1.12
The outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic and the resultant closure of 
airports and restrictions on global travel, had an adverse impact across 
all Leisure businesses.
Property
ROCE
(%)
=
EBIT 
margin 
(%)
x
Asset 
turnover
x
Capital 
structure 
leverage
2020/21
0.0
(0.6)
0.05
1.07
2019/20
1.5
41.1
0.04
1.03
*The ROCE of the Property industry group excludes 'Cinnamon Life'.
Given the nature of land banking, the ROCE of the Property industry 
group is suppressed below the Group's hurdle rate, although, as 
discussed before, the ROCE in the medium-term will improve with 
higher revenue recognition in 'Tri-Zen' and continued monetisation of 
the land bank.
Cinnamon Life 
During the year, Rs.8.42 billion of cash equity and Rs.17.61 billion of debt 
was infused to 'Cinnamon Life' to finance the development costs of the 
project. As at 31 March 2021, the cumulative figures stood at Rs.49.98 
billion and Rs.58.86 billion of cash equity and debt, respectively. 
The aforementioned cash equity investment at 'Cinnamon Life' excludes 
the land transferred by JKH and its subsidiaries at the inception of the 
project. Note that all project related costs including interest costs, 
unless explicitly mentioned, are capitalised in accordance with Sri Lanka 
Accounting Standards (SLFRS/LKAS). 
Financial Services
ROCE
(%)
=
EBIT 
margin 
(%)
x
Asset 
turnover
x
Capital 
structure 
leverage
2020/21
17.3
16.1
0.31
3.50
2019/20
14.9
14.0
0.35
3.09
Improvement in ROCE was driven by higher EBIT margins in the Banking 
business and the Stockbroking business, as a result of various cost 
optimisation strategies and efficiency enhancing initiatives.
Other, including Information Technology and  
Plantation Services
ROCE
(%)
=
EBIT 
margin 
(%)
x
Asset 
turnover
x
Capital 
structure 
leverage
2020/21
4.9
73.6
0.06
1.04
2019/20
2.5
31.0
0.08
1.04
ROCE of the Information Technology sector decreased to 20.9 per cent 
[2019/20: 22.8 per cent] due to a decline in asset turnover as a result 
of a decrease in revenue due to the impact of COVID-19. ROCE of the 
Plantation Services sector increased to 9.8 per cent [2019/20: negative 
0.2 per cent] due to an increase in profitability aided by higher tea prices 
and volumes. The ROCE of the Holding Company was impacted by an 
increase in debt mainly on account of the drawdown of the USD 175 
million long-term loan from IFC. However, this was partially offset by 
higher interest income as the full drawdown of the facility was retained 
as cash at the Holding Company.  

154   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
STRATEGY, RESOURCE ALLOCATION AND 
PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT
Return on Capital Employed
Reported
ROCE
(%)
=
EBIT 
margin 
(%)
x
Asset 
turnover
x
Capital 
structure 
leverage
Group
2020/21
2.1
5.5
0.30
1.28
2019/20
4.2
8.6
0.39
1.27
Excluding Leisure
2020/21
5.2
10.9
0.36
1.34
2019/20
6.0
10.3
0.44
1.32
Return on Equity
Reported 
ROE
(%)
=
Return 
on assets  
(%)
x
Common 
earnings 
leverage
x
Equity 
Multiplier
2020/21
2.2
0.8
1.21
2.20
2019/20
4.5
2.4
0.97
1.94
PORTFOLIO MOVEMENTS
Portfolio movements over the past five years are illustrated below.
FY17
FY18
FY19
FY20
FY21
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
450
Transportation
Consumer Foods
Retail
Leisure
Property (including Cinnamon Life)
Financial Services
Other, incl. Information
Technology and Plantation Services 
Capital employed
(Rs.bn)
The ROCE of the Holding Company was 
impacted by an increase in debt mainly on 
account of the drawdown of the USD 175 
million long-term loan from IFC.

155
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
2017/18
2018/19
2019/20
2020/21
Invested Rs.9.41 billion in 
Waterfront Properties (Private) 
Limited.
Invested Rs.6.75 billion in 
Waterfront Properties (Private) 
Limited. 
Invested Rs.10.35 billion in 
Waterfront Properties (Private) 
Limited.
Invested Rs.8.42 billion in 
Waterfront Properties (Private) 
Limited.
JKH was allotted 18,109,079 
ordinary non-voting convertible 
shares in Nations Trust Bank PLC 
as part of the Rights Issue. The 
JKH investment amounted to 
Rs.1.45 billion, with the effective 
economic interest of JKH in NTB 
rising to 32.16 per cent.
Invested Rs.164 million in Glennie 
Properties (Private) Limited, to 
purchase 12.12 perches of land in 
Glennie Street, Colombo 2.
Invested Rs.95.4 million in 
Nations Trust Bank PLC to 
purchase 1.15 million non-voting 
shares.
Invested Rs.5.98 billion in JK 
Land (Private) Limited, increasing 
the shareholding in Vauxhall 
Land Developments (Private) 
Limited to 86.7 per cent from 
60.0 per cent. Committed to 
infuse a further Rs.2.99 billion on 
or before 24 September 2021 
to fully acquire Vauxhall Land 
Developments (Private) Limited.
Invested a total of Rs.6.18 billion 
in JK Land (Private) Limited. Of 
this, Rs.4.37 billion was utilised 
to purchase 334 perches of land 
from a subsidiary of CT Holdings 
PLC. Rs.1.80 billion was infused for 
the development of 'Tri-Zen'.
Invested Rs.1.09 billion in JK Land 
(Private) Limited for the purchase 
of 98.88 perches of land in Tickell 
Road, Colombo 8.
KHL invested Rs.466 million 
in Ceylon Holiday Resorts 
Limited for the refurbishment of 
'Cinnamon Bentota Beach'. 
Invested Rs.215 million in 
purchase preference shares in 
Saffron Aviation (Private) Limited.
Increase in JKH's shareholding 
from 50 per cent to 100 per 
cent through the acquisition of 
11 million shares of Transware 
Logistics (Private) Limited (TWL) 
for a consideration of Rs.305 
million.
Invested Rs.1.06 billion in 
LogiPark International (Private) 
Limited for the construction of a 
multi-use international logistics 
centre.
KHL invested Rs.145 million 
in Indra Hotels and Resorts 
Kandy (Private) Limited, for the 
preliminary construction work of 
'Cinnamon Red Kandy'.
KHL further invested Rs.105 
million in Indra Hotels and 
Resorts Kandy (Private) Limited, 
for the construction work of 
'Cinnamon Red Kandy'.
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC (CCS) 
invested Rs.989 million in the 
Colombo Ice Company (Private) 
Limited, to construct a new ice 
cream production facility in 
Seethawaka.
John Keells Hotels PLC (KHL) 
invested Rs.817 million in Ceylon 
Holiday Resorts Limited and 
increased its shareholding from 
99.1 per cent to 99.3 per cent.
Further to the investment 
made in 2017/18, CCS invested 
a further Rs.450 million in The 
Colombo Ice Company (Private) 
Limited.
JKH divested 915,268 ordinary 
shares of Union Assurance 
PLC (UA), towards meeting the 
minimum float requirement of 
the CSE.
The Group reduced its effective 
holding of UA by 2.36 per cent to 
90.0 per cent for a consideration 
of Rs.290 million to fulfil the 
minimum public holding 
requirement on the 'Diri Savi' 
Board.
INVESTMENTS
DIVESTMENTS

156   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
SHARE INFORMATION
The following is an overview of the market 
conditions which prevailed during the year under 
review, both globally and locally. The section 
concludes with a discussion on JKH share-related 
information.
GLOBAL AND LOCAL MARKET REVIEW
Despite the unprecedented impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on 
economies globally, financial markets across the globe remained 
resilient, with most stock markets worldwide recording returns above 
their historical norms as at the end of the calendar year. With the 
COVID-19 outbreak declared as a pandemic in early March 2020 and the 
resultant uncertainties, the first quarter of CY2020 noted a steep decline 
in global markets where investors were bracing for a global recession. 
Proactive interventions by Governments and central banks such as 
expansionary monetary and fiscal policies to boost economies coupled 
with the rapid development of multiple effective vaccinations, reversed 
this decline with global stock markets rebounding back to record highs 
by end-CY2020. 
To this end, although the MSCI World Index declined by 22 per cent in 
the first quarter of CY2020, the index subsequently gained 46 per cent 
during the remaining quarters, resulting in a 14 per cent increase during 
CY2020. The US stock market followed a similar trend, with the S&P 500 
gaining 16 per cent during the year, despite a 20 per cent decline in 
the first quarter. The US equity market rallied on the back of the largest 
Federal Government stimulus to-date, historic support from the Federal 
Reserve and expectations for an economic rebound as COVID-19 
vaccines became widely distributed, despite the adverse impact of the 
pandemic on unemployment and small businesses. Similar behaviour was 
witnessed elsewhere in the world, with the STOXX Europe 600, China's 
Shanghai Composite and Japan's Nikkei 225 recording gains in the last 
three quarters of the calendar year, despite a decline in the first quarter. 
China's Shanghai Composite and Japan's Nikkei 225 indices gained 13 
per cent and 16 per cent, respectively, during CY2020, while STOXX 
Europe 600 declined by 4 per cent. Emerging market equities marginally 
outperformed developed markets during this period. The main drivers of 
the market were technology and digital services companies.
In line with global and regional markets, both the All Share Price Index 
(ASPI) and the Standard and Poor's Sri Lanka 20 (S&P SL20) Index of the 
Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) exhibited similar trends in CY2020. For 
the financial year, both indices recorded a steep rise, as evident from the 
table alongside. Although market performance was adversely impacted 
by restrictions on physical movement in lieu of the COVID-19 pandemic 
resulting in the closure of the CSE from 20 March 2020 till 11 May 2020, 
and external pressures stemming from a flight of funds in the first half of 
2020/21, strong domestic participation coupled with the prevailing low 
interest rate environment, drove demand towards equities aiding a strong 
rebound in equity markets. An increase in investor participation led to the 
average daily turnover increasing by 259 per cent compared to 2019/20. 
Total net foreign outflows were recorded at Rs.63.64 billion during the 
year compared to Rs.11.06 billion last year, particularly given the multiple 
downgrades in Sri Lanka's sovereign rating. Market price-to-earnings ratio 
(PER) increased to 15.0 times in 2020/21 [2019/20: 8.4 times].
Total number of shares in issue as at 31/03/2021
1,319,663,951
Public shareholding as at 31/03/2021
98.98%
Stock symbol 
JKH.N0000
Newswire codes of the JKH Share
 
Bloomberg
JKH.SL
Dow Jones
P.JKH
Reuters
JKELF.PK
Global Depositary Receipts (GDR) balance
1,320,942
Indices
Value
%
31 Mar 
2021
31 Mar 
2020
MSCI
All Country World Index 
673.29 
442.35
 52 
All Country World Index 
excluding USA
336.07 
229.69
 46 
World (23 Developed markets)
 2,811.70 
1,852.73
 52 
USA
 3,854.97 
2,459.87
 57 
Europe
   1,905.02 
1,341.52
 42 
Europe, Australasia and Far East
2,208.32 
1,559.59
  42 
Emerging Markets 
    1,316.43 
848.58
  55 
Frontier Markets
    573.31 
423.47
35 
Peer
SENSEX
49,509.15 
29,468.49
  68 
JKSE
5,985.52 
4,538.93
 32 
STI
    3,165.34 
2,481.23
   28 
KLSE 
 1,573.51 
1,350.89
  16 
Local
ASPI
 7,121.28 
4,571.63
 56 
S&P SL20
 2,850.12 
1,947.42
 46 
Key Market Indicators
31 Mar 
2021
31 Mar 
2020
%
Overall CSE market 
capitalisation  
(Rs.billion)
3,111.26
2,128.27
46 
Net foreign inflows/ 
(outflows)  
(Rs.billion)
(63.64)
(11.06)
475
Average daily 
turnover  
(Rs.million)
2,934.14
817.82
259

157
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
Market Information of the Ordinary Shares of the Company
2020/21
2020/21
2019/20
Q4
Q3
Q2
Q1
Share Information
 
 
 
 
 
 
High  
(Rs.)
187.00
187.00
154.00
138.00 
  132.00 
172.00 
Low  
(Rs.)
79.90
146.25
124.00
   104.00 
 79.90 
113.90 
Close  
(Rs.)
148.50
148.50
149.60
  134.60 
  122.50 
   115.40 
Dividend paid per share  
(Rs.)
1.50
0.50
0.50
     0.50 
 -
     3.50 
Trading Statistics
Number of transactions
86,930
18,746
14,654
32,604
20,926
22,329
Number of shares traded  
('000)
390,995
97,791
89,174
132,712
71,318
332,433
Value of all shares traded  
(Rs.million)
52,017
15,575
12,422
16,556
7,464
51,311
Average daily turnover  
(Rs.million)
         238 
269
200
259
213
223
Percentage of total market turnover  
(%)
8
5
7 
15
14
28
Market capitalisation  
(Rs.million)
195,970 
195,970
197,255
177,477
161,522
152,161
Percentage of total market capitalisation  (%)
6.3
6.3
6.9
6.6
6.4
7.1
JKH SHARE
The JKH share increased by 29 per cent to Rs.148.50 as at 31 March 
2021 from Rs.115.40 on 31 March 2020. The movement of the JKH Share 
against the ASPI is exhibited below.
0
3
6
9
12
15
JKH Share Performance vs ASPI (Indexed)
JKH Share Performance vs ASPI (Indexed)
Index
Index
No. of shares (mn)
No. of shares (mn)
JKH shares traded 
Jun-20
May-20
Jul-20
Aug-20
Sep-20
Oct-20
Nov-20
Jan-21
Dec-20
Feb-21
Mar-21
ASPI (indexed) 
JKH (indexed)
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
180
200
220
80
100
120
140
160
180
200
JKH High/Low Share Prices per Month
JKH High/Low Share Prices per Month
(Rs.)
(Rs.)
High
Jul-20
Jun-20
May-20
Aug-20
Sep-20
Oct-20
Nov-20
Dec-20
Feb-21
Jan-21
Mar-21
Low
JKH 30-day moving average
The beta of the JKH share as at 31 March 2021 stood at 1.04. The beta 
is calculated on the daily JKH share movements against movements of 
the ASPI for the five-year period commencing 1 April 2016 to 31 March 
2021. The compounded annual growth rate (CAGR) of the JKH share over 
the 5-year period stood at 2.6 per cent, compared to that of the market 
which stood at 3.2 per cent for the same period.
ISSUED SHARE CAPITAL
The number of shares in issue by the Company increased marginally to 
1,319,663,951 as at 31 March 2021 from 1,318,550,768 as at 31 March 
2020 due to the exercise of employee share options (ESOPs). Further 
details of the Company's ESOP plans are found in the ensuing section 
of this discussion. The Global Depository Receipts (GDRs) balance in 
ordinary share equivalent remained at 1,320,942. 
DIVIDEND
During the year under review, the Company paid three interim dividends 
of Rs.0.50 per share, each, in August and December 2020, and March 2021. 
A final dividend for 2020/21 of Rs.0.50 per share was declared to be paid in 
June 2021, reflecting the positive momentum of the performance of the 
businesses in the fourth quarter of 2020/21, notwithstanding the impacts 
of the current outbreak on the cash generation capability of the Group's 
diverse portfolio of businesses and the continued impacts of the Leisure 
businesses on the overall performance of the Group.
Accordingly, the total dividend declared per share for the financial year 
2020/21 amounted to Rs.2.00 per share [2019/20: Rs.2.50 per share]. The 
total dividend paid during the financial year was Rs.1.98 billion [2019/20: 
Rs.4.61 billion]. The Group payout ratio was at 41 per cent during the year 
[2019/20: 49 per cent].
The Group will follow its dividend policy which 
corresponds with growth in profits, whilst ensuring 
that the Company maintains adequate funds to 
ensure business continuity, particularly given the 
prevailing challenging circumstances, and fund its 
pipeline of strategic investments.

158   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
SHARE INFORMATION
(Rs.bn)
(%)
Distributions to Shareholders and
Payout Ratio
Dividend paid
Dividend payout
FY17
FY18
FY19
FY20
FY21
0
2
4
6
8
10
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
7.3
8.3
8.2
4.6
2.0
45
40
54
49
41
The Group will follow its dividend policy 
which corresponds with growth in profits, 
whilst ensuring that the Company maintains 
adequate funds to ensure business continuity, 
particularly given the prevailing challenging 
circumstances, and fund its pipeline of 
strategic investments.
EARNINGS PER SHARE
The fully diluted earnings per share (EPS) for 
the financial year decreased by 49 per cent to 
Rs.3.62 per share [2019/20: Rs.7.14] due to a 
decrease in total profit attributable to equity 
holders. On a recurring earnings basis, the 
diluted EPS decreased to Rs.3.59 in the current 
financial year from Rs.7.08 recorded in the 
previous financial year, thus representing a 
decrease of 49 per cent.
The items affecting profitability are discussed, 
in depth, in the Management Discussion and 
Analysis section of this Report. 
MARKET CAPITALISATION AND ENTERPRISE VALUE
The market capitalisation of the Company increased by 29 per cent to Rs.195.97 billion as at 31 
March 2021 [2019/20: Rs.152.16 billion]. As at the financial year end, JKH represented 6.3 per cent of 
the total market capitalisation of the CSE [2019/20: 7.1 per cent].
The enterprise value of the Group increased by 31 per cent to Rs.244.68 billion as at 31 March 2021 
[2019/20: Rs.186.24 billion].
As at 31 March 2021, JKH had a float adjusted market capitalisation of Rs.193.97 billion and 14,200 
public shareholders. Thus, the Company is compliant under option 1 of the minimum threshold 
requirements for the Main Board of the CSE, as per the directive issued in terms of section 13 (c) 
and 13 (cc) of the Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka Act No.36 of 1987, circulated 
on 16 November 2016.
Price Earnings Ratio
Index
2020/21
2019/20
JKH
41.0
16.2
CSE
15.0
8.4
SENSEX
33.7
17.8
KLSE
20.5
17.6
JCI
26.0
15.7
STI
42.4
13.7
(30)
(20)
(10)
0
10
20
30
40
50
(%)
FY17
FY18
FY19
FY20
FY21
Total Shareholder Return 
19.7
10.0
31.7
6.5
6.9
(23.8)
40.3
39.0
30.0
Annual TSR
Cumulative TSR
Note: Includes the proportionate impact arising from 
the ownership of Warrants and Share Repurchase in 
2018/19.
0
50
100
150
200
250
Market capitalisation
Enterprise value
(Rs.bn)
FY17
FY18
FY19
FY20
FY21
Market Capitalisation and Enterprise Value
191
136
221
188
206
210
152
186
196
245
Summary Indicators
2020/21
2019/20
2018/19
Market capitalisation  
(Rs.billion)
196.0
152.2
205.6
Enterprise value  
(Rs.billion)
244.7
186.2
210.0
EV/EBITDA  
(times)
15.7
9.2
8.8
Diluted EPS  
(Rs.)
3.6
7.1
11.1
PER diluted 
(times)
41.0
16.2
14.0
Price to book  
(times)
0.9
0.7
1.0
Price/cash earnings  
(times)
13.2
10.7
10.9
Dividend yield  
(%)
1.0
3.0
3.8
Group dividend payout ratio  (%)
41.5
49.0
53.7
Net assets per share 
(Rs.)
171.4
164.5
154.9
TSR  
(%)
              30.0 
        (23.8)
6.5
As at 31 March 2021, JKH 
had a float adjusted market 
capitalisation of Rs.193.97 
billion and 14,200 public 
shareholders.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN
The total shareholder return (TSR) of the JKH share stood at 30.0 per cent for the period under 
review, while the total return index of the S&P SL 20 recorded a return of 55.0 per cent. On a 
cumulative basis, over a five-year holding period, the share inclusive of dividends and warrants 
issued, posted a compounded annualised total return of 6.8 per cent.

159
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
Composition of Shareholders
31 Mar 2021
31 Mar 2020
Number of 
Shareholders
Number of 
Shares
%
Number of 
Shareholders
Number of 
Shares
%
Non-resident:
Institutions 
 89 
 485,528,066 
 36 
 100 
 580,679,792 
 44 
Individuals 
 243 
 6,952,365 
 1 
 230 
 8,751,833 
 1 
Total Non-resident 
 332 
 492,480,431 
 37 
 330 
 589,431,625 
 45 
Resident:
Institutions 
 692 
 408,263,803 
 31 
 602 
 322,603,994 
 24 
Individuals* 
 13,182 
 418,919,717 
 32 
 10,809 
 406,515,149 
 31 
Total Resident 
 13,874 
 827,183,520 
 63 
 11,411 
 729,119,143 
 55 
Total
 14,206 
 1,319,663,951 
 100 
 11,741 
 1,318,550,768 
 100 
* Includes Directors, spouses and connected parties.
Distribution of Shareholders
31 Mar 2021
31 Mar 2020
Number of 
Shareholders
%
Number of 
Shares Held
%
Number of 
Shareholders
%
Number of 
Shares Held
%
Less than or equal to 1,000
9,178
64
 2,086,693 
0
7,452
53
 1,595,028 
0
1,001 to 10,000
3,422
24
 12,270,037 
1
2,864
20
 10,285,225 
1
10,001 to 100,000
1,237
9
 38,224,468 
3
1,094
8
 33,149,306 
3
100,001 to 1,000,000
256
2
 80,702,749 
6
224
2
 70,765,045 
5
Over 1,000,001
113
1
 1,186,380,004 
90
107
1
 1,202,756,164 
91
Total
 14,206 
100
 1,319,663,951 
100
 11,741 
83
 1,318,550,768 
100
Options Available to Executive Directors under the Employee Share Option Scheme
Year of Expiry
K Balendra
G Cooray
Granted 
Shares 
(Adjusted)*
Immediately 
Vesting
To be Vested
Granted 
Shares 
(Adjusted)*
Immediately 
Vesting
To be Vested
2021/22
 300,000 
 300,000 
-
 300,000 
 300,000 
-
2022/23
 375,000 
 281,250 
 93,750 
 350,000 
 262,500 
 87,500 
2023/24
 450,000 
 225,000 
 225,000 
 430,000 
 215,000 
 215,000 
2024/25
 450,000 
 112,500 
 337,500 
 430,000 
 107,500 
 322,500 
2025/26
 450,000 
-
 450,000 
 430,000 
-
 430,000 
Total
 2,025,000 
 918,750 
 1,106,250 
 1,940,000 
 885,000 
 1,055,000 
* Adjusted for share subdivisions.

160   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
Director's Shareholding
31 Mar 2021
31 Mar 2020
K Balendra*
10,914,400
10,914,400
G Cooray
207,105
207,105
H Wijayasuriya
-
-
A Omar
-
-
N Fonseka
-
-
A Cabraal
45,137
45,137
P Perera
-
-
*Includes shareholding of spouse.
Note: There were no share dealings by the Executive Directors to be reported for John 
Keells Holdings PLC, for the period between 1 April 2020 to 31 March 2021. Therefore, 
there has been no requirement to maintain an interest register for this period.
Executive Director's Shareholding in Group Companies
Number of Shares as at 
31 Mar 2021
K Balendra* 
G Cooray
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC
81,904
-
Asian Hotels and Properties PLC
-
10,600
Trans Asia Hotels PLC
-
1,200
*Includes shareholding of spouse.
Top Twenty Shareholders of the Company
31 Mar 2021
31 Mar 2020
Number of 
Shares
%
Number of 
Shares
%
Mr S E Captain
150,769,641
 11.42 
153,211,107
 11.62 
Citigroup Global Markets Limited Agency Trading Prop Securities A/C
141,854,717
 10.75 
141,854,717
 10.76 
Melstacorp PLC
128,917,111
 9.77 
128,917,111
 9.78 
Paints and General Industries Limited
114,977,303
 8.71 
93,787,615
 7.11 
Schroder International Selection Fund
42,475,806
 3.22 
42,475,806
 3.22 
HWIC Asia Fund
39,250,982
 2.97 
39,250,982
 2.98 
Mr R S Captain
35,544,282
 2.69 
35,733,994
 2.71 
Norges Bank Account 2
31,706,807
 2.40 
28,394,516
 2.15 
Aberdeen Standard Asia Focus PLC
23,873,572
 1.81 
22,693,572
 1.72 
Mr Kandiah Balendra
19,511,476
 1.48 
19,511,476
 1.48 
Employees Trust Fund Board
18,709,833
 1.42 
18,690,918
 1.42 
Fidelity Fund - Pacific
17,880,904
 1.35 
19,060,108
 1.45 
Mrs C S De Fonseka
16,952,586
 1.28 
13,668,417
 1.04 
Mrs S A J De Fonseka
15,204,230
 1.15 
13,122,826
 1.00 
Edgbaston Asian Equity Trust
14,809,382
 1.12 
29,849,703
 2.26 
Chemanex PLC
11,417,835
 0.87 
5,250,569
 0.40 
LF Ruffer Investment Funds: LF Ruffer Pacific and Emerging Markets Fund
11,297,899
 0.86 
11,297,899
 0.86 
Mr K N J Balendra
10,907,628
0.83
10,907,628
0.83
Schroder Asian Growth Fund
10,328,047
 0.78 
13,164,018
1.00
Employee's Provident Fund
10,159,322
0.77
10,159,322
0.77
SHARE INFORMATION

161
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
Employee Share Option Plan as at 31 March 2021
Date of 
Grant
Employee 
Category
Shares 
Granted
Expiry 
Date
Option 
Grant 
Price (Rs.)
Shares 
Adjusted2
Exercised
Cancelled2
Outstanding
Due to 
Resignations
Due to 
Performance
Total
Vested
Unvested
End/
Current 
Price2 (Rs.)
PLAN 9
15.08.2016
9,948,581
14.08.2021
142.83
9,948,581
1,254,709
1,214,787
194,161
7,284,924
7,284,924
142.83
Award 13 
GEC1
2,625,000
2,850,000
600,000
2,250,000
2,250,000
Other 
Executives
7,323,581
7,098,581
654,709
1,214,787
194,161
5,034,924
5,034,924
PLAN 9
03.07.2017
10,402,204
02.07.2022
173.25
10,402,204
1,204,397
194,578
9,003,229
7,522,807
1,480,422
173.25
Award 24
GEC1
2,865,000
3,090,000
3,090,000
2,852,500
237,500
Other 
Executives
7,537,204
7,312,204
1,204,397
194,578
5,913,229
4,670,307
1,242,922
PLAN 9
22.06.2018
10,381,395
21.06.2023
 154.10 
10,381,395
27,798
1,074,941
192,016
9,086,640
5,715,915
3,370,725
 154.10 
Award 35
GEC1
2,615,000
2,970,000
2,970,000
2,352,500
617,500
Other 
Executives
7,766,395
7,411,395
27,798
1,074,941
192,016
6,116,640
3,363,415
2,753,225
PLAN 10
01.07.2019
6,568,000
30.06.2024
 136.97 
6,568,000
32,500
268,000
122,250
6,145,250
2,194,250
3,951,000
 136.97 
Award 16
GEC1
2,460,000
2,460,000
2,460,000
1,140,000
1,320,000
Other 
Executives
4,108,000
4,108,000
32,500
268,000
122,250
3,685,250
1,054,250
2,631,000
PLAN 10
19.10.2020
6,557,100
30.06.2025
 132.86 
6,557,100
30,000
6,527,100
431,700
6,095,400
 132.86 
Award 27
GEC1
2,230,000
2,230,000
2,230,000
350,000
1,880,000
Other 
Executives
4,327,100
4,327,100
30,000
4,297,100
81,700
4,215,400
Total
50,638,562
52,676,487
1,576,470
4,915,020
828,031
38,047,143
23,149,596
14,897,547
1  GEC comprises of the Executive Directors and Presidents.
2  Adjusted for Bonus Issues/Right Issues/Sub-divisions.
3  Plan 9 (Award 1) - 100% of the options had vested as at 31 March 2021.
4  Plan 9 (Award 2) - 75% of the options had vested as at 31 March 2021.
5  Plan 9 (Award 3) - 50% of the options had vested as at 31 March 2021.
6  Plan 10 (Award 1) - 25% of the options had vested as at 31 March 2021.
7  Plan 10 (Award 2) - None of the options had vested as at 31 March 2021 with the exception of retirees.

162   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
SHARE INFORMATION
Share Capital
Year ended 31 Mar
Number of Shares in 
Issue (million)
2011
 629.69 
2012
 844.12 
2013
 857.24 
2014
 990.29 
2015
 997.49 
2016
 1,189.40 
2017
 1,387.47 
2018
 1,387.53 
2019
 1,318.17 
2020
 1,318.55 
2021
 1,319.66 
Dividends
Year ended 31 Mar
DPS* (Rs.)
Dividends 
(Rs.000)
2011
3.00
1,868,707
2012
3.00
2,313,519
2013
3.50
2,982,421
2014
3.50
3,266,718
2015
3.50
3,475,947
2016
7.00
8,037,790
2017
5.50
7,280,497
2018
6.00
8,324,983
2019
5.00
8,186,450
2020
2.50
4,614,133
2021
2.00
1,978,317
*Dividend declared per share.
2020/21 Financial Calendar
Date
Three months ended 30 June 2020
29-Jul-2020
Six months ended 30 September 2020
5-Nov-2020
Nine months ended 31 December 2020
27-Jan-2021
Annual Report 2020/21
24-May-2021
42nd Annual General Meeting
25-Jun-2021
First interim dividend paid on
28-Aug-2020
Second interim dividend paid on
7-Dec-2020
Third interim dividend paid on
2-Mar-2021
Final dividend proposed to be paid on
25-Jun-2021
2021/22 Financial Calendar
Date
Three months ended 30 June 2021
On or before 28 July 2021
Six months ended 30 September 2021
On or before 2 November 2021
Nine months ended 31 December 2021
On or before 26 January 2022
Annual Report 2021/22
On or before 25 May 2022
43rd Annual General Meeting
On or before 24 June 2022
GDR History (in terms of ordinary shares, million)
Year ended  
31 Mar
Opening 
Balance
Issued*
Converted/ 
Repurchased
Closing 
Balance
2011
0.98
 -  
0.03
0.95
2012
0.95
0.32
0.08
1.19
2013
1.19
 -  
0.06
1.13
2014
1.13
 - 
0.01
1.12
2015
1.12
 -   
 -   
1.12
2016
1.12
 -   
 -   
1.28
2017
1.12
0.2
 - 
1.32
2018
1.32
 -   
 -   
1.32
2019
1.32
 -   
 -   
1.32
2020
1.32
 -   
 -   
1.32
2021
1.32
 -   
 -   
1.32
1 GDR is equivalent to 2 ordinary shares.
*  First issued in 1994/95 and subsequently increased along with bonus issues and subdivision  
of shares.
History of Scrip Issues, Rights and Repurchases
Year 
ended 
31 Mar
Issue
Basis
Number 
of Shares 
(million)
Ex-date
Cash 
Inflow/
(Outflow) 
(Rs.billion)
2012
Subdivision
4:3
210
30-Jun-2011
N/A
2013
Rights @ Rs.175*
2:13
132
3-Oct-2013
23.1
2016
Subdivision
7:8
143
30-Jun-2015
N/A
2017
Subdivision
7:8
170
30-Jun-2016
N/A
2019
Repurchase @ 
Rs.160
1:20
69
11-Jan-2019
 (11.1)
* Unadjusted prices.

163
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
AGILE
GOVERNANCE
165  Corporate Governance Commentary x 181  Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality 
184  Risks, Opportunities and Internal Controls

164   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
In furtherance of Group's sustainability and digitisation 
efforts, coupled with the need to strike a balance 
between the principles of conciseness and completeness 
in Integrated Reporting, the Group has used a variety 
of reporting formats to meet diverse stakeholder 
requirements. Whilst the section that ensues discusses the 
key highlights for the year under review and applicable 
disclosures, the Corporate Website entails a detailed and 
comprehensive discussion of the below sections.
Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality
Provides an overview of the Group's approach and framework towards sustainable 
development and long-term value creation.
Risks, Opportunities and Internal Controls
Includes a discussion of the key risks faced by the Group. The section also entails an overview 
of the Group's Enterprise Risk Management framework.
Corporate Governance Commentary
Entails a discussion of the Group's corporate governance framework, which endeavours 
to create an enabling environment for growth in a structured, predictable and sustainable 
manner.

165
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
Regulatory Benchmarks
Standard / Principle / Code
Adherence
The Companies Act No.7 of 2007 and regulations
Mandatory provisions - fully compliant
Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) 
Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka Act 
No. 36 of 1987, including directives and circulars
Code of Best Practices on Related Party Transactions 
(2013) advocated by the Securities and Exchange 
Commission of Sri Lanka (SEC)
Code of Best Practice on Corporate Governance 
(2013) jointly advocated by the SEC and the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka)
Voluntary provisions - fully compliant
Code of Best Practice on Corporate Governance 
(2017) issued by CA Sri Lanka
Voluntary provisions – compliant with 
almost the full 2017 Code, to the extent 
of business exigency and as required by 
the John Keells Group
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMENTARY
The Group's robust and comprehensive corporate governance framework, 
endeavours to create an enabling environment for growth in a structured, 
predictable and sustainable manner. The Group's corporate governance philosophy 
is institutionalised across all its business units, and it is this philosophy that has 
continuously created value for all its stakeholders, notwithstanding the external 
environment and macro conditions.
COMPLIANCE SUMMARY 
Key Internal Policies
 y
Articles of Association of the Company 
 y
Recruitment and selection policies
 y
Learning and development policies
 y
Policies on equal opportunities, non-
discrimination, career management and 
promotions
 y
Rewards and recognition policy
 y
Leave, flexi-hours, teleworking and agile 
working policies including health and 
safety enhancements and protocols in 
light of the COVID-19 pandemic
 y
Code of conduct which also includes 
policies on gifts, entertainment, 
facilitation payments, proprietary and 
confidential information
 y
Gender policy
 y
Policy against sexual harassment
 y
Policies on forced, compulsory and child 
labour and Child Protection adopted by 
the Group
 y
Disciplinary procedure
 y
Policy on grievance handling
 y
Policies on anti-fraud, anti-corruption 
and anti- money laundering and 
countering the financing of terrorism   
 y
Policy on communications and ethical 
advertising 
 y
Ombudsperson policy
 y
Group accounting procedures and 
policies
 y
Policies on enterprise risk management
 y
Policies on fund management and 
foreign exchange risk mitigation
 y
IT policies and procedures, including 
data protection, classification and 
security
 y
Group environmental and economic 
policies
 y
Whistleblower policy
 y
Policies on energy, emissions, water and 
waste management
 y
Policies on products and services
In furtherance of Group's sustainability 
and digitisation efforts, coupled with the 
need to strike a balance between the 
principles of conciseness and completeness 
in Integrated Reporting, the Group has 
used a variety of reporting formats to meet 
diverse stakeholder requirements. Whilst 
the section that ensues discusses the 
key highlights for the year under review 
and the mandatory disclosures required 
under various regulatory frameworks, the 
Corporate Website entails a detailed and 
comprehensive discussion of the Group's 
Corporate Governance Framework.
The Group's framework has its own set of 
internal policies processes and structures aimed 
at meeting accepted best practice, in addition 
to the 'triggers' which ensure compliance 
with mandatory regulatory requirements. This 
framework is regularly reviewed and updated 
to reflect global best practice, evolving 
regulations, and dynamic stakeholder needs, 
while maintaining its foundational principles 
of accountability, participation, integrity and 
transparency. 
KEY GOVERNANCE HIGHLIGHTS
 y
Given the unprecedented challenges 
and operating conditions arising from 
the COVID-19 pandemic, in March 2020, 
the Group evaluated the resilience of 
its businesses under multiple scenarios, 
including extreme operating conditions. The 
businesses continued to proactively evaluate 
their operational performance and financial 
health during the year under review with 
many measures implemented from March 
2020 onwards, including the following.
 y
Adopted weekly dashboards, which 
cover financial and non-financial KPIs 
and revised targets, including monitoring 
of weekly cash and collections targets.
For a detailed Corporate 
Governance Commentary 
www.keells.com 

166   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
 y
Established 'cash war rooms' and 'spend control towers' to critically review each 
spend item, prioritise payments, and impose clear reporting metrics. Although such 
initiatives were institutionalised primarily in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the 
Group will continue to implement select measures to ensure an agile, efficient and 
productive business model.
 y
A freeze on all non-essential capital expenditure.
 y
Enforced stringent expense control measures, including a reduction in executive staff 
remuneration ranging from 5 to 60 per cent across the Group. Full remuneration was 
reinstated from July 2020 onwards, in tandem with the recovery in performance.
 y
Group companies applied for relief measures, where relevant, extended by the 
Government and Central Bank which eased the financial position further. 
 y
While the Group had a strong cash position and availability of banking facilities at the 
onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, continued focus was placed on ensuring balance sheet 
strength to support the investment pipeline of the Group. In June 2020, JKH entered into a 
ten-year financing agreement with the International Finance Corporation (IFC) for USD 175 
million to support funding of the Holding Company's investment pipeline, marking IFC's 
largest investment to date in Sri Lanka. 
 y
Despite the increase in debt on account of the drawdown of this facility, it is noted 
that there was no impact on net debt as at 31 March 2021 since the cash balance was 
also retained at the Holding Company level. 
 y
During the year under review, the Group entered into an interest rate hedge for USD 
100 million of the USD 175 million long-term financial facility as a prudent measure 
to mitigate the Group's exposure to interest rate fluctuations. In April 2021, the Group 
entered into a further hedge for USD 57 million of the remaining exposure of USD 75 
million of the IFC loan.
 y
The Group introduced an improved and augmented Agile Working Policy with the intention 
of encouraging and unlocking new talent pools and adopting new ways of working, 
particularly in adapting to the evolving and dynamic environment. Whilst this policy facilitates 
current working arrangements with greater clarity, the primary purpose of this policy is to 
ensure a greater degree of employee involvement and flexibility in work arrangements, which 
will help increase retention and motivation of existing employees while expanding the talent 
pool and enabling greater participation of women in the workforce. 
 y
With the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Group transitioned to 'work from home' 
arrangements, where possible. The Group's robust technology and digital platforms 
in place at the time enabled a seamless transfer with minimal impact on business 
operations. In order to further strengthen the IT frameworks in place the Group 
continued with its migration to cloud-based identity management, consolidated the 
Security Operations Centre protocols, augmented data classification and management 
while migrating applications to the cloud and adopting digital platforms. 
 y
To amplify the Group's emphasis on creating an inclusive, diverse and equitable 
work environment, the Group's first Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DE&I) programme 
was established with the aim of increasing female participation in the workforce by 
implementing identified initiatives such as gender goals, employer supported childcare 
solutions, change agent networks and training and development. Some key initiatives in 
this regard included extension of maternity and paternity leave, introduction of adoption 
leave and institution of a Gender Policy. The Group also established a goal of increasing 
women participation up to 40 per cent by the end of 2025/26 [2020/21: 30 per cent], as a 
first step towards achieving gender parity in the employee cadre.
 y
The Group embarked on a journey of strengthening its internal audit and process 
review framework by further augmenting, through automation, its holistic approach to 
conducting internal audits and process reviews. This framework is expected to encourage 
auditors to report on value added recommendations, based on independent assessments 
and their knowledge of leading industry best practice and access to global knowledge 
bases. It will also help ascertain the degree of alignment between process controls and IT 
functional facilitation of these processes, expand its database of known types of fraud and 
maintain a central repository of data sets to undertake retrospective forensic data analysis 
and to steer audit scoping going forward.
 y
The integrated fraud deterrent and investigation 
framework, which was initiated with the 
aim of driving and delivering continuous 
improvements of its assurance related initiatives, 
ran its first full cycle of operations during the 
year under review. As envisaged, the framework 
integrated the management of all aspects of 
fraud and stakeholder assurance, reinforced 
uniformity across common processes in matters 
relating to fraud and employed a data-driven 
approach to the continuous assessment 
of control efficacy while enabling better 
monitoring and refining audit trails.
 y
'Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts' was strategically 
realigned to create a unified organisational 
structure to ensure an even more focused 
leadership and synergised approach across 
the Group's hotels. The revised structure 
encompasses a holistic approach to the 
portfolio of hotels as opposed to the previous 
separate verticals of City and Resorts – in Sri 
Lanka and the Maldives.  
Leisure industry group review - page 96 
 y
Independence of the Group's whistle-blower 
channels was maintained by the appointment 
of a new Ombudsperson effective 1 December 
2020. This individual is an attorney-at-law by 
profession.
 y
Given the faster than anticipated recovery 
momentum in business activity and the 
generation of cash profits by the Group, during 
the year under review, the Board declared 
a first, second and third interim dividend of 
Rs.0.50 per share each in July 2020, November 
2020 and January 2021, respectively. A final 
dividend for 2020/21 of Rs.0.50 per share was 
declared to be paid in June 2021, reflecting the 
positive momentum of the performance of the 
businesses in the fourth quarter of 2020/21, 
notwithstanding the impacts of the current 
outbreak on the cash generation capability of 
the Group's diverse portfolio of businesses and 
the continued impacts of the Leisure businesses 
on the overall performance of the Group. The 
staggered payments were reflective of the 
cognisance of the Board of the potential for 
an uncertain business environment due to 
the pandemic, although improved business 
performance paved the way to continue with 
the declaration of dividends as witnessed.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMENTARY

167
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
THE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SYSTEM
The diagram below illustrates the key components of the Corporate Governance System of the John Keells Group. It depicts the internal governance 
structure, from the Board of Directors cascading down to employee level, the integrated governance systems and procedures within the Group, the 
Assurance Mechanisms in place and the various regulatory frameworks the Group is compliant with from a Governance standpoint. 
A detailed discussion of each of the below components is 
found on the corporate website: www.keells.com/governance
LEVEL
Group
Group + 
Industry / 
Function
Industry / 
Function
Sector /  
Function /  
Sub-sector
Business / 
Function /  
BU /  
Department
Strategy Formulation 
and Decision-Making 
Process
Human Resource 
Governance
Integrated Risk 
Management
IT Governance
Tax Governance
Stakeholder 
Management and 
Effective 
Communication
Sustainability 
Governance
INTEGRATED 
GOVERNANCE
Integrated Governance 
Systems and Procedures
Board of 
Directors
Human Resources 
and Compensation 
Committee
Related Party 
Transactions 
Review 
Committee
Audit 
Committee
Nominations 
Committee
Project Risk 
Assessment 
Committee
Chairman-CEO
Group Executive Committee (GEC)
Group Operating Committee (GOC)
Group Management Committee (GMC)
Sector Committee
Management Committee
Employee Empowerment
INTERNAL GOVERNANCE 
STRUCTURE
Board of Directors and  
Senior Management Committees
JKH Code  of 
Conduct
Senior 
 Independent 
 Director
Board 
Committee
Employee 
Participation
Internal 
Control
Ombudsperson
External 
Assurance
ASSURANCE 
MECHANISMS 
Companies Act No. 7 of 2007
Mandatory compliance
Listing Rules of the Colombo 
Stock Exchange (CSE)
Mandatory compliance
Securities and Exchange 
Commission of Sri Lanka (SEC) 
Act No. 36 of 1987, including 
directives and circulars
Mandatory compliance
Code of Best Practice on 
Related Party Transactions 
(2013) advocated by SEC
Mandatory compliance
The Code of Best Practice on 
Corporate Governance (2013) 
as published by the Securities 
and Exchange Commission 
and the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants, Sri Lanka  
(CA Sri Lanka)
Voluntary compliance
The Code of Best Practice on 
Corporate Governance (2017) 
issued by CA Sri Lanka
Voluntary compliance with almost 
the full 2017 Code, to the extent of 
business exigency and as required 
by the John Keells Group
REGULATORY 
MECHANISMS
 y
All 5 Board Sub-Committees are chaired by Independent Directors appointed by the Board.
 y
The Chairman-CEO is present at all Human Resources and Compensation Committee meetings unless the Chairman-CEO's performance assessment or remuneration 
is under discussion. The Deputy Chairman/Group Finance Director is invited as necessary.
 y
Audit Committee meetings are attended by the Chairman-CEO and the Deputy Chairman/Group Finance Director. The Head of Group Business Process Review, 
External Auditors and the Group Financial Controller are regular attendees.
 y
The GOC acts as the binding agent to the various businesses within the Group towards identifying and extracting Group synergies.
 y
Due to space constraints only the key components are depicted in the diagrams.

168   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
PREMILA PERERA
Non-Executive Director
Premila Perera was appointed to the Board 
of the Company with effect from 1 July 
2014 as an Independent Non-Executive 
Director. Premila Perera, formerly a Partner, 
KPMG in Sri Lanka, also served as the Global 
Firms Regional Tax Director for ASPAC in 
2000/01, as a member of the Global Task 
force commissioned in 1998, to advise 
the International Board of KPMG on future 
directions in determining long-term strategic 
plans, and faculty of the KPMG International 
Tax Business School. She also served a period 
of secondment with the US Firm's National 
Tax Office in Washington DC, and was a 
participant at the KPMG-INSEAD International 
Banking School programme. She is a Fellow of 
the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri 
Lanka. She served as an Independent Director 
and Chairperson of the Audit and Related 
Party Transaction Committees of Ceylon 
Tobacco Company PLC until October 2017 and 
as a Non-Executive Director of Holcim (Lanka) 
Limited until August 2016.
NIHAL FONSEKA
Non-Executive Director
Nihal Fonseka is a career banker and served as 
the Chief Executive Officer Director of DFCC 
Bank from 2000 until his retirement in 2013. He 
is currently a Chairman of Phoenix Industries 
Limited, Non-Executive Director and Chairman of 
the Investment Committee of Phoenix Ventures 
Limited and Non-Executive Director and Chairman 
of the Group Audit Committee of Brandix Lanka 
Limited. He was a member of the Monetary Board 
of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka from 2016 to 
2020 and from 2011 until recently the President 
of the Sri Lanka National Advisory Council of the 
Chartered Institute of Securities and Investments, 
UK . Prior to joining the DFCC Bank, he was the 
Deputy Chief Executive of HSBC Sri Lanka. He is a 
past Chairman of the Colombo Stock Exchange 
and the Association of Development Financing 
Institutions in Asia and the Pacific (ADFIAP). He has 
also served as a Director of the Employees' Trust 
Fund Board and as a member of the Presidential 
Commission on Taxation (2009), National 
Procurement Commission and Strategic Enterprise 
Management Agency (SEMA). He holds a B.Sc 
from the University of Ceylon, Colombo, is a Fellow 
of the Institute of Financial Studies, (FIB) UK and 
is a Honorary Fellow of the Chartered Institute of 
Securities and Investments, FCSI (Hon), UK.
P
SID
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMENTARY
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Board Composition 
As at 24 May 2021, the Board comprised of 7 Directors, with 5 of them being Non-Executive Independent Directors.  
Profiles of Board of Directors
KRISHAN BALENDRA
Chairman 
Krishan Balendra is the Chairman of John Keells 
Holdings PLC. He is a Director of the Ceylon 
Chamber of Commerce and the Hon. Consul 
General of the Republic of Poland in Sri Lanka. 
He is a former Chairman of Nations Trust Bank 
and the Colombo Stock Exchange. Krishan 
started his career at UBS Warburg, Hong Kong, 
in investment banking, focusing primarily on 
equity capital markets. He joined JKH in 2002. 
Krishan holds a law degree (LLB) from the 
University of London and an MBA from INSEAD.
GIHAN COORAY
Deputy Chairman /  
Group Finance Director
Gihan Cooray is the Deputy Chairman/Group 
Finance Director and has overall responsibility 
for the Group's Finance and Accounting, 
Taxation, Corporate Finance and Strategy, 
Treasury, Information Technology function 
and John Keells Research. He is the Chairman 
of Nations Trust Bank PLC. Gihan holds an 
MBA from the Jesse H. Jones Graduate School 
of Management at Rice University, Houston, 
Texas. He is a Fellow member of the Chartered 
Institute of Management Accountants, UK, 
a certified management accountant of the 
Institute of Certified Management Accountants, 
Australia and has a Diploma in Marketing from 
the Chartered Institute of Marketing, UK. He 
serves as a committee member of The Ceylon 
Chamber of Commerce.
ASHROFF OMAR
Non-Executive Director
Group Chief Executive Officer of Brandix 
Apparel Limited, Ashroff Omar, has been 
instrumental in redefining the Sri Lankan 
Apparel industry for over four decades. Ashroff 
spearheads a company that comprises of 
manufacturing and product development 
facilities, offering end-to-end solutions from 
Tokyo to the US, including UK, Cambodia, Haiti, 
Sri Lanka, India and Bangladesh for some of 
the world's most renowned brands, with a 
commitment to offering 'Inspired Solutions' to 
its clientele. He is also credited with pioneering 
environmentally friendly apparel manufacture 
in the world and establishing the world's first 
LEED platinum manufacturing facility for eco-
friendly manufacture. His extensive experience 
and ability to think beyond the norm has 
secured him positions in the Boards of some 
of Sri Lanka's most respected corporates. He 
is also the Founder Chair of the Joint Apparel 
Association Forum (JAAF), the apex body of 
the Sri Lanka Apparel industry.
AMAL CABRAAL
Non-Executive Director 
Amal Cabraal is presently the Chairman of 
Ceylon Beverage Holdings PLC, Lion Brewery 
(Ceylon) PLC, CIC Feeds Group and Silvermill 
Investment Holdings (Private) Limited. He is 
a former Chairman and CEO of Unilever Sri 
Lanka and has over 4 decades of business 
experience in general management, marketing 
and sales in Sri Lanka and overseas. He is also 
the Vice-Chairman of Sunshine Holdings PLC, a 
Non-Executive Director of Hatton National Bank 
and a business advisor to a number of leading 
companies. He is a committee member of the 
Ceylon Chamber of Commerce and serves on 
the Management Committee of the Mercantile 
Services Provident Society. A Marketer by 
profession and a Fellow of the Chartered 
Institute of Marketing - UK, he holds an MBA 
from the University of Colombo and is an 
executive education alumnus of INSEAD-France.
R
R
R
H
H
A
A
A
ED
P
N
N
N
ED
P

169
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
DR. HANS WIJAYASURIYA
Non-Executive Director
In his role as the Chief Executive Officer 
– Telecommunications Business, Dr. 
Hans Wijayasuriya heads the pan-region 
Telecommunications Operations of the Axiata 
Group Bhd., spanning the markets of Malaysia, 
Indonesia, Bangladesh, Nepal, Sri Lanka and 
Cambodia. Axiata is Asia's second largest 
Telecommunications Group. Up to the year 
2016, Dr. Wijayasuriya functioned as the Group 
Chief Executive of Dialog Axiata PLC (Dialog), 
Sri Lanka's leading multi-play connectivity 
provider, and one of the highest valued 
companies on the Colombo Stock Exchange. In 
the year 2016, Dr. Wijayasuriya was honoured 
by the GSM Association as the first recipient 
of the 'Outstanding Contribution to the Asian 
Mobile Industry' Award. Dr. Wijayasuriya is 
a past Chairman of GSM Asia Pacific – the 
regional interest group of the GSM Association. 
He was also named 'Sri Lankan of the Year' by 
Sri Lanka's premier business journal, LMD in 
2008. Dr. Wijayasuriya is currently the Chairman 
of the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce, Sri 
Lanka's premier business chamber. During the 
period 2012-14, Dr. Wijayasuriya also functioned 
as the founding CEO of Axiata Digital Services – 
the Group-wide Digital Services Business of the 
Axiata Group. Dr Wijayasuriya is an alumnus of 
the University of Cambridge UK, and obtained 
his PhD from the University of Bristol UK. A 
Chartered Engineer and Fellow of the Institute 
of Engineering Technology UK, Dr. Wijayasuriya 
also holds an MBA from the University of 
Warwick.
H
P
N
Board Sub-Committees
A  Audit Committee
H  Human Resources and Compensation 
Committee
N  Nominations Committee
P  Project Risk Assessment Committee
R  Related Party Transactions Review Committee
ED  Refer Group Directory for directorships held by 
Executive Directors in other Group companies
SID Senior Independent Director
Managing Conflicts of Interests and Ensuring Independence
The Group takes necessary steps to ensure that Directors avoid situations in which they have, or 
could have, a direct or indirect interest which conflicts with, or might possibly conflict with, the 
interests of the Group.
In order to avoid such potential conflicts or biases, the Directors make a general disclosure of 
interests, as illustrated below, at appointment, at the beginning of every financial year and during 
the year as required. Such potential conflicts are reviewed by the Board from time to time to 
ensure the integrity of the Board's independence. Details of companies in which Board members 
hold Board or Board Committee membership are available with the Company Secretary for 
inspection by shareholders, on request.
Prior to 
Appointment 
Once 
Appointed 
 y
Nominees are 
requested to make 
known their various 
interests.
Directors obtain Board 
clearance prior to:
 y
Accepting a new 
position.
 y
Engaging in any 
transaction that could 
create or potentially 
create a conflict of 
interest.
All NEDs are required 
to notify the Chairman-
CEO of any changes 
to their current Board 
representations or interests 
and a new declaration is 
made annually.
Directors who have an 
interest in a matter under 
discussion: 
 y
Excuse themselves 
from deliberations on 
the subject matter. 
 y
Abstain from voting 
on the subject matter 
(abstentation from 
decisions is duly 
minuted).
The independence of all its Non-Executive Directors was reviewed on the basis of criteria 
summarised below:
Criteria for Defining Independence 
Status of Conformity of NEDs
Shareholding carrying not less than 10 per cent of 
voting rights
None of the individual EDs' or NED/IDs' 
shareholdings exceed 1 per cent.
Director of another company*
None of the NED/IDs are Directors of 
another related party company, as defined.
Income/non-cash benefit equivalent to 20 per cent of 
the Director's income
NED/ID income/cash benefits are 
less than 20 per cent of an individual 
Director's income.
Employment at JKH and/or material business 
relationship with JKH, currently or in the two years 
immediately preceding appointment as Director
None of the NED/IDs are employed or 
have been employed at JKH.
Close family member is a Director, CEO or a Key 
Management Personnel
No family member of the EDs or NED/
IDs is a Director or CEO of a related party 
company.
Has served on the Board continuously for a period exceeding 
nine years from the date of the first appointment
No NED has served on the Board for 
more than nine years.
Is employed, has a material business relationship and/
or significant shareholding in other companies*. Entails 
other companies that have significant shareholding in 
JKH and/or JKH has a business connection with
None of the NED/IDs are employed, 
have a material business relationship or 
a significant shareholding of another 
related party company as defined.
* Other companies in which a majority of the other Directors of the listed company are employed, or are Directors or 
have a significant shareholding or have a material business relationship.
No Non-Executive Independent Director has a conflict of interest as per the criteria for 
independence outlined above. 
During Board 
Meetings

170   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMENTARY
Board Meetings
During the financial year under review, there were 9 Board meetings. All pre-scheduled Board meetings are generally preceded by a Pre-Board 
meeting, which is usually held on the day prior to the formal Board Meeting. In addition to these Pre-Board meetings, the Board of Directors 
communicate, as appropriate, when issues of strategic importance requiring extensive discussions arise. Considering the unprecedented impacts of 
the pandemic on Group businesses, the Board met more frequently than usual to discuss matters in a timely manner given the volatile and dynamic 
situation, enabling greater deliberation and prompt decision-making required in these circumstances.  
The attendance at the Board meetings held during the financial year 2020/21 is given below:
Name
6/Apr/20*
14/May/20 21/May/20 29/July/20
7/Sep/20
30/Sep/20
5/Nov/20
27/Jan/21
26/Feb/21
Eligibility
Attended
K Balendra
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
G Cooray
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
N Fonseka
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
A Cabraal
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
P Perera
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
H Wijayasuriya
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
A Omar
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
*Supplemental Extraordinary Board meeting to the Extraordinary Board meeting held on 31 March 2020, to discuss the impacts and action plan for the Group on the back of the 
COVID-19 pandemic.
Board Sub-Committees
The Board has delegated some of its functions to Board Sub-Committees, while retaining final decision rights. Members of these Sub-Committees 
focus on their designated areas of responsibility and impart knowledge and oversight in areas where they have greater expertise.
The five Board Sub-Committees are as follows:
i. 
Audit Committee
ii. Human Resources and Compensation Committee
iii. Nominations Committee
iv. Related Party Transactions Review Committee
v. Project Risk Assessment Committee
The Board Sub-Committees comprise predominantly of Independent Non-Executive Directors. The membership of the five Board Sub-Committees is 
as follows;
Board Sub-Committee membership   
as at 31 March 2021
Audit  
Committee
Human 
Resources and 
Compensation 
Committee
Nominations 
Committee
Related Party 
Transactions 
Review 
Committee
Project Risk 
Assessment 
Committee
Executive
K Balendra – Chairman-CEO
G Cooray – Deputy Chairman/Group Finance Director
Senior Independent Non-Executive
N Fonseka
Independent Non-Executive
A Cabraal
A Omar
P Perera
H Wijayasuriya
 Committee Member
 Committee Chair 

171
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
Audit Committee
No of meetings - 06
COMPOSITION
SCOPE
 y
All members to be Non-Executive, Independent Directors, with at least one member 
having significant, recent and relevant financial management and accounting experience 
and a professional accounting qualification.
 y
The Chairman-CEO and the Group Finance Director are permanent invitees for all 
Committee meetings. The Group Financial Controller is also present at discussions 
relating to Group reporting.
 y
The Head of the Group Business Process Review division is the Secretary of the 
Committee.
 y
Review the quarterly and annual financial statements, including quality, transparency, 
integrity, accuracy and compliance with accounting standards, laws and regulations.
 y
Assess the adequacy and effectiveness of the internal control environment in the Group 
and ensure appropriate action is taken on the recommendation of the internal auditors.
 y
Evaluate the competence and effectiveness of the risk management systems of the 
Group and ensure robustness and effectiveness in monitoring and controlling risks.
 y
Review the adequacy and effectiveness of internal audit arrangements.
 y
Recommend the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the External Auditors 
including their remuneration and terms of engagement by assessing qualifications, 
expertise, resources and independence.
Report of the Audit Committee
Role of the Committee
The role of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities 
in relation to the integrity of the financial statements of the Company and the Group, 
the internal control and risk management systems of the Group, compliance with legal 
and regulatory requirements, the External Auditors' performance, qualifications and 
independence, and, the adequacy and performance of the Internal Audit function 
undertaken by the Group Business Process Review division (Group BPR). The scope of 
functions and responsibilities are adequately set out in the terms of reference of the 
Committee which has been approved by the Board and is reviewed annually. 
The Committee's responsibilities pertain to the Group as a whole and in discharging its 
responsibilities, the Committee places reliance on the work of other Audit Committees in the 
Group without prejudicing the independence of those Committees. However, to the extent, 
and in a manner, it considers appropriate, the Committee provides feedback to those entities 
for their consideration and necessary action. 
The effectiveness of the Committee is evaluated annually by each member of the Committee 
and the results are communicated to the Board. 
Composition of the Committee and Meetings
The members of the Audit Committee are the undersigned and the following Independent 
Non-Executive Directors:
A Cabraal
P Perera
The Head of the Group BPR division 
served as the Secretary to the Audit 
Committee.
The Audit Committee met six times during 
the financial year. The Chairman-CEO, 
the Deputy Chairman/Group Finance 
Director, Group Financial Controller and 
the External Auditors attended most 
parts of these meetings by invitation. The 
Internal Auditors carrying out outsourced 
assignments and relevant executives 
of the Company and the Group also 
attended these meetings on a needs 
basis. The Committee engaged with 
management to review key risks faced by 
the Group as a whole and the main sectors 
with a view to obtaining assurances that 
appropriate and effective risk mitigation 
strategies were in place.
The activities and views of the Committee 
were communicated to the Board of 
Directors quarterly through verbal 
briefings, and by tabling the minutes of 
the Committee's meetings.
Financial Reporting
The Audit Committee has reviewed 
and discussed the Group's quarterly 
and annual financial statements with 
management and the External Auditors 
prior to publication. The scope of the 
review included ascertaining compliance 
of the statements and disclosures with 
the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards, 
the appropriateness and changes 
in accounting policies and material 
judgemental matters. The Committee 
also discussed with the External 
Auditors and Management, any matters 
communicated to the Committee by the 
External Auditors in their reports to the 
Committee on the audit for the year.
The External Auditors were also engaged 
to conduct a limited review of the Group's 
interim financial statements for the six 
months ended 30 September 2020. The 
results of this review were discussed with 
the External Auditors and management. 
The Committee obtained independent 
input from the External Auditors 
on the effects of any new Sri Lanka 
Accounting Standards that came into 
effect for the year under review and 
satisfied themselves that any necessary 
preparatory work was carried out, to 
enable the Company to comply with 
these new standards.

172   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMENTARY
Internal Audit, Risks and Controls
The Committee reviewed the adequacy of the Internal Audit coverage for the Group and the 
Internal Audit Plans for the Group with the Head of the Group BPR division and Management. 
The Internal Audit function of most Group companies is outsourced to leading professional 
firms under the overarching direction and control of the Group BPR division.
The Group BPR division regularly reported to the Committee on the adequacy and effectiveness 
of internal controls in the Group and compliance with laws and regulations and established 
policies and procedures of the Group. Reports from the outsourced Internal Auditors on the 
operations of the Company and some of the unquoted subsidiaries of the Company were 
also reviewed by the Committee. Follow-up action taken on the recommendations of the 
outsourced Internal Auditors and any other significant follow-up matters were documented and 
presented to the Committee on a quarterly basis by the Head of Group BPR.
In the context of enhanced health and safety measures, remote working arrangements and a 
higher level of digital transactions that became necessary during the year under review due to 
the COVID-19 pandemic, the Committee paid special attention to the risk mitigation measures 
introduced by management and obtained management assurances in this regard.
The Group BPR division, drawing from the growing benefits of assurance related inputs 
provided by the digital forensic capability that is operational across the entire Group, has 
extended the scope of the project to include measures to optimise internal process efficiencies 
and behavioural responses with a view to enhancing operational controls and supporting 
governance reporting.
The Group BPR division has institutionalised a multi-pronged approach to Internal Audits and 
process reviews, to foster synergy, collaboration efficiencies between components that deliver 
governance and assurance and related services, whilst focusing on continuous improvement 
through rigorous alignment of process, technology, and people, in optimising the interplay 
between related components, invoked to handle transactional events for better outcomes.
The Sustainability and Enterprise Risk Management division reported to the Committee on the 
process of identification, evaluation and management of all significant risks faced by the Group. 
The report covered the overall risk profile of the Group for the year under review in comparison 
with that for the previous year, and the most significant risks from a Group perspective together 
with mitigatory action. The Group functions in an environment where not all risks can be 
completely eliminated and in this context the Committee reviews remedial measures taken to 
manage risks that do materialise.
Formal confirmations and assurances were obtained from the senior management of Group 
companies on a quarterly basis regarding the efficacy and status of the internal control systems 
and risk management systems and compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
The Committee reviewed the whistleblowing arrangements for the Group and had direct 
access to the Ombudsperson for the Group. The effectiveness and resource requirements of the 
Group BPR division were reviewed and discussed with management and changes were effected 
where considered necessary.
External Audit
The External Auditors' Letter of Engagement, including the scope of the audit, was reviewed 
and discussed by the Committee with the External Auditors and management prior to the 
commencement of the audit.
The External Auditors kept the Committee advised on an ongoing basis regarding matters of 
significance that were pending resolution. Before the conclusion of the Audit, the Committee 
met with the External Auditors and management to discuss all audit issues and to agree on 
their treatment. This included the discussion of formal reports from the External Auditors to 
the Committee. The Committee also met the External Auditors, without management being 
present, prior to the finalisation of the financial statements to obtain their input on specific 
issues and to ascertain whether they had 
any areas of concern relating to their 
work. No matters other than those already 
discussed with management were raised by 
the External Auditors.
The External Auditors' final management 
reports on the audit of the Company 
and Group financial statements for the 
year 2020/2021 were discussed with 
management and the auditors.
The Committee is satisfied that the 
independence of the External Auditors has 
not been impaired by any event or service 
that gives rise to a conflict of interest. Due 
consideration has been given to the nature 
of the services provided by the Auditors 
and the level of audit and non-audit 
fees received by the Auditors from the 
John Keells Group. The Committee also 
reviewed the arrangements made by the 
Auditors to maintain their independence 
and confirmation has been received from 
the Auditors of their compliance with 
the independence guidance given in the 
Code of Ethics of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of Sri Lanka. 
The performance of the External Auditors 
has been evaluated with the aid of a formal 
assessment process with input provided by 
the senior management of the Company 
and the Committee has recommended 
to the Board that Ernst & Young be re-
appointed as the Lead/Consolidation 
Auditor of the Group for the financial year 
ending 31 March 2022, subject to approval 
by the shareholders at the Annual General 
Meeting. 
N Fonseka
Chairman of the Audit Committee
24 May 2021

173
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
Human Resources and Compensation Committee 
No of meetings - 01
COMPOSITION
SCOPE
 y
Committee to comprise exclusively of Non-Executive Directors, a majority of whom shall 
be independent.
 y
The Chairman of the Committee must be Non-Executive Director.
 y
The Chairman-CEO and Group Finance Director are present at all Committee meetings unless 
the Chairman-CEO or Executive Director remuneration is under discussion respectively.
 y
The Deputy Chairman/Group Finance Director is the Secretary of the Committee.
 y
Review and recommend overall remuneration philosophy, strategy, policies and practices 
and performance-based pay plans for the Group.
 y
Determine and agree with the Board a framework for the remuneration of the 
Chairman and Executive Directors based on performance targets, benchmark principles, 
performance related pay schemes, industry trends and past remuneration.
 y
Succession planning of Key Management Personnel.
 y
Determining compensation of Non-Executive Directors is not under the scope of this 
Committee.
As noted earlier, considering the 
unprecedented impacts of the pandemic 
on Group businesses, the Board met more 
frequently than usual to discuss matters in a 
timely manner given the volatile and dynamic 
situation, enabling greater deliberation and 
prompt decision-making required in these 
circumstances. Most discussions under 
the purview of the Human Resources and 
Compensation Committee Sub-Committee 
were also deliberated at a Board level.
Director Remuneration
Executive Director Remuneration
The Human Resources and Compensation 
Committee is responsible for determining the 
compensation of the Chairman-CEO and the 
Deputy Chairman/Group Finance Director, 
both Executive Directors of the Group. 
The Human Resources and Compensation 
Committee operates in conformity with 
applicable rules and regulations. 
A significant proportion of Executive Director 
remuneration is variable. The variability is 
linked to the peer adjusted consolidated 
Group bottom line and expected returns 
on shareholder funds. Further, the Human 
Resources and Compensation Committee 
consults the Chairman-CEO about any proposals 
relating to the Executive Director remuneration, 
other than that of the Chairman-CEO.
During the year, ESOPs, valued using a 
binomial pricing model, were granted to 
the Executive Directors as well as to all other 
eligible employees 
Excluding ESOPs granted, the total aggregate 
remuneration paid to Executive Directors 
for the year under review was Rs.104 million 
[2019/20: Rs.119 million] of which Rs.45 million 
[2019/20: Rs.39 million] was the variable 
portion linked to the performance benchmark 
as described above and Rs.59 million [2019/20: 
Rs.80 million] was the fixed remuneration. 
Non-Executive Director Remuneration
The compensation of Non-Executive Directors 
was determined in reference to fees paid to 
other Non-Executive Directors of comparable 
companies, and adjusted, where necessary, 
in keeping with the complexity of the Group. 
Non-Executive Directors were paid additional 
fees for either chairing or being a member 
of a Sub-Committee and did not receive 
any performance/incentive payments/share 
option plans. 
Total aggregate of Non-Executive Director 
remuneration for the year was Rs.11 million 
[2019/20: Rs.18 million].
Report of the Human Resources and Compensation Committee 
The Committee determined the remuneration of the Executive Directors including the 
Chairman-CEO in terms of the methodology set out by the Board, upon an evaluation of 
their performance by the Non-Executive Directors. The evaluation of the members of the 
Group Executive Committee (GEC) were considered by the Committee and remuneration 
was determined based on performance, market comparators for similar positions and in 
accordance with the Company's Compensation and Benefits policy. 
A report from the Chairman of the Human Resources and Compensation Committee 
continues to be a standing agenda item at the quarterly Board meetings. The Chairman of 
the Committee reports on the developments which have taken place since the last Board 
meeting, if any, and updates the Board on various matters, as relevant and requested. 
In light of the COVID-19 impact on the businesses and its people, the Group developed and 
implemented a Working Arrangement Protocol which set out the working practices to be 
followed by Group employees in terms of maintaining their health and safety. The Group 
also implemented a new Agile Working Policy, with the identification of agile roles across all 
sectors. To mitigate the financial impact of the pandemic on the Group, the employees and 
the members of the GEC were subject to salary reductions for a limited period of time.
The Committee wishes to report that the Company has complied with the Companies Act 
in relation to remuneration of Directors. The annual performance appraisal scheme, the 
calculation of short-term incentives, and the award of ESOPs were executed in accordance 
with the approvals given by the Board, based on discussions conducted between the 
Committee and the Management. 
A Cabraal 
Chairman of the Human Resources and Compensation Committee
20 May 2021

174   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
Nominations Committee 
No of meetings - 02
Related Party Transactions Review Committee  
No of meetings - 04
COMPOSITION
COMPOSITION
SCOPE
SCOPE
 y
Majority of the members of the Committee shall be Non-Executive Directors 
together with the Chairman-CEO.
 y
The Chairman of the Committee must be an Independent Non-Executive Director.
 y
The Secretary to the Board is the Secretary of the Committee.
 y
The Chairman must be a Non-Executive Director.
 y
May include at least one Executive Director.
 y
Assess the skills required on the Board given the needs of the businesses.
 y
From time to time assess the extent to which the required skills are represented at 
the Board.
 y
Prepare a clear description of the role and capabilities required for a particular 
appointment.
 y
Identify and recommend suitable candidates for appointments to the Board.
 y
Ensure, on appointment to Board, Non-Executive Directors receive a formal letter 
of appointment specifying clear expectations in terms of time commitment, 
involvement outside of the formal Board meetings, participation in Committees, 
amongst others.
 y
Ensure that every appointee undergoes an induction to the Group.
 y
The appointment of the Chairperson and Executive Directors is a collective 
decision of the Board.
 y
The Group has broadened the scope of the Committee to include senior 
decision makers in the list of key management personnel, whose transactions 
with Group companies also get reviewed by the Committee, in addition to the 
requisitions of the CSE.
 y
Develop and recommend for adoption by the Board of Directors of JKH and its 
listed subsidiaries, a Related Party Transaction Policy which is consistent with the 
operating model and the delegated decision rights of the Group.
 y
Update the Board on related party transactions of each of the listed companies 
of the Group on a quarterly basis.
 y
Define and establish the threshold values for each of the subject listed 
companies in setting a benchmark for related party transactions, related 
party transactions which have to be pre-approved by the Board, related party 
transactions which require to be reviewed annually and similar issues relating to 
listed companies.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMENTARY
Report of the Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee as at 31 March 2021, 
consisted of the following: 
A Omar (Chairman)
K Balendra
P Perera
H Wijayasuriya 
The self-review of the mandate of the Committee 
reaffirmed that it exists to: 
 y
Recommend to the Board the process of 
selecting the Chairman and Deputy Chairman.
 y
Identify suitable persons who could be 
considered for appointment to the Board of 
JKH PLC and other Listed Companies in the 
Group, as Non-Executive Directors. 
 y
Make recommendation on matters referred to 
it by the Board. 
During the reporting period, the following 
appointments were made consequent to approval 
obtained from the Committee:
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC:
 y
Mr. Kaminda Charitha Subasinghe
 y
Ms. Nelindra Fernando
Keells Food Products PLC:
 y
Ms. Nelindra Fernando
John Keells PLC:
 y
Mr. Ahamed Zafir Hashim 
 y
Ms. Kamani Devika Weerasinghe
Tea Smallholder Factories PLC:
 y
Mr. Ahamed Zafir Hashim
Trans Asia Hotels PLC:
 y
Mr. Suresh Rajendra
 y
Mr. Changa Lashantha Poojitha Gunawardane
Asian Hotels and Properties PLC:
 y
Mr. Changa Lashantha Poojitha Gunawardane
John Keells Hotels PLC:
 y
Mr. Suresh Rajendra 
 y
Mr. Mikael Roland Svensson
Union Assurance PLC:
 y
Mr. Daminda Prabhath Gamlath
 y
Mr. Warnage Malinga De Fonseka 
Arsakularatne
The Committee continues to work with the 
Board on reviewing its skills mix, based on the 
immediate and emerging needs. Further, the 
Committee discusses with the Board the outputs 
of the Annual JKH Board Evaluation. 
A Omar 
Chairman of the Nominations Committee 
20 May 2021

175
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
COMPOSITION
SCOPE
 y
Should comprise of a minimum of four Directors.
 y
Must include the Chairman-CEO and Group Finance Director.
 y
Must include two Non-Executive Directors.
 y
The Chairman must be a Non-Executive Director.
 y
Review and assess risks associated with large-scale investments and the mitigatory plans 
thereto, if mitigation is possible, and identify risks that cannot be mitigated.
 y
Ensure stakeholder interests are aligned, as applicable, in making this investment decision.
 y
Where appropriate, obtain specialised expertise from external sources to evaluate risks, in 
consultation with the Group Finance Director.
 y
Recommend to the Board, necessary action required, to mitigate risks that are identified 
in the course of evaluating a project in order to ensure that those risks are captured by 
the Group Risk Matrix for monitoring and mitigation.
Note that the Committee shall convene only when there is a need to transact in business as per the terms of its 
mandate.
Report of the Related Party Transactions Review Committee
The following Directors served as members of the Committee during the financial year: 
P Perera (Chairperson)  
A Cabraal
N Fonseka 
The Chairman, Deputy Chairman/Group Finance Director, and Group Financial Controller 
attended meetings by invitation. The Head of Group Business Process Review served as the 
Secretary to the Committee. 
The objective of the Committee is to exercise oversight on behalf of the Board of John Keells 
Holdings PLC and its listed Subsidiaries, to ensure compliance with the Code on Related Party 
Transactions, as issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka ('The Code') and 
with the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE). The Committee has also adopted 
best practice as recommended by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka.
The Committee in discharging its functions primarily relied on processes that were validated 
from time to time and periodic reporting by the relevant entities and Key Management 
Personnel (KMP) with a view to ensuring that: 
 y
there is compliance with 'the Code' and Listing Rules of the CSE 
 y
shareholder interests are protected; and 
 y
fairness and transparency are maintained. 
The Committee reviewed and pre-approved all proposed non-recurrent Related Party 
Transactions (RPTs) of the parent, John Keells Holdings PLC, and all its listed subsidiaries, 
namely: John Keells PLC, Tea Smallholder Factories PLC, Asian Hotels and Properties PLC, 
Trans Asia Hotels PLC, John Keells Hotels PLC, Ceylon Cold Stores PLC, Keells Food Products 
PLC, and Union Assurance PLC. Recurrent RPTs were reviewed annually by the Committee. 
Furthermore, guidelines were introduced to facilitate requisite disclosures and assurances by 
senior management of the aforementioned listed companies, in relation to Recurrent RPTs so 
as to validate compliance with sec 9.5(a) of the listing rules and thus exclusion from review and 
pre-approval by the Committee. 
Other significant transactions of non-listed 
subsidiaries were also presented to the 
Committee for information.  
In addition to the Directors, all Presidents, 
Executive Vice Presidents, Chief Executive 
Officers, Chief Financial Officers and Financial 
Controllers of respective companies/sectors 
have been designated as KMPs in order to 
increase transparency and enhance good 
governance. Annual disclosures from all KMPs 
setting out any RPTs they were associated 
with, if any, were obtained and reviewed by 
the Committee. 
The Committee held four meetings during the 
financial year. Information on the attendance 
at these meetings by the members of the 
Committee is given alongside. The activities 
and views of the Committee have been 
communicated to the Board of Directors, 
quarterly, through verbal briefings, and by tabling 
the minutes of the Committee's meetings. 
P Perera 
Chairperson of the Related Party Transactions 
Review Committee   
20 May 2021
The following Directors served as 
members of the Committee during the 
financial year:
H Wijayasuriya (Chairman)
K Balendra
G Cooray
P Perera
The Project Risk Assessment Committee 
was established with the purpose 
of further augmenting the Group's 
Investment Evaluation Framework. 
The Committee provides the Board 
with enhanced illumination of Risk 
perspectives with respect to large-
scale new investments, and also assists 
the Board in assessing the potential 
impact of risks associated with such 
investments. Investments which are 
referred to the Committee are those 
which exceed a board-agreed threshold 
Report of the Project Risk Assessment 
Committee 
Project Risk Assessment Committee  

176   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
OUTLOOK AND EMERGING 
CHALLENGES
The need for maintaining a well-grounded 
corporate governance framework has 
become vital in operating in an environment 
of dynamic corporate change and global 
volatility. A strong governance mechanism 
is pivotal in enhancing accountability to 
diverse stakeholders, ensuring corporate fair-
mindedness and creating sustainable value. 
In this light, the Group will continue to stay 
abreast of governance best practice and assess 
its level of preparedness and its capability in 
meeting these evolving external challenges.
In the wake of corporate disintegrations, 
the pursuit of continuous improvement in 
governance, emphasis on environmental and 
social considerations and a call for increased 
accountability and transparency continue 
to influence and shape the role of board 
governance aspects. The primary areas of 
focus and challenges, amongst many others, 
being recurrently addressed by JKH are 
detailed in the ensuing section. 
Board Diversity
JKH acknowledges the need for diversity in Boards and is conscious of the need to attract 
appropriately skilled Directors who reflect the values and requirements of its businesses and vision. 
Whilst the Group is of the view that diversity ranging across demographic attributes, backgrounds, 
experiences and social networks improve a Board's understanding of its vast pool of stakeholders, 
providing diverse connections with the external environment and aiding the Group in addressing 
stakeholders' claims in a more responsive manner, JKH is also conscious of the need to maintain a 
strong culture of meritocracy, ensuring that Board diversity does not come at the expense of Board 
effectiveness. In this regard, every effort will be made to attract suitably qualified personnel from 
diverse demographics and backgrounds. 
In furtherance of this initiatives, and to amplify the Group's emphasis on creating an inclusive, 
diverse and equitable work environment, headway was made on the gender diversity front, with 
four women being appointed to the different Boards across Group companies during the year 
under review. 
Board Independence
There is increased emphasis on board independence by stakeholders, stock exchanges and 
regulatory bodies worldwide. In order for a Board to be effective, JKH is of the view that companies 
must take steps, both in their structures and in their nominating procedures, to ensure fostering of 
independent decision-making and mitigating potential conflicts of interest which may arise.
The criteria for defining independence of boards vary significantly across countries. JKH is of the 
view that the intended vision of achieving improved governance and higher independence 
can be achieved through various checks and balances, whilst not compromising on the 
underlying operating model of a corporate. These checks and balances may entail, among others, 
establishment of various assurance mechanisms and the use of systematic and comprehensive 
board evaluation processes and independent director led engagement. To this end, JKH will 
continue to place emphasis on further augmenting the Board's independence whilst striking a 
balance with the Group's operating model, which addresses the complexities and intricacies of a 
diversified conglomerate setting. 
Further to the public consultation in 2019, the Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka (SEC) 
published a new public consultation in April 2021 seeking views to strengthen corporate governance 
rules of listed entities. This entailed, amongst others, a proposal to segregate the roles of the 
Chairperson and CEO being performed by the same person. The SEC has indicated that any measures 
towards the segregation of roles will only be taken post detailed discussion and broad consensus 
amongst the relevant stakeholders. The Group is of the view that the segregation of the roles of 
Chairman and CEO should be a voluntary compliance requirement, especially if concerns associated 
with the combined role are counter-balanced by increased independence and transparency vis-à-vis 
appointment of a senior independent director, having a majority of independent directors, inclusion 
of an independent director led committee for director nominations and a well-defined process for 
the appointment of directors. Studies have not clearly proven that segregation of the roles lead to 
better performance or governance, particularly if the counterbalances stated before are in place. 
Another key aspect which needs to be considered is the local context and an understanding of 
the operating models and corporate structures when implementing such changes. JKH, being a 
diversified conglomerate, has complexities which require a multi-faceted understanding of each of its 
businesses which ideally requires an executive role.  
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMENTARY
in terms of quantum of investment and/
or potential impact to the Group. The 
Committee accordingly provides early-
stage recommendations to the Board 
with respect to the extent of risk and 
adequacy of mitigation strategies. 
During the year under review, given the 
unprecedented impact of the COVID-19 
pandemic on Group businesses, the 
Board met more frequently than usual. 
The increased frequency of board 
meetings provided the opportunity for 
discussions related to investments and 
risk assessments to be conducted within 
Board Meeting agendas. As such, the 
Committee did not have a requirement 
to convene separately, during the year 
under review.
H Wijayasuriya
Chairman of the Project Risk Assessment 
Committee
20 May 2021
To amplify the Group's emphasis on creating an inclusive, 
diverse and equitable work environment, headway was 
made on the gender diversity front, with four women being 
appointed to the different Boards across Group companies 
during the year under review.
H Wijayasuriya

177
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
Increasing Emphasis on Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Aspects
ESG analysis and investing continue to gain traction amongst Governments, investment 
professionals and high net worth investors, given the aim of reducing negligent and irresponsible 
corporate behaviour that may have an adverse impact on the environment, harm human rights 
and foster corruption and bribery, among others, and disintegrate the corporate in the long-term. 
The unprecedented nature of the COVID-19 pandemic and its impacts globally, have accelerated 
and intensified such discussions on the interlinkages between sustainability considerations and 
financial performance.
JKH is of the view that emphasis on ESG fosters a 360-degree analysis of performance and enables 
a sustainable business model, which can derive value to all stakeholders. Various measures have 
been, and are, in place, to ensure a holistic view of performance including managing scarce 
natural resources, enhancing the well-being of all stakeholders and ensuring effective governance 
mechanisms. Such metrics are revisited regularly during decision-making. Initiatives such as the 
launch of Sustainability Goals 2025, roll out of the Gender Policy and strengthening of internal 
controls are implemented with a view of ensuring a strong ESG framework. The Group will stay 
abreast of developments in this regard and continue to integrate ESG elements with business 
strategy, operations and in reporting. 
Continual Strengthening of Internal Controls 
Augmenting transactional and financial internal controls with operational aspects, in line 
with international best practice, remains a medium-term priority for the Group. Continuous 
strengthening of internal controls through a streamlined process that optimises and facilitates 
process audit information, life cycle management and related processes are expected to: 
 y
eliminate inefficiencies inherent in manual processes.
 y
provide a platform based on process enforcement.
 y
enable management follow-up based on centrally held data in a compliance repository.
 y
identify trends, action taken, effectiveness and opportunities for process improvement by 
analysing movement of the compliance posture.
Digital Oversight and Cyber Security
The rapidly advancing nature of technology and the continual integration of the Group's 
operations with technological progress has resulted in increased vulnerability for the Group from a 
digital standpoint. As a result, the Board places significant emphasis on ensuring that the Group's 
soft and hard infrastructure is designed in a manner, and adequate, to deal with a potential breach. 
Data protection and cyber security are regularly addressed during the Risk Management and Audit 
Committee meetings and periodically discussed at a Board level.
Data Protection, Information Management and Adoption
The presence of continuously evolving IT infrastructure and platforms to meet requirements of 
day-to-day business, augured well for the Group, particularly given restrictions in movement 
and social distancing measures in light of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Group witnessed an 
acceleration of digitisation and better user adoption. Despite this, adoption of such systems and 
features remain at a relatively early stage across the Group and is a key focus area for the Group.    
Given the emergence of regulations such as European Union General Data Protection Regulation 
(GDPR) and the proposed Sri Lankan data protection legislation, data security, integrity and 
information management will be pivotal. In addition to this, the Group's initiatives on advanced 
data analytics also necessitate an established governance framework to manage the flow of 
data. To this end, the Group will continue to strengthen its data governance structure to ensure 
ownership and accountability of clearly articulated data governance policies and processes and 
Group-wide data quality standards. 
Greater Employee Involvement in 
Governance
Whilst all necessary compliance and 
assurance frameworks are believed to be in 
place, JKH recognises the pivotal role played 
by employees in reinforcing an effective 
governance system across the Group. JKH 
will continue to encourage greater employee 
participation through:
 y
a further strengthened continuous 
performance management process, 
which envisages continuous feedback 
and enhanced engagement via the newly 
implemented employee information 
systems.
 y
engagement and empowerment via 
greater delegation of authority.
 y
increased communication and 
collaboration.
 y
adoption of differentiated means of 
communication based on the age 
dynamics of employee segments.
JKH is of the view that 
emphasis on ESG fosters 
a 360-degree analysis of 
performance and enables a 
sustainable business model, 
which can derive value to 
all stakeholders. Various 
measures have been, and 
are, in place, to ensure a 
holistic view of performance 
including managing scarce 
natural resources, enhancing 
the well-being of all 
stakeholders and ensuring 
effective governance 
mechanisms.

178   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMENTARY
Statement of Compliance under Section 7.6 of the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) on Annual Report 
Disclosure
MANDATORY PROVISIONS - FULLY COMPLIANT
Rule
Compliance 
Status
Reference (within the 
Report)
(i)
Names of persons who were Directors of the Entity 
Yes
Corporate Governance 
Commentary
(ii)
Principal activities of the entity and its subsidiaries during the year, and any changes therein
Yes
Management Discussion 
and Analysis
(iii)
The names and the number of shares held by the 20 largest holders of voting and non-voting 
shares and the percentage of such shares held
Yes
Share Information
(iv)
The float adjusted market capitalisation, public holding percentage (%), number of public 
shareholders and under which option the Listed Entity complies with the Minimum Public 
Holding requirement
Yes
(v)
A statement of each Director's holding and Chief Executive Officer's holding in shares of the 
Entity at the beginning and end of each financial year
Yes
(vi)
Information pertaining to material foreseeable risk factors of the Entity
Yes
Risk, Opportunities and 
Internal Controls
(vii)
Details of material issues pertaining to employees and industrial relations of the Entity
Yes
Sustainability Integration, 
Stakeholder Engagement 
and Materiality 
(viii)
Extents, locations, valuations and the number of buildings of the Entity's land holdings and 
investment properties
Yes
Group Real Estate Portfolio
(ix)
Number of shares representing the Entity's stated capital
Yes
Share Information
(x)
A distribution schedule of the number of holders in each class of equity securities, and the 
percentage of their total holdings
Yes
(xi)
Financial ratios and market price information
Yes
(xii)
Significant changes in the Company's or its subsidiaries' fixed assets, and the market value of 
land, if the value differs substantially from the book value as at the end of the year
Yes
Notes to the Financial 
Statements
(xiii)
Details of funds raised through a public issue, rights issue and a private placement during the 
year
Yes
Share Information
(xiv)
Information in respect of Employee Share Ownership or Stock Option Schemes
Yes
(xv)
Disclosures pertaining to Corporate Governance practices in terms of Rules 7.10.3, 7.10.5 c. 
and 7.10.6 c. of Section 7 of the Listing Rules
Yes
Corporate Governance 
Commentary/Note 44 of 
the Notes to the Financial 
Statements
(xvi)
Related Party transactions exceeding 10 per cent of the equity or 5 per cent of the total assets 
of the Entity as per audited financial statements, whichever is lower
Yes
Statement of Compliance under Section 7.10 of the Listing Rules of the CSE on Corporate Governance
MANDATORY PROVISIONS - FULLY COMPLIANT
CSE Rule
Compliance 
Status
JKH Action / Reference (within the Report)
7.10 Compliance
a./b./c.
Compliance with Corporate Governance Rules
Yes
The Group is in compliance with the Corporate Governance 
Rules and any deviations are explained where applicable.
7.10.1 Non-Executive Directors (NED)
a./b./c.
At least 2 members or 1/3 of the Board, whichever is 
higher should be NEDs
Yes
5 out of 7 Board members are NEDs. The Group is conscious of 
the need to maintain an appropriate mix of skills and experience 
on the Board and to refresh progressively its composition over 
time.

179
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
CSE Rule
Compliance 
Status
JKH Action / Reference (within the Report)
7.10.2 Independent Directors
a.
2 or 1/3 of NEDs, whichever is higher shall be 
'independent'
Yes
All NEDs are Independent.
b.
Each NED to submit a signed and dated declaration 
of his/her independence or non-independence
Yes
Independence of the Directors has been determined in 
accordance with CSE Listing Rules and the 5 Independent NEDs 
have submitted signed confirmation of their independence.
7.10.3 Disclosures relating to Directors
a./b.
Board shall annually determine the independence or 
otherwise of NEDs
Yes
All Independent NEDs have submitted declarations as to their 
independence.
c.
A brief resume of each Director should be included 
in the annual report including the directors' 
experience
Yes
Corporate Governance Commentary 
d.
Provide a resume of new Directors appointed to the 
Board along with details
Yes
Detailed resumes of the new Independent NEDs appointed 
during the financial year were submitted to the CSE. It is noted 
that there was an appointment to the Board, during the year 
under review.
7.10.4 Criteria for defining independence
a. to h.
Requirements for meeting the criteria to be an 
Independent Director
Yes
Corporate Governance Commentary
7.10.5 Remuneration Committee
a.1
Remuneration Committee shall comprise of NEDs, a 
majority of whom will be independent
Yes
The Human Resources and Compensation Committee 
(equivalent of the Remuneration Committee with a wider scope) 
only comprises of Independent NEDs.
a.2
One NED shall be appointed as Chairman of the 
Committee by the Board of Directors
Yes
The Senior Independent NED is the Chairman of the Committee.
b.
Remuneration Committee shall recommend the 
remuneration of the CEO and the Executive Directors
Yes
The remuneration of the Chairman-CEO and the Executive 
Directors is determined as per the remuneration principles of 
the Group and recommended by the Human Resources and 
Compensation Committee.
c.1
Names of Remuneration Committee members
Yes
Refer Board Committees section of the Annual Report.
c.2
Statement of Remuneration policy
Yes
Refer Director Remuneration section. 
c.3
Aggregate remuneration paid to EDs and NEDs
Yes
Refer Director Remuneration section.
7.10.6 Audit Committee
a.1
Audit Committee (AC) shall comprise of NEDs, a 
majority of whom should be independent
Yes
The Audit Committee comprises only of Independent NEDs.
a.2
A NED shall be the Chairman of the committee
Yes
Chairman of the Audit Committee is an Independent NED.
a.3
CEO and CFO should attend AC meetings
Yes
The Chairman-CEO, Group Finance Director, Group Financial 
Controller and the External Auditors attended most parts of the 
AC meetings by invitation.
a.4
The Chairman of the AC or one member should be 
a member of a recognised professional accounting 
body
Yes
The Chairman of the AC is a member of a recognised 
professional accounting body.
b.
Functions of the AC 
Yes
The AC carries out all the functions prescribed in this section.
b.1
Overseeing of the preparation, presentation and 
adequacy of disclosures in the financial statements in 
accordance with SLFRS/LKAS
Yes
The AC assists the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities 
for the integrity of the financial statements of the Company and 
the Group.
b.2
Overseeing the compliance with financial reporting 
requirements, information requirements as per laws 
and regulations
Yes
The AC has the overall responsibility for overseeing the 
preparation of financial statements in accordance with the laws 
and regulations of the country and also recommending to the 
Board, on the adoption of best accounting policies

180   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMENTARY
CSE Rule
Compliance 
Status
JKH Action / Reference (within the Report)
b.3
Overseeing the process to ensure the internal and 
risk management controls, are adequate, to meet the 
requirements of the SLFRS/LKAS
Yes
The AC assesses the role and the effectiveness of the Group 
Business Process Review division which is largely responsible for 
internal control and risk management.
b.4
Assessment of the independence and performance 
of the Entity's External Auditors
Yes
The AC assesses the external auditor's performance, 
qualifications and independence.
b.5
Make recommendations to the Board pertaining to 
External Auditors
Yes
The Committee is responsible for recommending the 
appointment, re-appointment, removal of External Auditors 
and also providing recommendations on the remuneration and 
terms of Engagement.
c.1
Names of the Audit Committee members shall be 
disclosed
Yes
Refer Board Committees section.
c.2
Audit Committee shall make a determination of the 
independence of the external auditors
Yes
Refer Report of the Audit Committee.
c.3
Report on the manner in which Audit Committee 
carried out its functions.
Yes
Refer Report of the Audit Committee.
Statement of Compliance under Section 9.3.2 of the Listing Rules of the CSE on Corporate Governance
MANDATORY PROVISIONS - FULLY COMPLIANT
Rule
Compliance 
Status
Reference (within the Report)
(a)
Details pertaining to Non-Recurrent Related Party Transactions
Yes
Notes to the Financial Statements
(b)
Details pertaining to Recurrent Related Party Transactions
Yes
Notes to the Financial Statements
(c)
Report of the Related Party Transactions Review Committee
Yes
Refer Report of the Related Party Transactions 
Review Committee.
(d)
Declaration by the Board of Directors as an affirmative statement of 
compliance with the rules pertaining to RPT, or a negative statement 
otherwise
Yes
Annual Report of the Board of Directors
Statement of Compliance pertaining to Companies Act No. 7 of 2007
MANDATORY PROVISIONS - FULLY COMPLIANT
Rule
Compliance 
Status
Reference (within the Report)
168 (1) (a)
The nature of the business together with any change thereof 
Yes
Group Directory 
168 (1) (b)
Signed financial statements of the Group and the Company 
Yes
Financial Statements  
168 (1) (c)
Auditors' Report on financial statements 
Yes
Independent Auditors' Report  
168 (1) (d)
Accounting policies and any changes therein
Yes
Notes to the Financial Statements
168 (1) (e)
Particulars of the entries made in the Interests Register 
Yes
Annual Report of the Board of Directors 
168 (1) (f)
Remuneration and other benefits paid to Directors of the Company 
Yes
Notes to the Financial Statements 
168 (1) (g)
Corporate donations made by the Company 
Yes
Notes to the Financial Statements 
168 (1) (h)
Information on the Directorate of the Company and its subsidiaries 
during and at the end of the accounting period
Yes
Group Directory 
168 (1) (i)
Amounts paid/payable to the External Auditor as audit fees and fees 
for other services rendered 
Yes
Notes to the Financial Statements
168 (1) (j)
Auditors' relationship or any interest with the Company and its 
Subsidiaries
Yes
Report of the Audit Committee / Financial 
Statements 
168 (1) (k)
Acknowledgement of the contents of this Report and signatures on 
behalf of the Board
Yes
Financial Statements / Annual Report of the 
Board of Directors 

181
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
SUSTAINABILITY INTEGRATION, STAKEHOLDER 
ENGAGEMENT AND MATERIALITY
The following section provides an overview of the 
Group's approach and framework towards sustainable 
development and long-term value creation.
SUSTAINABILITY INTEGRATION
Our Approach
The Group has, over the years, made it a 
priority to ensure that sustainable practices 
are embedded into all operations, recognising 
that social responsibility and environmental 
stewardship are inseparable from its financial 
objectives. 
The Group's sustainability approach is based 
on four strategic pillars.
Framework
Policies
Processes
Technology
Economic
Ethical business, 
Economic Value 
Added and 
Employment 
creation 
People
Caring for our 
employees and 
providing a safe 
and diverse 
workplace
Social
Creating mutually 
beneficial 
relationships and 
positive impacts 
Environment
Environmental 
stewardship and 
responsibility 
Sustainability Integration
Identification of 
Risks, Opportunities 
and Stakeholder 
Concerns
Sustainability 
Initiatives to manage 
areas of concern and 
External Reporting
IT Platform for 
providing Management 
Information and Variance 
Control
Sustainability Policy 
and Management 
Framework
Internal and External 
Sustainability 
Assurance
Sustainability 
Integration
GROUP SUSTAINABILITY POLICY
The Group's Sustainability Policy describes its sustainability priorities, expectations and lays the 
foundation on which the Group's management framework is developed and implemented. This 
incorporates a holistic approach encompassing the environment, its workforce and society under 
a framework of operating in line with the highest standards of governance, compliance and 
corporate best practice. Coupled with transparent and open communications with stakeholders, 
the Group sustainability policy positions the Group to achieve long-term value creation. 
The Group's Sustainability policy can be found on the Corporate Website.
Refer the Governance section on the Corporate Website for a detailed discussion on the Group's sustainability 
management framework, sustainability integration process and sustainability organisational structure.
In striving to achieve a balance between detailing its Sustainability efforts, coupled with the need to 
strike a balance between the principles of conciseness and completeness in Integrated Reporting, the 
Group has used a variety of reporting formats to meet diverse stakeholder requirements. Whilst the 
section which follows discusses the key highlights for the year under review, the Corporate Website 
contains a detailed discussion of Sustainability Integration and Stakeholder Engagement.

182   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
SCOPE & BOUNDARY
87 legal entities of the John Keells Group 
create the financial reporting boundary of 
the Annual Report 2021/21 of which 48 
companies have been listed in the Group 
Directory of the Annual Report as part 
of the sustainability reporting boundary. 
Within these, any other exclusions made 
have been clearly explained under the 
relevant sustainability topics. This year, 
'Cinnamon Bentota Beach', 'Cinnamon 
Velifushi Maldives' and 15 new 'Keells' 
outlets were included in the reporting 
scope during the year under review.
Sustainability Disclosures
 y
A brief discussion of the standards, principles, information verification and assurance is included in the Introduction to the Report section of this report 
while a detailed discussion is found under the Governance section on the Corporate Website. 
 y
Details of measurement techniques, methodologies, assumptions and estimations are included in the relevant 'Disclosures of Management 
Approach' section and can be found online at www.keells.com/sustainability-and-csr.  
 y
Reference to specific information and disclosures required by the GRI Standards can be found through the GRI context index.
Engagement of Significant Stakeholders
The Group defines significant stakeholders as those who have significant influence over or who are significantly affected by the Group's operations.  
Numerous platforms have been established for the continuous dialogue with the Group's stakeholders and the following table summarises the 
frequencies of engagement with significant stakeholders:
Frequency
Stakeholder
Annually
Bi-annually
Quarterly
Ongoing
Monthly
One-off
Regularly
Customers
Employees
Community
Institutional investors, fund managers, 
analysts, multilateral lenders
Government, Government institutions and 
departments
Legal and regulatory bodies
Business partners, principals, suppliers
Society, media, pressure groups, NGOs, 
environmental groups
Industry peers and competition
Building on the foundations of the most recent quantitative and qualitative stakeholder 
engagements, the Group continuously monitors key channels of communication to ascertain 
key concerns of stakeholders and ensure its policies and processes prioritise issues material to 
these groups.
This year, challenges raised by the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic have highlighted 
sustainability concerns specifically related to health and safety, product quality and 
responsiveness, areas that the Group has tackled through stringent health and safety 
and sanitisation practices for its employees, supply chain, customers, as well as through 
responsiveness to customer demands alongside new and rapidly changing requirements of 
stakeholders. In addition, the Group has strived to ensure that its focus on its supply chain 
and community-based engagements continued despite difficulties due to the pandemic.
KEY SUSTAINABILITY CONCERNS
The Group has made it a priority to ensure that sustainable 
practices are embedded into all operations.
Refer the Governance section of the 
Corporate Website for further details on 
the report content, and any exclusions 
and changes to the reporting scope and 
boundary during the year.
For details on expectations of significant stakeholders and methods of engagement used by the Group, please 
refer the Governance section on the Corporate Website.
Refer the Governance section on the Corporate Website for a detailed discussion on key  
sustainability concerns.
SUSTAINABILITY INTEGRATION, STAKEHOLDER 
ENGAGEMENT AND MATERIALITY

183
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
Identification of Material Topics
The Group maps topics that of are concern to internal and external stakeholders to ascertain criticality and priority for focus and disclosure. This year 
did not see significant changes in the list of material topics and topic boundaries compared to previous reporting periods.
The Governance section of the Corporate Website details the material sustainability concerns of the Group's 
significant internal and external stakeholders.
In defining report content, the Group prioritises material impacts based on their relative importance to internal and external stakeholders which is 
summarised below. 
Market Presence
Indirect Economic Impact
Taxation
Economic Performance
Local Purchasing
Employment
Equal Pay
Labour Relations
Labour Grievances
Training
Occupational Health & Safety
Supplier Assessment Labour 
Energy
Water
Waste
Effluents
Emissions
Env. Compliance
Biodiversity
Materials
Transportation Impacts
Env. Conservation
Products & Services Impacts
Env. Grievances
Supplier Assessment - Environment
Responsible Advertising
Labelling
Product Compliance
Customer Health & Safety
Customer Privacy
Overall Compliance
Local Community
Anti Corruption
Public Policy
Anti Competitive Behaviour
Supplier Assessment - Social 
Forced Labour
Child Labour
Non - Discrimination
Freedom of Association
Supplier Assessments - Human Rights 
Security Practices
Indigenous Rights
Human Rights Assessment
Human Rights Grievances
Investments
MATERIAL TOPICS
Low
High
Diversity & Equal Opportunity
Impact to External Stakeholders
Impact to Internal Stakeholders
High
A detailed description of the strategies and approach adopted by the Group in managing its material topics are 
contained in the management approach disclosures section hosted on the Group website  
https://www.keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_Disclosures_2020_21.pdf

184   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
RISKS, OPPORTUNITIES AND 
INTERNAL CONTROLS
Enterprise Risk Management within the Group is based on a 
holistic approach, with integrated processes incorporating 
good governance and sustainable development alongside 
effective risk management practices.
ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
The Group has in place an enterprise-wide risk management (ERM) framework to ensure a 
structured process of risk identification and mitigation. Risk management is embedded across the 
Group and aligned to the Group's corporate governance and sustainability frameworks.
Overview of Framework
 y
The ERM strategy is set at a Group level with a bottom up approach to risk identification.
 y
Ongoing review and analysis at business unit level, management committees and Board level.
 y
Financial, strategic, operational, information technology, governance and sustainability-related 
risks are considered and categorised within a common Risk Universe across Group businesses.
 y
All risks are rated and assigned to Risk Owners to ensure accountability and focus on mitigation 
activities.
Refer the Governance section on the Corporate Website for a discussion on the Risk Management Framework.
Key Risks
Rating
Macroeconomic and political environment 
Regulatory environment
Financial exposure
Information technology
Global competition
Human Resources and talent management
Environment and Health & Safety
Reputation and Brand Image
Supply chain risk
Ultra-High 
High 
Medium
Low
 y The operational risks associated with the COVID-19 pandemic were reviewed on an ongoing 
basis at all business units. 
 y Operationalisation and continuous monitoring of business continuity and response plans at 
business unit level. 
 y All central risk reviews were conducted remotely, ensuring the uninterrupted continuity 
of such processes, despite limitations and travel restrictions imposed via Government and 
health authority guidelines.
 y The Group hedged its exposure to interest rates by covering USD 100 million of the USD 
175 million long-term financial facility from the International Finance Corporation (IFC) as a 
prudent measure.
 y Whilst the risk rating in lieu of exchange rate exposure was upgraded to 'High', given the 
significant volatility of the Rupee during the year, the Group also adopted measures such as 
liability matching and mitigation of exposure through derivatives, where appropriate, proactively. 
KEY HIGHLIGHTS DURING THE YEAR:
Risks Associated with COVID-19
The year in review compelled the Group 
to adapt to the 'new normal' as the 
unprecedented nature of the COVID-19 
pandemic continued to impact the global and 
local economy.
The Group responded to this challenge 
through the adoption of an agile risk response 
given the evolving nature of the pandemic, 
and all businesses continued to monitor 
and revisit the 'pandemic' risk item on their 
respective risk registers to ensure that risk 
responses and mitigation actions were 
systematically assessed and updated to tackle 
volatile on-ground situations.
Alongside business continuity plans that were 
operationalised during the early days of the 
pandemic, businesses also developed and 
instituted COVID-19-specific response plans 
and teams to enable smooth and uninterrupted 
functioning of businesses and operations to 
the extent possible, whilst maintaining strict 
adherence to Government directives and 
health and safety considerations. Risk mitigation 
was facilitated through Group guidelines on 
workplace health and safety and 'work from 
home' guidelines, which was further formalised 
through the Agile Working Policy.
The Group rolled out various measures to 
ensure a sustainable and agile operating 
model, with a focused view on cash 
management and liquidity, in particular. 
While the Group had a strong cash position 
and availability of banking facilities at the 
onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, continued 
focus was placed on ensuring balance sheet 
strength to support the investment pipeline 
of the Group. In June 2020, JKH entered into a 
ten-year financing agreement with IFC for USD 
175 million to support funding of the Holding 
Company's investment pipeline, marking IFC's 
largest investment to date in Sri Lanka. 
Given the higher incidence of remote working 
arrangements and the increased digitisation 
of supply chains, particularly in light of the 
pandemic, measures were taken to further 
strengthen the information technology 
governance and cyber security framework.
Refer the Group Consolidated Review and 
Industry Group Review sections of the Report for 
a detailed discussion on COVID-19, its impact on 
the Group and its businesses. The sections also 
detail the strategies rolled out to minimise the 
impact on Group operations, its continuity and 
sustainability. 
The Governance section on the Corporate Website details, in depth, the justification for the above risk ratings 
along with the mitigation strategies being followed across the Group.
In furtherance of Group's sustainability and digitisation efforts, coupled with the need to strike 
a balance between the principles of conciseness and completeness in Integrated Reporting, the 
Group has used a variety of reporting formats to meet diverse stakeholder requirements. Whilst 
the section that ensues discusses the key highlights for the year under review, the Corporate 
Website entails a detailed discussion of the risk management processes and related initiatives.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ROBUST
187  Annual Report of the Board of Directors    192  The Statement of Directors’ Responsibility 
193  Independent Auditors’ Report    196  Income Statement    197  Statement of Comprehensive Income 
198  Statement of Financial Position    199  Statement of Cash Flows    200  Statement of Changes in Equity 
202  Notes to the Financial Statements

186   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
INDEX TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Corporate and Group information 
1 	 Corporate information 	
202
2 	 Group information 	
202
Basis of Preparation and Other Significant Accounting Policies
3	
Basis of preparation 	
202-203
4 	 Summary of significant accounting policies	
203
5 	 Significant accounting judgements, estimates and  
assumptions	
203-204
6 	 Changes in accounting standards 	
204
7 	 Standards issued but not yet effective	
204-205 
Group Business, Operations and Management
8 	 Operating segment information 	
205-210
9 	 Basis of consolidation and material partly owned  
subsidiaries	
211-213
10 	 Business combinations and acquisitions of  
non-controlling interests	
213-215
11 	 Financial risk management objectives and policies	
215-224
12 	 Fair value measurement and related fair  
value disclosures	
224-226
13 	 Financial instruments and related policies	
226-230
Notes to the Income Statement, Statement of Comprehensive 
Income and Statement of Financial Position
14 	 Revenue 	
231-232
15 	 Dividend income 	
233
16 	 Other operating income and other operating  
expenses	
233
17 	 Net finance income 	
234
18 	 Profit before tax 	
235
19 	 Earnings per share 	
236
20 	 Dividend per share 	
236
21 	 Taxes 	
237-242
22 	 Property, plant and equipment 	
242-247
23 	 Right of use assets and lease liabilities 	
247-248
24	 Investment property 	
249-250
25 	 Intangible assets 	
251-253
26 	 Investment in subsidiaries 	
254-256
27 	 Investment in equity accounted investees	
256-259
28 	 Non current financial assets 	
259-260
29 	 Other non current assets 	
261
30 	 Inventories 	
262 
31 	 Trade and other receivables 	
262
32 	 Other current assets 	
262
33 	 Short term investments 	
263
34 	 Stated capital and other components of equity	
264
35 	 Share-based payment plans 	
265-266
36 	 Insurance contract liabilities 	
266-269
37 	 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings	
269-272
38	 Employee benefit liabilities 	
272-274
39 	 Non current financial liabilities	
274
40	 Other non current liabilities	
274
41 	 Trade and other payables 	
274
42 	 Short term borrowings 	
275
43 	 Other current liabilities 	
275
44 	 Related party transactions 	
275-279
Other Disclosures 
45 	 Contingent liabilities 	
280-281
46 	 Capital and other commitments 	
281
47 	 Assets pledged 	
281
48	 Events after the reporting period 	
282
Annual Report of the Board of Directors	
187
The Statement of Directors’ Responsibility	
192
Independent Auditors’ Report 	
193
Income Statement	
196
Statement of Comprehensive Income	
197
Statement of Financial Position 	
198
Statement of Cash Flows 	
199
Statement of Changes in Equity 	
200
Notes to the Financial Statements	
202

187
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
The Directors have pleasure in presenting the 
42nd Annual Report of your Company which 
covers the Audited Financial Statements, 
Chairman’s Message, Corporate Governance 
Commentary, Management Discussion and 
Analysis including an Industry Group Review 
and all the other relevant information for the 
year ended 31 March 2021. Disclosures which 
appear in the Share Information section form 
a part of the Annual Report of the Board 
of Directors as it is a requirement of the 
Companies Act No. 07 of 2007.
Future Developments and Impact of 
COVID-19 Pandemic
Information on future developments and 
an assessment, to the extent possible, 
considering the current uncertainty relating 
to the COVID-19 pandemic, is contained in 
the Chairman’s Message and Management 
Discussion and Analysis sections of this 
Annual Report. While the short term outlook 
can be impacted on account of COVID-19 
related disruptions, the Report also contains 
a detailed discussion on the medium to long 
term outlook for the Group and the portfolio 
considerations related to the same.   
Financial Statements
Financial Statements of the Company and 
Group for the year ended 31 March 2021, 
which have been prepared in accordance with 
Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRS/LKAS), 
with the inclusion of the signatures of the 
Chairman, Deputy Chairman/Group Finance 
Director and Group Financial Controller, are 
given as a part of this Integrated Annual 
Report.
John Keells Holdings PLC
For the year ended 31 March
2021
2020
In LKR ‘000s
Profit after tax
10,565,887
8,639,540
Other adjustments
(2,135)
7,840
Balance brought forward from the previous year
59,631,436
54,280,016
Amount available for appropriation
 70,195,188
62,927,396
interim dividends of LKR. 1.50 per share (2020-LKR. 3.50) paid 
out of dividend received
(1,978,317)
(3,295,960)
Final dividend declared LKR. 0.50 to be paid out of dividend 
received
(659,832)
-
Balance to be carried forward to the next year
67,557,039
59,631,436
reports, together with the Audited Financial 
Statements, reflect the state of affairs of the 
Company and the Group. The Segment-wise 
contribution to Group revenue, results, assets 
and liabilities are provided in Note 8 to the 
Financial Statements.
Financial Results and Appropriations
Accounting Policies
All the significant accounting policies adopted 
by the Company and Group are mentioned in 
the Notes to the Financial Statements. There 
have been no changes in the accounting 
policies adopted by the Group during the 
year under review. For all periods up to and 
including the year ended 31 March 2021, 
the Group prepared its financial statements 
in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting 
Standards (SLFRS/LKAS) which have materially 
converged with the International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRS) as issued by the 
International Accounting Standards Board 
(IASB).
Revenue
Revenue generated by the Company 
amounted to LKR. 1,637 Mn (2020– LKR. 1,462 
Mn), whilst Group revenue amounted to 
LKR. 127,676 Mn (2020 – LKR. 138,956 Mn). 
Contribution to Group revenue, from the 
different business segments, is provided in 
Note 8 to the Financial Statements.
Profit and Appropriations
The profit after tax of the Company was LKR.  
10,566  Mn (2020 – LKR. 8,640 Mn) whilst the 
Group profit attributable to equity holders of 
the parent for the year was LKR. 4,772 Mn (2020 
- LKR. 9,414 Mn).
The Company’s total comprehensive income 
net of tax was LKR. 11,296 Mn (2020 - LKR. 
8,662 Mn), and the Group total comprehensive 
income attributable to parent was LKR. 
10,761 Mn (2020 - LKR. 16,581 Mn). The Group 
profitability was impacted primarily due to 
the performance of the Leisure industry group 
on account of the COVID-19 pandemic as 
discussed elsewhere in the Annual Report.
Dividend and Reserves
As required by Section 56(2) of the Companies 
Act No 7 of 2007, the Board of Directors have 
confirmed that the Company satisfies the 
solvency test in accordance with Section 57 
of the Companies Act No 7 of 2007, and has 
obtained certificates from the auditors, prior 
to declaring all dividends.  A final dividend will 
Principal Activities
John Keells Holdings PLC (the Company), 
the Group’s holding Company, manages a 
portfolio of holdings consisting of a range of 
diverse business operations, which, together, 
constitute the John Keells Group (the Group), 
and provides function-based services to its 
subsidiaries, joint ventures, and associates.
The companies within the Group and its 
business activities are described in the 
Group Directory under the Supplementary 
Information section of the Annual Report. 
There were no significant changes to the 
principal activities of the Company or its 
subsidiaries during the year.
Corporate Vision and Values
A culture of innovation, integrity, excellence, 
caring and trust has been developed within 
the Group. By being aligned with these values 
the Directors and employees conduct their 
activities to achieve the vision, “Building 
businesses that are leaders in the region”.
Review of Business Segments
A review of the financial and operational 
performance and future business 
developments of the Group, sectors, and 
its business units are described in the 
Management Discussion and Analysis section 
of the Annual Report. Significant changes 
to business combinations and acquisition 
of non-controlling interests are provided in 
Note 10 to the Financial Statements. These 

188   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
be paid on or before 25 June 2021 to those 
shareholders on the register as of 4 June 2021.
Capital Expenditure
The Company’s and Group’s capital 
expenditure on property, plant and equipment 
amounted to LKR. 9 Mn (2020 - LKR. 24 Mn) 
and LKR. 5,367 Mn (2020 - LKR. 15,212 Mn), 
respectively, and all other related information 
and movements have been disclosed in Note 
22 to the Financial Statements.
Additions of intangible assets of the Company 
and Group during the year amounted to LKR. 
26 Mn (2020 - LKR. 34 Mn) and LKR. 2,187 Mn 
(2020 - LKR. 387 Mn), respectively, and all other 
related movements are disclosed in Note 25 to 
the Financial Statements.
Valuation of Land, Buildings, and 
Investment Properties
All land and buildings owned by Group 
companies were revalued as at 31 December 
2020 and the carrying value amounted to 
LKR. 90,642 Mn (2020 - LKR. 87,185 Mn). All 
information related to revaluation is given in 
Note 22.3 to the Financial Statements.
Investment properties of business units, when 
significantly occupied by Group companies, 
are classified as property, plant and equipment 
in the consolidated financial statements in 
compliance with LKAS 40.
The Group revalued all its investment 
properties as at 31 December 2020, and the 
carrying value amounted to LKR. 14,868 Mn 
(2020- LKR. 15,008 Mn). All information related 
to the revaluation of investment properties 
is provided in Note 24 to the Financial 
Statements.  
Details of the Group’s real estate as at 31 March 
2021, are disclosed in the Group Real Estate 
Portfolio in the Supplementary Information 
section of the Annual Report.
Investments
A detailed description of the long term 
investments held as at the reporting date, is 
given in Notes 26, 27 and 28 to the Financial 
Statements.
Stated Capital
Stated Capital as at 31 March 2021 for the 
Company amounted to LKR. 63,102 Mn 
(2020 - LKR. 62,881 Mn). The movement and 
composition of the Stated Capital is disclosed 
in the Statement of Changes in Equity and in 
Note 34.1 to the Financial Statements.
Revenue Reserves
Revenue reserves as at 31 March 2021 for the 
Company and Group amounted to LKR. 68,217 
Mn (2020 - LKR. 59,631 Mn) and LKR. 90,652 
Mn (2020 - LKR. 87,885 Mn), respectively. The 
movement of the revenue reserve is disclosed 
in the Statement of Changes in Equity.
Share Information
The distribution and composition of 
shareholders and information relating to 
earnings, dividends, net assets, market 
value per share and share trading is given 
in the Share Information section of the 
Annual Report. As additional disclosures, the 
Company’s Board of Directors’ (including their 
close family members) shareholdings, options 
available under the employee share option 
plans (ESOP) as at 31 March 2021, market 
capitalisation, public holding percentage and 
number of public shareholders are given in 
the Share Information section of the Annual 
Report.  
Major Shareholders
Details of the twenty largest shareholders 
of the Company and the percentages held 
by each of them are disclosed in the Share 
Information section of the Annual Report.
Equitable Treatment of Shareholders 
The Company has at all times ensured that all 
shareholders are treated equitably.
The Board of Directors
The Board of Directors of the Company as at 
31 March 2021 and their brief profiles are given 
in the Corporate Governance section of the 
Annual Report.
Retirement and Re-Election of Directors 
Retirement and Re-Election of Directors of the 
Company as at 31 March 2021 are given in the 
Proxy Form.
Review of the Performance of the Board
The performance of the board has been 
appraised through a formalised process, 
where each individual Director anonymously 
comments on the effectiveness and the 
dynamics of the Board. The process is 
described in the Corporate Governance 
Commentary section of the Annual Report.
Board Committees
Information relating to members of the 
Audit Committee, Human Resources and 
Compensation Committee, Nominations 
Committee, Related Party Transactions Review 
Committee and Project Risk Assessment 
Committee, including reports of each of the 
committees, where applicable, and attendance 
of Directors for each of the committee 
meetings, are disclosed in the Corporate 
Governance Commentary section of the 
Annual Report.
Interests Register and Interests in 
Contracts
The Company has maintained an Interests 
Register as required under the Companies Act 
No 7 of 2007.
This Annual Report also contains particulars 
of entries made in the Interests Registers of 
subsidiaries which are public companies or 
private companies and have not dispensed 
with the requirement to maintain an Interests 
Register as permitted by Section 30 of the 
Companies Act No 7 of 2007.
The Directors have all made a general 
disclosure relating to share dealings and 
indemnities and remuneration to the Board 
of Directors as permitted by Section 192 (2) 
of the Companies Act No 7 of 2007 and no 
additional interests have been disclosed by 
any Director. The Interest Register is available at 
the registered head office of the Company, in 
keeping with the requirements of the section 
119 (1) (d) of the Companies Act No 7 of 2007. 
Share Dealings
Other than for the following entries, particulars 
of the Company interest register are disclosed 
in the Share Information section of the Annual 
Report. . 
John Keells Holdings PLC 
•	 Sam Innovators (Pvt) Ltd (Related party of M 
A Omar) Purchase 681,000 shares
•	 Phoenix Ventures (Pvt) Ltd (Related party 
of M A Omar and A N Fonseka) Purchase 
2,975,000 shares
Given below are the particulars of share 
dealings of subsidiaries reported, for 
subsidiaries which are public companies, or 
private companies, which have not dispensed 
with the requirement to maintain an interest 
register for the period from 1 April 2020 to 31 
March 2021.

189
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC 
•	 S T Ratwatte - Sale of 1,000 shares
Union Assurance PLC
•	 J. P. Gomes – Purchase 500 shares
Indemnities and Remuneration 
The Board approved the payment of 
remuneration of the following Executive 
Directors for the period of 1 April 2020 to 31 
March 2021 comprising of; 
•	 A short term variable incentive based on 
the individual performance, organisation 
performance and role responsibility 
based on the results of the financial year 
2019/2020, and 
•	 A long term incentive plan including 
employee share options in John Keells 
Holdings PLC.
John Keells Holdings PLC
• 	 K N J Balendra
• 	 J G A Cooray
Asian Hotels and Properties PLC
• 	 S Rajendra
	 S Rajendra became a Non-Executive Director 
with effect from 1 January 2021 at the 
standard Non-Executive fees approved by 
the Board for Non-Executive Directors (if 
applicable) which fees are commensurate 
with the market complexities associated 
with the John Keells Group.
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC
• 	 D P Gamlath
•  	P N Fernando (Appointed w.e.f 1 January 
2021)
Cinnamon Hotel Management Ltd
• 	 J R Gunaratne (Retired w.e.f 31 December 
2020)
• 	 J E P Kehelpannala 
• 	 M H Singhawansa
Walkers Tours Ltd
• 	 I N Amaratunga
All approvals relating to indemnities and 
remuneration have been recommended by 
the Human Resources and Compensation 
Committee, taking into consideration inputs 
from market surveys, expert opinions and the 
specific management complexities associated 
with the John Keells Group and in keeping 
with the Group remuneration policy.
The contracts and standard director fees of the 
following Non-Executive Directors have been 
approved / renewed by the Board. The director 
fees are commensurate with the market 
complexities associated with the John Keells 
Group.
Asian Hotels and Properties PLC
•	 C L P Gunawardane  (Appointed w.e.f 1 
January 2021)
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC
•     K C Subasinghe (Appointed w.e.f 1 January 
2021)
John Keells PLC
•	 A Z Hashim (Appointed w.e.f 1 January 2021)
•	 K D Weerasinghe (Appointed w.e.f 1 January 
2021)
John Keells Hotels PLC
•	 S Rajendra (Appointed w.e.f 1 January 2021)
•	 M R  Svensson (Appointed w.e.f 1 January 
2021)
Keells Food Products PLC
•	 P N Fernando (Appointed w.e.f 1 January 
2021)
Tea Smallholders Factories PLC
•	 A Goonetilleke (Appointed w.e.f 7 July 2020)
•	 A Z Hashim (Appointed w.e.f 1 January 2021)
Trans Asia Hotels PLC 
•	 C L P Gunawardane (Appointed w.e.f 1 
January 2021)
•	 S Rajendra (Appointed w.e.f 1 January 2021)
Union Assurance PLC
•	 D P Gamlath (Appointed w.e.f 10 June 2020)
•	 W. M. De F Arsakularatne (Appointed w.e.f 14 
July 2020)
Walkers Tours Ltd
•	 C L P Gunawardane (Appointed w.e.f 1 
January 2021)
•	 S Rajendra (Appointed w.e.f 1 January 2021)
Fees payable to Non-Executive Nominee 
Directors of John Keells Holdings PLC was paid 
to John Keells Holdings PLC and not to the 
individual Directors concerned.
Directors’ Remuneration
Details of the remuneration and other benefits 
received by the Directors are set out in Note 
44.7 to the Financial Statements.
Related Party Transactions
The Company’s transactions with Related 
Parties, given in Note 44 to the Financial 
Statements, have complied with the Listing 
Rule 9.3.2 of the Colombo Stock Exchange 
and the Code of Best Practices on Related 
Party Transactions under the Securities and 
Exchange Commission Directive issued under 
Section 13(c) of the Securities and Exchange 
Commission Act.
Employee Share Option Plan (ESOP)
At the beginning of the year, the employee 
share option plan consisted of the Eighth, 
Ninth and Tenth plans approved by the 
shareholders on 28 June 2014, 24 June 2016 
and 28 June 2019 respectively.
The Directors confirm that the Company has 
not granted any funding to employees to 
exercise options.
Details of the options granted, options 
exercised, the grant price and the options 
cancelled or lapsed and outstanding as at the 
date of the Directors’ Report, as required by the 
Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange, 
are given under the Share Information section 
of the Annual Report.
The highest, lowest and the closing prices of 
the Company shares are disclosed in the Share 
Information section of the Annual Report.
Employment
The Group has an equal opportunity policy 
and these principles are enshrined in 
specific selection, training, development and 
promotion policies, ensuring that all decisions 
are based on merit. The Group practices 
equality of opportunity for all employees 
irrespective of ethnic origin, religion, political 
opinion, gender, marital status or physical 
disability. During the year the Group instituted 
a Diversity and Inclusion team towards 
increasing the diversity of its workforce and 
launched the ‘ONE JKH’ brand to consolidate 
its efforts towards diversity and inclusion and 
reinforce its position on non-discrimination 
and equal opportunity. Employee ownership 
in the Company is facilitated through the 
employee share option plan.

190   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Details of the Group’s human resource 
initiatives are detailed in the Human Capital 
section of the Capital Management Review 
section of the Annual Report.
The number of persons employed by the 
Company and Group as at 31 March 2021 was 
110 (2020 - 95) and 13,831 (2020 - 14,821), 
respectively.
There have been no material issues pertaining 
to employees and industrial relations of the 
Company and the Group..
Supplier Policy
The Group applies an overall policy of 
agreeing and clearly communicating the 
terms of payment as part of the commercial 
agreements negotiated with suppliers, and 
endeavours to pay for all items in accordance 
with these agreed terms. As at 31 March 2021, 
the trade and other payables of the Company 
and Group amounted to LKR. 373 Mn (2020 - 
LKR. 423 Mn) and LKR. 35,288 Mn (2020 - LKR. 
23,881 Mn), respectively.
The Group strives to integrate principles 
of sustainable practices and policies in its 
value chain through extensive stakeholder 
consultations, the findings of which are 
integrated into work-plans. 
Ratios and Market price information 
The ratios relating to equity, debt and market 
price information as required by the listing 
requirements of the Colombo Stock Exchange 
are given in the Share Information section of 
this Report.
Corporate Governance
The Board of Directors is committed 
towards maintaining an effective Corporate 
Governance Framework by effectively 
implementing systems and structures required 
to ensuring best practices in Corporate 
Governance. The manner in which the 
Company has complied with Section 7.10 
of the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock 
Exchange (CSE) on Corporate Governance are 
given in the Corporate Governance section of 
this Report.   
Sustainability
The Group pursues its business goals based 
on a model of stakeholder governance. 
Findings of the continuous internal stakeholder 
engagements have enabled the Group to focus 
on material issues such as the conservation 
of natural resources and the environment as 
well as material issues highlighted by other 
stakeholders such as employees, customers, 
suppliers and the community. These steps have 
been encapsulated in a Group-wide strategy 
focused on sustainable development which 
is continuously evolving based on the above 
mentioned stakeholder engagements.
This is the Group’s sixth Integrated Annual 
Report, which presents a comprehensive 
discussion on its financial and non-financial 
performance, in a bid to provide its 
stakeholders with holistic information relating 
to its value creation proposition through 
the six forms of capital reported under the 
International <IR> Framework. The Group has 
sought independent third-party assurance 
from DNV GL, represented in Sri Lanka by DNV 
Business Assurance Lanka (Pvt) Ltd, in relation 
to the non-financial information contained in 
this Report. 
Research and Development
The Group has an active approach to research 
and development and recognises the 
contribution that it can make to intellectual 
property and the Group’s operations. 
Significant expenditure has taken place over 
the years and substantial efforts will continue 
to be made to introduce intellectual property 
rights, develop new products and processes 
and improve the operational efficiency of 
existing products and processes.
Environmental Protection
The Group complies with the relevant 
environmental laws, regulations and 
endeavours to comply with best practices 
applicable in the country of operation. 
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) 
John Keells Foundation, which is funded 
by JKH and its subsidiaries, handles most of 
the Group’s CSR initiatives and activities. The 
Foundation manages a range of programmes 
that underpin its key principle of acting 
responsibly towards its stakeholders and to 
bring about sustainable development in its 
areas of focus. The CSR initiatives, including 
completed and on- going projects, are detailed 
in the Group Consolidated Review section in 
the Annual Report.
In quantifying the Group’s contribution to CSR 
initiatives and activities, no account has been 
taken of in-house costs or management time.
Donations
Total donations made by the Company and the 
Group during the year amounted to LKR. 5 Mn 
(2020 - LKR. 3.5 Mn) and LKR. 7 Mn (2020 -  
LKR. 4.9 Mn), respectively. These amounts 
do not include contributions on account of 
corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiatives.
Statutory Payments
The Directors confirm that to the best of 
their knowledge, all taxes, duties and levies 
payable by the Company and its subsidiaries, 
all contributions, levies and taxes payable on 
behalf of, and in respect of, the employees 
of the Company and its subsidiaries, and all 
other known statutory dues as were due and 
payable by the Company and its subsidiaries as 
at the statement of financial position date have 
been paid or, where relevant, provided for, 
except as specified in Note 45 to the Financial 
Statements covering contingent liabilities.
Compliance with Laws and Regulations 
To the best of knowledge and belief of the 
Directors, the Company and the Group has not 
engaged in any activity, which contravenes the 
laws and regulations of the country.
Enterprise Risk Management and Internal 
Controls
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing 
process of identifying, evaluating and 
managing any significant risk faced by the 
Group, where the risks are assessed and 
reviewed by each business unit  every quarter 
while further annual risk reviews are carried out 
by the Enterprise Risk Management Division. 
The headline risks of each listed Company are 
presented by the Business Unit to its respective 
Audit Committee for review and, in the case 
of John Keells Holdings PLC, by the Enterprise 
Risk Management Division to the John Keells 
Holdings PLC Audit Committee.

191
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
The Corporate Governance section of this 
Report elaborates on these practices and the 
Group’s risk factors.
Internal Controls and Assurance 
The Board, through the involvement of the 
Group Business Process Review Division, takes 
steps to gain assurance on the effectiveness 
over the financial, operational and risk 
management control systems in place. The 
Audit Committee receives regular reports on 
the adequacy and effectiveness of internal 
controls in the Group, compliance with laws 
and regulations and established policies and 
procedures of the Group. The head of the 
Group Business Process Review Division has 
direct access to the Chairman of the Audit 
Committee. Reports of the outsourced internal 
auditors are also reviewed by the Committee.
Events After the Reporting Period 
There have been no events subsequent to 
the reporting period, which would have any 
material effect on the Company or on the 
Group other than those disclosed in Note 48 to 
the Financial Statements.
Going Concern
In determining the basis of preparing the 
financial statements for the year ended 31 
March 2021, based on available information, 
the management has assessed the prevailing 
and anticipated effects of COVID-19 on the 
Group Companies and the appropriateness of 
the use of the going concern basis. 	
It is the view of the management there are no 
material uncertainties that may cast significant 
doubt on the Groups’ ability to continue 
to operate as a going concern due to the 
improved operating environment, despite 
the ongoing effects of the pandemic, and the 
operationalisation of risk mitigation initiatives 
and continuous monitoring of business 
continuity and response plans at each business 
unit level along with the financial strength 
of the Group. The management has formed 
judgment that the Company, its subsidiaries, 
associates and joint ventures have adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence 
for the foreseeable future and continue to 
adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
and presenting these financial statements.
Appointment and Remuneration of 
Independent Auditors
Messrs. Ernst & Young, Chartered Accountants, 
are willing to continue as Auditors of the 
Company, and a resolution proposing their 
reappointment will be tabled at the Annual 
General Meeting.
The Independent Auditors’ Report is found in 
the Financial Statements section of the Annual 
Report.
The Audit Committee reviews the appointment 
of the Auditor, its effectiveness, independence 
and relationship with the Group, including the 
level of audit and non-audit fees paid to the 
Auditor.
The Group works with 3 firms of Chartered 
Accountants across the Group, namely, Ernst 
& Young, KPMG and PricewaterhouseCoopers. 
Details of audit fees are set out in Note 18 
to the Financial Statements. The Auditors do 
not have any relationship (other than that of 
an Auditor) with the Company or any of its 
subsidiaries.
Further details on the work of the Auditor and 
the Audit Committee are set out in the Audit 
Committee Report.
Integrated Annual Report
The Board of Directors approved the 
Integrated Annual Report on 24 May 2021. The 
appropriate number of copies of this report will 
be submitted to the Colombo Stock Exchange 
and to the Sri Lanka Accounting and Auditing 
Standards Monitoring Board as required.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held as a 
virtual meeting on 25 June 2021 at 10:00 a.m.
This Annual Report is signed for and on behalf 
of the Board of Directors.
By Order of the Board
Director
Director
Keells Consultants (Pvt) Ltd
Secretaries
24 May 2021

192   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
THE STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY
The responsibility of the Directors in relation 
to the financial statements is set out in the 
following statement. The responsibility of the 
auditors, in relation to the financial statements 
prepared in accordance with the provision of 
the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007, is set out in 
the Report of the Auditors. 
The financial statements comprise of: 
•	 income statement and statement of 
comprehensive income of the Company 
and its subsidiaries, which present a true 
and fair view of the financial performance 
of the Company and its subsidiaries for the 
financial year; and
•	 a statement of financial position, which 
presents a true and fair view of the state of 
affairs of the Company and its subsidiaries 
as at the end of the financial year: and 
The Directors are required to confirm that the 
financial statements:
have been prepared: 
•	 using appropriate accounting policies 
which have been selected and applied in a 
consistent manner, and material departures, 
if any, have been disclosed and explained; 
and
are
•	 presented in accordance with the Sri Lanka 
Accounting Standards (SLFRS/LKAS); and 
that reasonable and prudent judgments 
and estimates have been made so that 
the form and substance of transactions are 
properly reflected; and
•	 provide the information required by and 
otherwise comply with the Companies Act 
and the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock 
Exchange. 
The Directors are also required to ensure 
that the Company has adequate resources 
to continue in operation to justify applying 
the going concern basis in preparing these 
financial statements. 
Further, the Directors have a responsibility 
to ensure that the Company maintains 
sufficient accounting records to disclose, with 
reasonable accuracy, the financial position of 
the Company and of the Group.
The Directors are also responsible for taking 
reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of 
the Company and of the Group and in this 
regard to give proper consideration to the 
establishment of appropriate internal control 
systems with a view to preventing and 
detecting fraud and other irregularities. 
The Directors are required to prepare the 
financial statements and to provide the 
auditors with every opportunity to take 
whatever steps and undertake whatever 
inspections that may be considered being 
appropriate to enable them to give their audit 
opinion.
As required by Section 56 (2) of the Companies 
Act No. 7 of 2007, the Board of Directors have 
confirmed that the Company, based on the 
information available, satisfies the solvency 
test immediately after the distribution, in 
accordance with Section 57 of the Companies 
Act No. 7 of 2007, and have obtained a 
certificate from the auditors, prior to declaring 
all dividend. A final dividend will be paid on or 
before 25 June 2021 to those shareholders on 
the register as of 4 June 2021.
The Directors are of the view that they have 
discharged their responsibilities as set out in 
this statement. 
Compliance Report
The Directors confirm that to the best of 
their knowledge, all taxes, duties and levies 
payable by the Company and its subsidiaries, 
all contributions, levies and taxes payable on 
behalf of and in respect of the employees 
of the Company and its subsidiaries, and 
all other known statutory dues as were 
due and payable by the Company and its 
subsidiaries as at the reporting date have 
been paid, or where relevant provided for, 
except as specified in Note 45 to the Financial 
Statements covering contingent liabilities.
By order of the Board
Keells Consultants (Pvt) Ltd.
Secretaries
24 May 2021

193
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF JOHN KEELLS 
HOLDINGS PLC  
Report on the audit of the Financial 
Statements
Opinion
We have audited the financial statements of 
John Keells Holdings PLC (“the Company”) and 
the consolidated financial statements of the 
Company and its subsidiaries (“the Group”), which 
comprise the statement of financial position as 
at 31 March 2021, and the income statement 
and the statement of comprehensive income, 
statement of changes in equity and statement of 
cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to 
the financial statements, including a summary of 
significant accounting policies.
In our opinion, the accompanying financial 
statements of the Company and the Group give 
a true and fair view of the financial position of the 
Company and the Group as at 31 March 2021, 
and of their financial performance and cash flows 
for the year then ended in accordance with Sri 
Lanka Accounting Standards. 
Basis for opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with 
Sri Lanka Auditing Standards (SLAuSs). Our 
responsibilities under those standards are further 
described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for 
the audit of the financial statements section of 
our report. We are independent of the Group in 
accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by CA 
Sri Lanka (Code of Ethics) and we have fulfilled 
our other ethical responsibilities in accordance 
with the Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit 
evidence we have obtained is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Key audit matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our 
professional judgment, were of most significance 
in our audit of the financial statements of the 
current period. These matters were addressed 
in the context of our audit of the financial 
statements as a whole, and in forming our 
opinion thereon, and we do not provide a 
separate opinion on these matters. For each 
matter below, our description of how our audit 
addressed the matter is provided in that context.
We have fulfilled the responsibilities described 
in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit 
of the financial statements section of our 
report, including in relation to these matters. 
Accordingly, our audit included the performance 
of procedures designed to respond to our 
assessment of the risks of material misstatement 
of the financial statements. The results of our 
audit procedures, including the procedures 
performed to address the matters below, 
provide the basis for our audit opinion on the 
accompanying financial statements.
Key Audit Matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Impairment testing of significant Non-Current Assets in the Leisure 
Industry Group
 As at 31st March the Group reported the following significant non-current 
assets which accounted for 17% of the total assets of the Group under 
leisure industry Group.
•	 Property, Plant & Equipment and Investment Property including Land and 
Buildings amounting to Rs 62.2 Bn
•	 Right of Use Assets amounting to Rs. 29.1 Bn
•	 Goodwill from leisure industry Group Rs. 166 Mn
The continuing impacts of COVID -19 on the leisure industry Groups’ results, 
have been considered a trigger for testing impairment of Non-Current 
Assets. The leisure industry Group tested significant Non-Current Assets 
including Goodwill for impairment using valuation techniques involving 
judgements, estimates and assumptions. In carrying out impairment 
assessments, Management evaluated the recoverability of the carrying value 
of cash generating units being each hotel of the leisure industry Group, by 
comparing the underlying expected future cash flows and fair values less 
cost to sell with the related carrying values.
Impairment testing of significant non-current assets including goodwill was 
a key audit matter due to: 
•	 the degree of assumptions, judgements and estimation uncertainty 
associated with valuation of Land and Buildings amplified by the impact 
of COVID-19. The valuation this year contains a higher estimation 
uncertainty as there were fewer market transactions which are ordinarily a 
strong source of evidence regarding fair value.
Our audit procedures included the following;
 •	 we gained an understanding of how management has forecast its future 
discounted cash flows which included consideration of the impacts of 
the continuing COVID-19 pandemic on the operations of the respective 
hotels of the Group.
•	 we checked the calculations of the future discounted cash flows and 
cross checked the data to relevant underlying management information, 
to evaluate their reasonableness.
•	 we engaged our internal resources to assist us in:
	
-	 assessing the reasonableness of significant assumptions used such 
as expected period of time for recovery, anticipated occupancy and 
average room rates. This included comparing assumptions used with 
available industry data and market conditions, 
	
-	 evaluating the sensitivity of the projected cashflows, by considering 
possible changes in key assumptions,
	
-	 assessing appropriateness of the valuation techniques used and the 
reasonableness of the significant judgements and assumptions such as, 
per perch price and value per square foot.

194   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
Key Audit Matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
•	 the degree of underlying assumptions coupled with inherent estimation 
uncertainties that arise when deriving the estimated cashflows used for 
value in use calculations 
Key areas of significant judgments, estimates and assumptions included the 
following:
•	 estimate of per perch value of the land and per square foot value of the 
buildings
•	 key inputs and assumptions related to computing the value in use 
expectations of future cash flows, growth rates used for extrapolation 
purposes, discount rates and terminal yield rates including the potential 
impact from COVID-19. 
Waterfront Project
The Group continues to invest in the Waterfront project as detailed in note 
29 and 30 to the financial statements.  Expenditure incurred include Work-in-
progress -Waterfront Project  and  Inventory work in progress ( apartments)  
amounting to LKR 147 Bn and  represent 27 % of the total assets of the 
Group. 
This was a key audit matter due to;
•	 the significance of the balances relating to the amounts recorded in 
the financial statements and the estimated future costs to be incurred 
including potential impacts from COVID 19. 
•	 involvement of management judgements in assessing capitalization of 
borrowing costs and other overhead costs to be included as Work-in-
progress -Waterfront Project as detailed in note 29. 
•	 Key assumptions and estimates involved in ascertaining the carrying 
value and measurement of Inventory work-in-progress as detailed in note 
30 
Our procedures performed included:
•	 performing sample tests of expenditure and allocation of overheads 
including an examination of management’s assessment as to whether the 
expenditure met the recognition and measurement criteria set forth in 
accounting policies of the Group.
•	 inspecting the loan agreement to establish that the loan has been 
obtained for the project and management’s assessment on the timing of 
capitalization of borrowing costs in compliance with LKAS 23 – Borrowing 
Cost and verifying such costs on a sample basis.
•	 reviewing the project status reports and the certificates issued by the 
project manager to identify the status of the project.
•	 assessing on a sample basis the NRV on the Inventories Work -In-Progress 
to the selling prices achieved and contracted in the said project and the 
advertised sales prices. 
Assessing the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures of its capitalization policy 
and other related disclosures in Note 29 and 30.
Life insurance contract liabilities
Life Insurance Contract Liabilities amounting to Rs 45 Bn represent 15% of 
total liabilities of the Group as at 31 March 2021. Life Insurance Contract 
Liabilities are determined as described in note 36. 
This was a key audit matters due to:
•	 Materiality of the reported Life Insurance Contract Liabilities; 
•	 The degree of assumptions, judgements and estimation  uncertainty 
associated with actuarial valuation of Life Insurance Contract Liabilities; 
•	 Liability adequacy test carried out to ensure the adequacy of the carrying 
value of Life Insurance Contract Liabilities.
Key areas of significant judgments, estimates and assumptions used in the 
valuation of the Life Insurance Contract Liabilities included the following:
•	 The determination of assumptions such as mortality, morbidity, lapses 
and surrenders, loss ratios, bonus, interest rate, discount rates and 
expenses and expected effects of COVID 19.
To assess the reasonableness of the Life Insurance Contract Liabilities, our 
audit procedures included amongst others the following:
•	 we involved the component auditor of the subsidiary company to 
perform the audit procedures to assess the reasonableness of the 
assumptions and test the controls on sample basis over the process of 
estimating the insurance contract liabilities.
•	 we involved the internal expert of component auditor of the subsidiary 
company to assess the reasonableness of the assumptions used in the 
valuations of the insurance contract liabilities.
•	 we assessed the adequacy of the disclosures and the movement in the 
insurance contract liabilities.
Interest Bearing Borrowing from IFC
During the year Group has obtained a loan from IFC (International Finance 
Corporation) amounting to USD 175Mn (LKR 35 Bn) which represents 12% of 
the Group total liabilities. The Group incurred a related finance expense of Rs. 
528 Mn during the year.
This was a key audit matter due to: 
•	 Compliance with relevant covenants to ensure appropriateness of the 
classification of such borrowings in the financial statements.
•	 The magnitude of the borrowings in relation to the total liabilities.
Our audit procedures included the following;
•	 We understood the Group’s processes and assessed the design and 
operating effectiveness of controls for recording and reporting the terms 
and conditions of interest-bearing borrowings, the associated interest 
costs and monitoring compliance with the covenants of the loan. 
•	 We validated the compliance with material covenants and obtained direct 
confirmations from external lending institution.
•	 We assessed the appropriateness of the amount recognized as interest 
expense in the financial statement, performing a re-computation test.
•	 We assessed the adequacy of the disclosures made in Note 37 in the 
financial statements relating to the interest-bearing borrowings and 
related finance cost respectively.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT

195
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
Other information included in the Group’s 
2020/21 Annual Report
Other information consists of the information 
included in the Annual Report, other than the 
financial statements and our auditor’s report 
thereon. Management is responsible for the other 
information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does 
not cover the other information and we do 
not express any form of assurance conclusion 
thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial 
statements, our responsibility is to read the other 
information and, in doing so, consider whether 
the other information is materially inconsistent 
with the financial statements or our knowledge 
obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to 
be materially misstated. If, based on the work 
we have performed, we conclude that there is a 
material misstatement of this other information, 
we are required to report that fact. We have 
nothing to report in this regard. 
Responsibilities of management and those 
charged with governance 
Management is responsible for the preparation 
of financial statements that give a true and fair 
view in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting 
Standards, and for such internal control as 
management determines is necessary to enable 
the preparation of financial statements that are 
free from material misstatement, whether due to 
fraud or error.  
In preparing the financial statements, 
management is responsible for assessing the 
Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, 
disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going 
concern and using the going concern basis of 
accounting unless management either intends to 
liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has 
no realistic alternative but to do so.  
Those charged with governance are responsible 
for overseeing the Company’s and the Group’s 
financial reporting process. 
Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of 
the financial statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether the financial statements as a 
whole are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error, and to issue 
an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. 
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, 
but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted 
in accordance with SLAuSs will always detect 
a material misstatement when it exists. 
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and 
are considered material if, individually or in the 
aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to 
influence the economic decisions of users taken 
on the basis of these financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SLAuSs, 
we exercise professional judgment and maintain 
professional scepticism throughout the audit. 
We also:  
•	 Identify and assess the risks of material 
misstatement of the financial statements, 
whether due to fraud or error, design and 
perform audit procedures responsive to 
those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a 
material misstatement resulting from fraud 
is higher than for one resulting from error, as 
fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional 
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override 
of internal control.
 •	 Obtain an understanding of internal control 
relevant to the audit in order to design 
audit procedures that are appropriate in the 
circumstances, but not for the purpose of 
expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of 
the internal controls of the Company and the 
Group.
•	 Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting 
policies used and the reasonableness of 
accounting estimates and related disclosures 
made by management.
•	 Conclude on the appropriateness of 
management’s use of the going concern 
basis of accounting and, based on the audit 
evidence obtained, whether a material 
uncertainty exists related to events or 
conditions that may cast significant doubt 
on the Group’s ability to continue as a going 
concern. If we conclude that a material 
uncertainty exists, we are required to draw 
attention in our auditor’s report to the related 
disclosures in the financial statements or, if 
such disclosures are inadequate, to modify 
our opinion. Our conclusions are based on 
the audit evidence obtained up to the date of 
our auditor’s report. However, future events or 
conditions may cause the Group to cease to 
continue as a going concern.
•	 Evaluate the overall presentation, structure 
and content of the financial statements, 
including the disclosures, and whether the 
financial statements represent the underlying 
transactions and events in a manner that 
achieves fair presentation.
•	 Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence 
regarding the financial information of the 
entities or business activities within the Group 
to express an opinion on the consolidated 
financial statements. We are responsible for the 
direction, supervision and performance of the 
Group audit. We remain solely responsible for 
our audit opinion. 
We communicate with those charged with 
governance regarding, among other matters, 
the planned scope and timing of the audit 
and significant audit findings, including any 
significant deficiencies in internal control that we 
identify during our audit.  
We also provide those charged with governance 
with a statement that we have complied with 
ethical requirements in accordance with the 
Code of Ethics regarding independence, and to 
communicate with them all relationships and 
other matters that may reasonably be thought to 
bear on our independence, and where applicable, 
related safeguards.  
From the matters communicated with those 
charged with governance, we determine those 
matters that were of most significance in the 
audit of the financial statements of the current 
period and are therefore the key audit matters. 
We describe these matters in our auditor’s 
report unless law or regulation precludes public 
disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely 
rare circumstances, we determine that a matter 
should not be communicated in our report 
because the adverse consequences of doing so 
would reasonably be expected to outweigh the 
public interest benefits of such communication. 
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory 
Requirements
As required by section 163 (2) of the Companies 
Act No. 07 of 2007, we have obtained all the 
information and explanations that were required 
for the audit and, as far as appears from our 
examination, proper accounting records have 
been kept by the Company.
CA Sri Lanka membership number of the 
engagement partner responsible for signing this 
independent auditor’s report is 2097. 
24 May 2021
Colombo

196   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
INCOME STATEMENT
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
Note
2021
2020
2021
2020
In LKR '000s
Continuing operations 
Revenue from contracts with customers 
 114,454,483 
 127,834,824 
 1,637,063 
 1,462,190 
Revenue from insurance contracts 
 13,221,167 
 11,120,928 
 - 
 - 
Total revenue 
14
 127,675,650 
 138,955,752 
 1,637,063 
 1,462,190 
Cost of sales
 (108,747,058)
 (112,874,121)
 (957,490)
 (995,038)
Gross profit
 18,928,592 
 26,081,631 
 679,573 
 467,152 
Dividend income
15
 - 
 - 
 8,346,260 
 6,367,610 
Other operating income
16.1
 2,626,544 
 2,241,751 
 40,610 
 45,737 
Selling and distribution expenses
 (4,761,037)
 (5,518,526)
 - 
 - 
Administrative expenses
 (12,927,716)
 (13,143,112)
 (1,050,270)
 (1,186,005)
Other operating expenses
16.2
 (1,314,409)
 (2,872,908)
 (21,473)
 (25,939)
Results from operating activities
 2,551,974 
 6,788,836 
 7,994,700 
 5,668,555 
Finance cost
17
 (4,669,206)
 (3,165,519)
 (1,244,941)
 (237,046)
Finance income
17
 10,688,722 
 9,357,342 
 4,617,329 
 3,822,342 
Change in insurance contract liabilities
36.2
 (7,031,692)
 (5,617,431)
 - 
 - 
Change in fair value of investment property
24
 (253,425)
 573,373 
 - 
 - 
Share of results of equity accounted investees (net of tax)
27.3
 4,158,793 
 4,466,457
 - 
-
 
Profit before tax 
 5,445,166 
 12,403,058
 11,367,088 
 9,253,851 
Tax expense
21.1
 (1,494,275)
 (2,662,263)
 (801,201)
 (614,311)
Profit for the year 
 3,950,891 
 9,740,795
 10,565,887 
 8,639,540 
Attributable to:
 
Equity holders of the parent
 4,772,100 
 9,413,788 
Non-controlling interests
 (821,209)
 327,007 
 3,950,891 
 9,740,795
 LKR.
 LKR.
Earnings per share
Basic
19.1
 3.62 
 7.14 
Diluted
19.2
 3.62 
 7.14 
Dividend per share
20
 1.50 
 3.50 
Figures in brackets indicate deductions.
The accounting policies and notes as set out in pages 202 to 282 form an integral part of these financial statements.

197
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
Note
2021
2020
2021
2020
In LKR '000s
Profit for the year
 3,950,891 
 9,740,795 
 10,565,887 
 8,639,540 
Other comprehensive income
Other comprehensive income to be reclassified to Income 
Statement in subsequent periods
Currency translation of foreign operations
 4,565,885 
 5,464,311 
 - 
 - 
Net gain/(loss) on cash flow hedges
 860,498 
 (935,954)
 729,316 
 - 
Net gain/(loss) on financial instruments at fair value through other 
comprehensive income
 414,991 
 500,154 
 - 
 - 
Share of other comprehensive income of equity accounted 
investees (net of tax)
 282,589 
 725,078 
 - 
 - 
Net other comprehensive income to be reclassified to Income 
Statement in subsequent periods
 6,123,963 
 5,753,589
 729,316 
-
Other comprehensive income not to be reclassified to Income 
Statement in subsequent periods
Net gain / (loss) on equity instruments at fair value through other 
comprehensive income
 3,260 
 22,028 
 3,297 
 15,024 
Revaluation of land and buildings
22.1
 477,030 
 2,855,920 
 - 
 - 
Re-measurement gain / (loss) on defined benefit plans
38.2
 (95,096)
 109,054 
 (2,135)
 7,840 
Share of other comprehensive income of equity accounted 
investees (net of tax)
 (33,843)
 74,729 
 - 
 - 
Net other comprehensive income not to be reclassified to Income 
Statement in subsequent periods
 351,351 
 3,061,731
 1,162 
 22,864
 
Tax on other comprehensive income
21.2
 (135,306) 
 (313,423)
 - 
-
 
 
Other comprehensive income for the period, net of tax
 6,340,008 
8,501,897
 730,478 
 22,864
 
Total comprehensive income for the period, net of tax 
 10,290,899 
 18,242,692
 11,296,365 
 8,662,404
Attributable to : 
Equity holders of the parent 
10,760,991
 16,581,451 
Non-controlling interests 
(470,092)
 1,661,241 
10,290,899
 18,242,692 
Figures in brackets indicate deductions.
The accounting policies and notes as set out in pages 202 to 282 form an integral part of these financial statements.

198   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
Note
2021
2020
2021
2020
In LKR '000s
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment
 22 
 113,076,642 
 111,533,759 
 110,801 
 144,353 
Right- of - use assets
 23 
 40,616,850 
 37,170,270 
 - 
 - 
Investment property
 24 
14,867,586 
 15,007,996 
 - 
 - 
Intangible assets
 25 
 4,852,978 
 3,288,989 
 97,522 
 102,542 
Investments in subsidiaries 
 26 
 - 
 - 
101,334,536
 87,835,917 
Investments in equity accounted investees
 27 
 28,629,936 
 28,329,492 
 10,596,880 
 10,381,881 
Non-current financial assets
 28 
 62,589,803 
 40,078,469 
 17,611,121 
 284,978 
Deferred tax assets
 21.4 
 1,089,027 
 902,382 
 - 
 - 
Other non-current assets
 29 
 104,580,215 
 79,582,749 
 92,668 
 18,842 
 370,303,037 
 315,894,106 
 129,843,528 
 98,768,513 
Current assets
Inventories
 30 
 54,296,123 
 50,168,754 
 - 
 - 
Trade and other receivables
 31 
 17,456,698 
 12,186,327 
 114,780 
 125,451 
Amounts due from related parties
44.1
 123,553 
 389,766 
 1,465,816 
 681,617 
Other current assets
 32 
 5,919,453 
 6,513,353 
 170,901 
 1,124,829 
Short term investments
 33 
 69,262,761 
 38,457,970 
 51,591,037 
 27,372,003 
Cash in hand and at bank
 19,432,579 
 13,333,743 
 305,373 
 176,662 
 166,491,167 
 121,049,913 
 53,647,907 
 29,480,562 
Total assets
 536,794,204 
 436,944,019 
 183,491,435 
 128,249,075 
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent
Stated capital
 34.1 
 63,101,661 
 62,881,295 
 63,101,661 
 62,881,295 
Revenue reserves
 90,651,930 
 87,885,071 
 68,216,871 
 59,631,436 
Other components of equity
 34.2 
 72,403,140 
 66,085,354 
 3,621,176 
 2,724,944 
 226,156,731 
 216,851,720 
 134,939,708 
 125,237,675 
Non-controlling interest
16,830,098 
 26,872,142 
 - 
 - 
Total equity
 242,986,829 
 243,723,862 
 134,939,708 
 125,237,675 
Non-current liabilities
Insurance contract liabilities
 36 
 45,160,611 
 38,185,839 
 - 
 - 
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
 37 
 118,965,640 
 50,925,346 
 44,179,490 
 289,705 
Lease liabilities
 23 
 24,234,968 
 19,910,124 
 - 
 - 
Deferred tax liabilities
 21.4 
 7,720,111 
 8,294,955 
 - 
 - 
Employee benefit liabilities
 38 
 2,814,006 
 2,343,911 
 231,369 
 171,450 
Non-current financial liabilities
 39 
 3,660,952 
 3,619,863 
 - 
 - 
Other non-current liabilities
 40 
 19,545,655 
 12,613,909 
 - 
 - 
 222,101,943 
 135,893,947 
 44,410,859 
 461,155 
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables
 41 
 35,287,700 
 23,881,479 
 372,711 
 423,393 
Amounts due to related parties
 44.2 
 1,385 
 2,073 
 13,181 
 777 
Income tax liabilities
 21.3 
 1,988,170 
 1,747,597 
 717,029 
 389,510 
Short term borrowings
 42 
 6,903,737 
 5,803,771 
 - 
 - 
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
 37 
 9,507,473 
 5,206,020 
3,007,368 
 316,042 
Lease liabilities
 23 
 1,472,297 
 1,382,662 
 - 
 - 
Other current financial liabilities
10.1
 2,991,093 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Other current liabilities
 43 
 1,733,398 
 1,623,137 
 20,796 
 3,375 
Bank overdrafts
 11,820,179 
 17,679,471 
 9,783 
 1,417,148 
 71,705,432 
 57,326,210 
 4,140,868 
 2,550,245 
Total equity and liabilities
 536,794,204 
 436,944,019 
 183,491,435 
 128,249,075 
I certify that the financial statements comply with the requirements of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007.
K M Thanthirige
Group Financial Controller
The Board of Directors is responsible for these financial statements.
K N J Balendra	
J G A Cooray
Chairman	
Deputy Chairman/Group Finance Director
The accounting policies and notes as set out in pages 202 to 282 form an integral part of these financial statements.
24 May 2021
Colombo

199
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
Note
2021
2020
2021
2020
In LKR '000s
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Profit before working capital changes
A
 4,470,462 
 9,358,543 
 (146,513)
 (491,479)
(Increase) / Decrease in inventories
 (3,987,355)
 762,708 
 - 
 - 
(Increase) / Decrease in trade and other receivables
 (1,066,095)
 5,905,226 
 (12,321)
 (251,054)
(Increase) / Decrease in other current assets
 (277,860)
 (446,750)
 953,120 
 (1,046,394)
(Increase) / Decrease in other non-current assets
(20,755,867)
 (42,265,062)
 (67,593)
 8,271 
Increase / (Decrease) in trade, other payables and other non-current liabilities 
 18,512,982 
 8,559,141 
 (37,394)
 118,036 
Increase / (Decrease) in other current liabilities and other current financial liabilities
 186,565 
 (1,384,363)
 17,421 
 (2,271)
Increase / (Decrease) in insurance contract liabilities
 6,974,772 
 5,352,781 
 - 
 - 
Cash generated from operations
4,057,604
 (14,157,776)
 706,720 
 (1,664,891)
Finance income received
 9,071,014 
 7,396,363 
 3,675,493 
 3,927,084 
Finance cost paid
 (2,100,700)
 (3,305,442)
 (791,933)
 (237,046)
Dividend received
 4,342,651 
 2,348,397 
 7,603,760 
 6,119,610 
Tax paid
 (1,269,419)
 (2,393,267)
 (473,682)
 (450,388)
Gratuity paid
 (276,410)
 (238,597)
 (7,968)
 (43,645)
Net cash flows from operating activities
13,824,740
 (10,350,322)
 10,712,390 
 7,650,724 
CASH FLOWS FROM/(USED IN) INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Purchase and construction of property, plant and equipment
22.1
 (5,367,019)
 (15,211,909)
 (9,077)
 (23,601)
Purchase of intangible assets
 (944,667)
 (386,663)
 (25,611)
 (33,953)
Addition to investment property
24
(113,015)
 (1,011)
 - 
 - 
Purchase of lease rights
 (3,645)
 (1,676,013)
 - 
 - 
Increase in interest in subsidiaries
 - 
 - 
 (14,398,397)
 (10,348,682)
Increase in interest in equity accounted investees
 (321,256)
 (242,589)
 (214,999)
 (95,389)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
 105,639 
 168,186 
 - 
 8,341 
Proceeds from sale of non-current investments
-
 - 
 - 
 2,008 
Proceeds from sale of financial instruments - fair valued through profit or loss
 1,717,107 
 1,036,510 
-
 - 
Proceeds from sale of a subsidiary
10
-
-
1,058,000
-
Purchase of financial instruments - fair valued through profit or loss
 (2,357,886)
 (970,704)
 - 
 - 
(Purchase) / disposal of deposits and government securities (net)
 (37,445,919)
 (9,427,923)
 (30,619,278)
 (8,176,399)
(Purchase) / disposal of other non-current financial assets (net)
28.4
 (213,287)
 (326,648)
 - 
-
Net cash flows from/(used in) investing activities
(44,943,948)
 (27,038,764)
 (44,209,362)
 (18,667,675)
CASH FLOWS FROM/(USED IN) FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Proceeds from issue of shares 
 158,978 
 55,569 
 158,978 
 55,569 
Changes in non-controlling interest
 (5,999,478)
 170 
-
 - 
Dividend paid to equity holders of parent
 (1,978,317)
 (4,614,133)
 (1,978,317)
 (4,614,133)
Dividend paid to shareholders with non-controlling interest
 (443,029)
 (647,601)
-
 - 
Proceeds from long term borrowings
37.1
 71,729,856 
 33,268,809 
 43,865,392 
 - 
Repayment of long term borrowings
37.1
 (6,753,731)
 (4,701,733)
 (540,608)
 (300,468)
Payment of principal portion of lease liability
 (2,386,808)
 (763,416)
 - 
 - 
Proceeds from (repayment of) other financial liabilities (net)
 1,099,966 
 (4,167,135)
 - 
 (4,000,010)
Net cash flows from / (used in) financing activities
 55,427,437 
 18,430,530 
 41,505,445 
 (8,859,042)
NET INCREASE / (DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
 24,308,229 
 (18,958,556)
 8,008,473 
 (19,875,993)
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT THE BEGINNING
 8,759,922 
 27,718,478 
 6,906,689 
 26,782,682 
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT THE END
 33,068,151 
 8,759,922 
 14,915,162 
 6,906,689 
ANALYSIS OF CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Favourable balances
Short term investments (less than 3 months)
33
 25,455,751 
 13,105,650 
 14,619,572 
 8,147,175 
Cash in hand and at bank
 19,432,579 
 13,333,743 
 305,373 
 176,662 
Unfavourable balances
Bank overdrafts
 (11,820,179)
 (17,679,471)
 (9,783)
 (1,417,148)
Total cash and cash equivalents
 33,068,151 
 8,759,922 
 14,915,162 
 6,906,689 
Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of financial position comprise cash at banks and in hand and short-term deposits with a maturity of three 
months or less. For the purpose of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and short-term deposits as defined above, net of 
outstanding bank overdrafts.
Figures in brackets indicate deductions.
The accounting policies and notes as set out in pages 202 to 282 form an integral part of these financial statements.	

200   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
Note
2021
2020
2021
2020
In LKR '000s
A 	 Profit before working capital changes
	
Profit before tax
 5,445,166 
 12,403,058 
 11,367,088 
 9,253,851 
	
Adjustments for:
Finance income
17  (10,688,722)
 (9,357,342)
 (4,617,329)
 (3,822,342)
Dividend income
15
 - 
 - 
 (8,346,260)
 (6,367,610)
Finance costs
17
 4,669,206 
 3,165,519 
 1,244,941 
 237,046 
Share based payment expense
35
 225,007 
 328,425 
 66,035 
 87,085 
Change in fair value of investment property
24
 253,425 
 (573,373)
 - 
 - 
Share of results of equity accounted investees
27.3
 (4,158,793)
 (4,466,457)
 - 
 - 
Profit on sale of non-current investments
16.1
-
 - 
 - 
 (2,008)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment
22.1,22.2
 4,725,534 
 4,185,820 
 42,629 
 33,532 
Provision for impairment losses 
16.2
 69,660 
 1,108 
 - 
 - 
(Profit) / loss on sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
16.1, 16.2
 6,005 
 97,007 
 - 
 (1,646)
Amortisation of right- of - use assets
23.1
 2,619,179 
 2,265,955 
 - 
 - 
Amortisation of intangible assets
25.1
 641,563 
 502,844 
 30,631 
 24,687 
Employee benefit provision and related costs
38
 651,409 
 605,736 
 65,752 
 65,926 
Unrealised (gain) / loss on foreign exchange (net)
 11,823 
 200,243 
 - 
 - 
 4,470,462 
 9,358,543 
 (146,513)
 (491,479)
COMPANY
In LKR '000s
Stated
capital
Other
capital
reserve
 Cash flow 
 hedge 
 reserve
 Fair value reserve
of financial assets
at FVOCI*
Revenue
reserve
Total
equity
As at 1 April 2019
 62,806,482 
 2,390,966 
-
 9,773 
 55,598,189 
 120,805,410 
Profit for the year
 - 
 - 
-
 - 
 8,639,540 
 8,639,540 
Other comprehensive income
 - 
 - 
-
 15,024 
 7,840 
 22,864 
Total comprehensive income
 - 
 - 
-
 15,024 
 8,647,380 
 8,662,404 
Exercise of share options
 55,569 
 - 
-
 - 
 - 
 55,569
Share based payments
 19,244 
 309,181 
-
 - 
 - 
 328,425
Final dividend paid - 2018/19
 - 
 - 
-
 - 
 (1,318,173)
 (1,318,173)
Interim dividends paid - 2019/20
 - 
 - 
-
 - 
 (3,295,960)
 (3,295,960)
As at 31 March 2020
 62,881,295 
 2,700,147 
-
 24,797 
 59,631,436 
 125,237,675 
Profit for the year
-
-
-
-
 10,565,887 
 10,565,887 
Other comprehensive income
 - 
 - 
 729,316 
 3,297 
 (2,135)
 730,478 
Total comprehensive income
 - 
 - 
 729,316 
 3,297 
 10,563,752 
 11,296,365 
Exercise of share options
 158,978 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 158,978 
Share based payments
 61,388 
 163,619 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 225,007 
Interim dividends paid - 2020/21
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (1,978,317)
 (1,978,317)
As at 31 March 2021
 63,101,661 
 2,863,766 
 729,316 
 28,094 
 68,216,871 
 134,939,708 
* Fair value through other comprehensive income. 
Figures in brackets indicate deductions. 
The accounting policies and notes as set out in pages 202 to 282 form an integral part of these financial statements.

201
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
Attributable to equity holders of the parent
GROUP
In LKR ‘000s
Stated
capital 
Restricted 
regulatory
reserve
Revaluation
reserve
Foreign
currency
translation
reserve
 Cash flow 
 hedge 
 reserve 
Other
capital
reserve
 Fair value 
reserve
of financial 
assets
at FVOCI*
 Revenue 
 reserve
Total
Non
controlling
interests
Total
equity
As at 1 April 2019
 62,806,482 
 3,509,194 
 35,931,552 
 15,939,589 
 402,646 
 2,390,966 
 472,169 
 82,834,219  204,286,817 
 26,071,923  230,358,740 
Profit for the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 9,413,788 
 9,413,788 
 327,007 
 9,740,795 
Other comprehensive income
 - 
 - 
 1,688,441 
 5,716,075 
 (911,126)
 - 
 622,661 
 51,612 
 7,167,663 
 1,334,234 
 8,501,897 
Total comprehensive income
 - 
 - 
 1,688,441 
 5,716,075 
 (911,126)
 - 
 622,661 
 9,465,400 
 16,581,451 
 1,661,241 
 18,242,692 
Transfer to restricted regulatory reserve
 - 
 55,548 
 -
-
-
-
-
 (55,548)
 - 
-
-
Transfer from revaluation reserves to retained 
earnings
-
-
(42,373)
-
-
-
-
42,373
-
-
-
Exercise of share options
55,569
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
55,569
 - 
55,569
Share based payments
19,244
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 309,181 
 - 
 - 
328,425
 - 
328,425
Final dividend paid - 2018/19
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (1,318,173)
 (1,318,173)
 - 
 (1,318,173)
Interim dividends paid - 2019/20
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (3,295,960)
 (3,295,960)
 - 
 (3,295,960)
Subsidiary dividend to non-controlling 
interest
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 209,636 
 209,636 
 (857,237)
 (647,601)
Acquisition, disposal and changes in  
non-controlling interest
 - 
 - 
 831 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3,124 
 3,955 
 (3,785)
 170 
As at 31 March 2020
 62,881,295 
 3,564,742 
 37,578,451 
 21,655,664 
 (508,480)
 2,700,147 
 1,094,830 
 87,885,071  216,851,720 
 26,872,142  243,723,862 
Profit for the year
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
 4,772,100 
 4,772,100 
 (821,209)
 3,950,891 
Other comprehensive income
-
-
 199,092 
 4,768,460 
 857,504 
-
267,249
 (103,414)
5,988,891 
 351,117 
 6,340,008 
Total comprehensive income
 - 
 - 
 199,092 
 4,768,460 
 857,504 
 - 
267,249 
 4,668,686 
 10,760,991 
(470,092)
 10,290,899 
Transfer to restricted regulatory reserve
-
 61,862 
-
-
-
-
-
 (61,862)
 - 
-
-
Exercise of share options
 158,978 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
 158,978 
-
 158,978 
Share based payments
 61,388 
-
-
-
-
 163,619 
-
-
 225,007 
-
 225,007 
Interim dividends paid - 2020/21
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
 (1,978,317)
 (1,978,317)
-
 (1,978,317)
Subsidiary dividend to non-controlling 
interest
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
 137,268 
 137,268 
 (580,297)
 (443,029)
Acquisition, disposal and changes in  
non-controlling interest
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
1,084
1,084
 (8,991,655)
 (8,990,571)
As at 31 March 2021
 63,101,661 
 3,626,604 
 37,777,543 
 26,424,124 
 349,024 
 2,863,766 
1,362,079 
90,651,930
226,156,731
16,830,098  242,986,829 
* Fair value through other comprehensive income.
Figures in brackets indicate deductions.
 The accounting policies and notes as set out in pages 202 to 282 form an integral part of these financial statements. 

202   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE AND GROUP INFORMATION 
1. 	
Corporate information 
Reporting entity
John Keells Holdings PLC is a public limited liability Company 
incorporated and domiciled in Sri Lanka. The registered office and 
principal place of business of the Company is located at 117, Sir 
Chittampalam A Gardiner Mawatha, Colombo 2.
Ordinary shares of the Company are listed on the Colombo Stock 
Exchange. Global depository receipts (GDRs) of John Keells Holdings PLC 
are listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange.
John Keells Holdings PLC became the holding Company of the Group 
during the financial year ended 31 March 1986.
Consolidated financial statements
The financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 comprise 
“the Company” referring to John Keells Holdings PLC as the holding 
Company and “the Group” referring to the companies that have been 
consolidated therein. 
Approval of financial statements
The financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 were 
authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 24 May 2021.
Principal activities and nature of operations of the holding 
Company
John Keells Holdings PLC, the Group’s holding Company, manages 
a portfolio of investments consisting of a range of diverse business 
operations, which together constitute the John Keells Group, and 
provides function based services to its subsidiaries, jointly controlled 
entities and associates.
Responsibility for financial statements
The responsibility of the Board of Directors in relation to the financial 
statements is set out in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibility report 
in the Annual report.
Statements of compliance
The financial statements which comprise the income statement, 
statement of comprehensive income, statement of financial position, 
statement of changes in equity and the statement of cash flows, 
together with the accounting policies and notes (the “financial 
statements”) have been prepared in accordance with Sri Lanka 
Accounting Standards (SLFRS/ LKAS) as issued by the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka) and in compliance 
with the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007.
2. 	
Group information 
Subsidiaries , associates and joint ventures
The companies within the Group and its business activities are described 
in the Group Directory under the Supplementary Information section of 
the Annual Report.
There were no significant changes in the nature of the principal activities 
of the Company and the Group during the financial year under review.
BASIS OF PREPARATION AND OTHER SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING 
POLICIES
3. 	
Basis of preparation 
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on an accrual 
basis and under the historical cost convention except for investment 
properties, land and buildings, derivative financial instruments, fair 
value through profit or loss financial assets and financial instruments 
measured at fair value through other comprehensive income that have 
been measured at fair value.
Going Concern
In determining the basis of preparing the financial statements for 
the year ended 31 March 2021, based on available information, the 
management has assessed the prevailing and anticipated effects of 
COVID-19 on the Group Companies and the appropriateness of the use 
of the going concern basis. 	
It is the view of the management there are no material uncertainties that 
may cast significant doubt on the Groups’ ability to continue to operate 
as a going concern due to the improved operating environment despite 
the ongoing effects of the pandemic and the operationalisation of risk 
mitigation initiatives and continuous monitoring of business continuity 
and response plans at each business unit level along with the financial 
strength of the Group. The management has formed judgment that the 
Company, its subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures have adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable 
future and continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing and 
presenting these financial statements.
In determining the above significant management judgements, 
estimates and assumptions, the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic has 
been considered as of the reporting date and specific considerations 
have been disclosed under the relevant notes.
Presentation of functional currency
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sri Lankan 
Rupees (LKR), which is the primary economic environment in which the 
holding Company operates. Each entity in the Group uses the currency 
of the primary economic environment in which they operate as their 
functional currency. 
The following subsidiaries are using different functional currencies other 
than Sri Lankan Rupees (LKR):
Country of 
incorporation
Functional 
Currency
Name of the Subsidiary 
India
Indian Rupee (INR) Serene Holidays (Pvt) Ltd
Singapore
Singapore Dollar 
(SGD)
John Keells Singapore (Pte) Ltd
Republic of 
Maldives
United States 
Dollar (USD)
Fantasea World Investments (Pte) Ltd
John Keells Maldivian Resort (Pvt) Ltd
Mack Air Services Maldives (Pte) Ltd
Tranquility (Pte) Ltd
Travel Club (Pte) Ltd
Mauritius
United States 
Dollar (USD)
John Keells BPO Holdings (Pvt) Ltd
John Keells BPO International (Pvt) 
Ltd
Sri Lanka
United States 
Dollar (USD)
Waterfront Properties (Pvt) Ltd

203
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
Each material class of similar items is presented cumulatively in the 
Financial Statements. Items of dissimilar nature or function are presented 
separately unless they are immaterial as permitted by the Sri Lanka 
Accounting Standard-LKAS 1 on ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’.
All values are rounded to the nearest rupees thousand (LKR ’000) except 
when otherwise indicated.
The significant accounting policies are discussed with relevant individual 
notes.
The indicative US Dollar financial statements under Supplementary 
Information section of the Annual Report do not form a part of the 
financial statements prepared in accordance with SLFRS/LKAS.	
Comparative information
The presentation and classification of the financial statements of the 
previous years have been amended, where relevant including the 
following for better presentation and to be comparable with those of 
the current year.
4. 	
Summary of significant accounting policies 
Summary of significant accounting policies have been disclosed along 
with the relevant individual notes in the subsequent pages.
Those accounting policies presented with each note, have been applied 
consistently by the Group.
Other significant accounting policies not disclosed with 
individual notes
Following accounting policies, which have been applied consistently by 
the Group, are considered to be significant but not covered in any other 
sections.
Current versus non-current classification 
The Group presents assets and liabilities in statement of financial 
position based on current/non-current classification. An asset as current 
when it is:
• 	 Expected to be realised or intended to be sold or consumed in normal 
operating cycle
• 	 Held primarily for the purpose of trading
• 	 Expected to be realised within twelve months after the reporting 
period, or
• 	 Cash or cash equivalent unless restricted from being exchanged or 
used to settle a liability for at least twelve months after the reporting 
period
All other assets are classified as non-current.
A liability is current when:
• 	 It is expected to be settled in normal operating cycle
• 	 It is held primarily for the purpose of trading 
• 	 It is due to be settled within twelve months after the reporting period
• 	 There is no unconditional right to defer the settlement of the liability 
for at least twelve months after the reporting period
The Group classifies all other liabilities as non-current. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as non-current assets and 
liabilities. 
Foreign currency translation, foreign currency  
transactions and balances
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sri Lanka Rupees 
(LKR), which is the Company’s functional and presentation currency. 
The functional currency is the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the entities of the Group operate. All foreign 
exchange transactions are converted to functional currency, at the 
rates of exchange prevailing at the time the transactions are effected. 
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currency are 
retranslated to functional currency equivalents at the spot exchange rate 
prevailing at the reporting date.	
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in 
a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the 
dates of the initial transactions. Non monetary assets and liabilities are 
translated using exchange rates that existed when the values were 
determined. The gain or loss arising on translation of non-monetary 
items is treated in line with the recognition of gain or loss on changing 
fair value of the item.	
Foreign operations
The statement of financial position and income statement of overseas 
subsidiaries and joint ventures which are deemed to be foreign 
operations are translated to Sri Lanka rupees at the rate of exchange 
prevailing as at the reporting date and at the average annual rate of 
exchange for the period respectively.
The exchange differences arising on the translation are taken directly 
to other comprehensive income. On disposal of a foreign entity, the 
deferred cumulative amount recognised in other comprehensive 
income relating to that particular foreign operation is recognised in the 
income statement.
The Group treated goodwill and any fair value adjustments to the 
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities arising on the acquisition as 
assets and liabilities of the parent. Therefore, those assets and liabilities 
are non-monetary items already expressed in the functional currency of 
the parent and no further translation differences occur.
5. 	
Significant accounting judgements, estimates and 
assumptions 
The preparation of the financial statements of the Group require the 
management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions, which 
may affect the amounts of income, expenditure, assets, liabilities and the 
disclosure of contingent liabilities, at the end of the reporting period.
Uncertainty about these assumptions and estimates could result in 
outcomes that require a material adjustment to the carrying amount of 
assets or liabilities affected in future periods. In the process of applying 
the Group’s accounting policies, management has made various 
judgements. Those which management has assessed to have the 
most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the consolidated 
financial statements have been discussed in the individual notes of the 
related financial statement line items.
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of 
estimation uncertainty at the reporting date, that have a significant 
risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets 

204   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
and liabilities within the next financial year, are also described in the 
individual notes to the financial statements. The Group based its 
assumptions and estimates on parameters available when the financial 
statements were prepared. Existing circumstances and assumptions 
about future developments, however, may change due to market 
changes or circumstances arising that are beyond the control of the 
Group. Such changes are reflected in the assumptions when they occur.
The items which have most significant effect on accounting, 
judgements, estimate and assumptions are as follows;
a)	Going concern basis
b)	Valuation of property, plant and equipment and investment property
c)	Impairment of non-financial assets
d)	Share based payments
e)	Taxes
f)	Employee benefit liability
g)	Valuation of insurance contract liabilities
h)	Provision for expected credit losses of trade receivables and contract 
assets
i)	 Leases 
The Group performed impairment testing for non-current assets with 
the indicators of impairment in accordance with the accounting policies 
stated in Note 22 Property, Plant and equipment, Note 23 Right of use 
assets, Note 24 Investment property and Note 25 Intangible assets. 
An impairment loss is recognized for the amount by which the asset’s 
carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable 
amounts of cash generating units are the higher of asset’s fair value less 
costs of disposals and value in use. These calculations require the use 
of estimates, assumptions and judgements. Value in use calculations 
were based on cash flow projections as at 31 March 2021. The cash 
flow projections are derived from the approved business plans and 
assumptions which are unique for each industry segment.  The Leisure 
industry Group assets were tested for impairment as of 31 March 2021. 
The key assumptions used in determining the value in use calculations 
were - occupancy rates, room revenue, food revenue and beverage 
revenue. The discount rate used is the risk free rate, adjusted by the 
addition of an appropriate risk premium.
The Group assesses the fair value of its property, plant and equipment 
and investment property based on valuations determined by 
independent qualified valuers’ best estimate based on the market 
conditions that prevailed, which in the valuers’ considered opinion, 
meets the requirements in SLFRS-13 Fair Value Measurement.
In view of the cash flow projections, no provision for impairment losses is 
considered necessary after reviewing the impairment assessment.
6. 	
Changes in accounting standards 
The Group applied for the first-time certain standards and amendments, 
which are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 
2020.
Amendments to SLFRS 16 COVID-19 Related Rent Concessions
The amendments provide relief to lessees from applying SLFRS 16 
guidance on lease modification accounting for rent concessions arising 
as a direct consequence of the COVID-19 pandemic. As a practical 
expedient, a lessee may elect not to assess whether a COVID-19 related 
rent concession from a lessor is a lease modification.
A lessee that makes this election accounts for any change in lease 
payments resulting from the COVID-19 related rent concession the same 
way it would account for the change under SLFRS 16, if the change were 
not a lease modification. The Group has applied practical expedient for 
COVID-19 related rent concessions.
The following amendments and improvements do not expect to have a 
significant impact on the Group's financial statements.
	 Amendments to SLFRS 3: Definition of a Business
	 Amendments to LKAS 1 and LKAS 8 Definition of Material
	 Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting
7.	
 Standards issued but not yet effective
SLFRS 17 - Insurance Contracts
As recommended by the Accounting Standards Committee, the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka has decided to adopt SLFRS 
17 Insurance Contracts with effective from annual reporting periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2023.
Early adoption is permitted if the regulator permits along with the 
adoption of SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments and SLFRS 15 Revenue from 
Contracts with Customers. SLFRS 17 supersedes SLFRS 4 Insurance 
Contracts. Union Assurance PLC (the company), a subsidiary company of 
the Group intends to adopt the new standard on its mandatory effective 
date, alongside the adoption of SLFRS 9.
SLFRS 4 permitted insurers to continue to use the statutory basis of 
accounting for insurance assets and liabilities that existed in their 
jurisdictions prior to January 2005. SLFRS 17 replaces this with a new 
measurement model for all insurance contracts.
SLFRS 17 requires liabilities for insurance contracts to be recognised 
as the present value of future cash flows, incorporating an explicit risk 
adjustment, which is updated at each reporting date to reflect current 
conditions, and a contractual service margin (CSM) that is equal and 
opposite to any day-one gain arising on initial recognition. Losses 
are recognised directly into the income statement. For measurement 
purposes, contracts are grouped together into contracts of similar risk, 
profitability profile and issue year, with further divisions for contracts that 
are managed separately.
Profit for insurance contracts under SLFRS 17 is represented by the 
recognition of the services provided to policyholders in the period 
(release of the CSM), release from non-economic risk (release of risk 
adjustment) and investment profit.
The CSM is released as profit over the coverage period of the insurance 
contract, reflecting the delivery of services to the policyholder. For 
certain contracts with participating features (where a substantial share 
of the fair value of the related investments and other underlying items 
is paid to policyholders) such as the company’s with-profits products, 
the CSM reflects the variable fee to shareholders. For these contracts, 
the CSM is adjusted to reflect the changes in economic experience and 

205
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
assumptions. For all other contracts the CSM is only adjusted for non-
economic assumptions.
SLFRS 17 introduces a new measure of insurance revenue, based on 
the delivery of services to policyholders and excluding any premiums 
related to the investment elements of policies, which will be significantly 
different from existing premium revenue measures, currently reported 
in the income statement. In order to transition to SLFRS 17, the amount 
of deferred profit, being the CSM at transition date, needs to be 
determined.
SLFRS 17 requires this CSM to be calculated as if the standard had 
applied retrospectively. However if this is not practical an entity is 
required to choose either a simplified retrospective approach or to 
determine the CSM by reference to the fair value of the liabilities at 
the transition date. The approach for determining the CSM will have a 
significant impact on both shareholders’ equity and on the amount of 
profits on in-force business in future reporting periods.
SLFRS 17 Implementation Programme - Union Assurance PLC
SLFRS 17 is expected to have a significant impact as the requirements 
of the new standard are complex and requires a fundamental change 
to accounting for insurance contracts as well as the application of 
significant judgement and new estimation techniques. The effect of 
changes required to the company’s accounting policies as a result 
of implementing these standards are currently uncertain, but these 
changes can be expected to, among other things, alter the timing of 
SLFRS profit recognition. Given the implementation of this standard is 
likely to involve significant enhancements to IT, actuarial and finance 
systems of the company, it will also have an impact on the company’s 
expenses.
The company has an implementation programme underway to 
implement SLFRS 17 and SLFRS 9. The programme is responsible for 
setting accounting policies and developing application methodologies, 
establishing appropriate processes and controls, sourcing appropriate 
data and implementing actuarial and finance system changes.	
The Steering Committee, chaired by the Chief Financial Officer and 
Chief Actuarial Officer provides oversight and strategic direction to the 
implementation programme. 
The company remains on track to start providing SLFRS 17 financial 
statements in line with the requirements for interim reporting at its 
effective date, which is currently expected to be 2023.
The following amendments and improvements are not expected to have 
a significant impact on the Group’s financial statements. 
	 Amendments to LKAS 1 : Classification of liabilities as Current or Non-
current.
	 Amendments to SLFRS 3: Reference to the Conceptual Framework.
	 Amendments to LKAS 16 : Property, Plant & Equipment - Proceeds 
before Intended Use
	 Amendments to LKAS 37 : Onerous Contracts - Cost of Fulfilling a 
Contract.
	 Amendments to SLFRS 7, SLFRS 9 and LKAS 39 : Interest Rate 
Benchmark Reform - Phase 2.  
	 Amendments to SLFRS 9, LKAS 39, SLFRS 7, SLFRS 4 and SLFRS 16 : 
Interest Rate Benchmark Reform - Phase 2.  
GROUP BUSINESS, OPERATIONS AND MANAGEMENT 
8.	
Operating segment information 
Accounting policy 
The Group’s internal organisation and management is structured 
based on individual products and services which are similar in nature 
and process and where the risks and returns are similar. The operating 
segments represent this business structure. 
In addition, segments are determined based on the Group’s 
geographical spread of operations as well. The geographical analysis 
of turnover and profits are based on location of customers and assets 
respectively. 
The activities of each of the operating business segments of the Group 
are detailed in the Group directory in the Supplementary section of the 
Annual report.
The Group has now organised its business units into seven reportable 
operating segments based on their products and services as follows: 
Transportation
This operating segment provides an array of transportation related 
services, which comprise of a container terminal in the Port of Colombo, 
a marine bunkering business, domestic airline, joint venture/associations 
with leading shipping, logistics and air transportation multinationals as 
well as travel and airlines services in Sri Lanka and the Maldives.
Consumer Foods
Consumer foods segment focuses on manufacturing of a wide 
range of soft drinks, dairy products, ice creams and processed foods 
which competes in three major categories namely beverages, frozen 
confectionery and convenience foods.
Retail
Retail segment focuses on modern organised retailing through a chain 
of supermarkets and distribution of printers, copiers, smart phones and 
other office automation equipment.
Leisure
The leisure segment comprises of five-star city hotels, a lean luxury hotel, 
resort hotels spread across prime tourist locations in Sri Lanka, as well as 
destination management business in Sri Lanka.
Property
Property segment concentrates primarily on property development, 
renting of commercial office spaces and management of the Group’s real 
estate.
Financial Services
The segment engages in a broad range of financial services including 
insurance, commercial banking, debt trading, fund management, leasing 
and stock broking. 
Others
This reportable segment represents companies in the plantation 
industry, Information technology, management and holding Company 
of the Group as well as several ancillary companies.

206   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
8.1 	
Business segments
Transportation
Consumer Foods
Retail
For the year ended 31 March
In LKR ‘000s
2021
2020
2021
2020
2021
2020
Disaggregation of revenue - Timing of revenue recognition
Goods transferred at a point in time 
 16,198,223 
 22,592,648 
17,003,814
18,515,394
 70,314,670 
 64,803,715 
Services transferred over time
 2,204,952 
 2,467,810 
-
 - 
 84,997 
 95,978 
Total segment revenue
 18,403,175 
 25,060,458 
17,003,814
18,515,394
 70,399,667 
 64,899,693 
Elimination of inter segment revenue
External revenue
Segment results
 863,752 
 1,070,319 
 2,450,905 
 2,472,843 
 3,382,058 
 3,168,185 
Finance cost
 (78,043)
 (133,389)
 (150,881)
 (229,646)
 (1,679,343)
 (1,704,037)
Finance income
 134,793 
 152,238 
 41,725 
 51,720 
 110,156 
 44,821 
Change in fair value of investment property
-
 - 
 3,873 
 42,388 
-
 - 
Share of results of equity accounted investees 
 2,422,382 
 2,997,682 
-
 - 
-
 - 
Eliminations / adjustments
-
 - 
 (48,636)
 (6,981)
 4,738 
 (16,859)
Profit / (loss) before tax
 3,342,884 
 4,086,850
 2,296,986 
 2,330,324
 1,817,609 
 1,492,110
Tax expense
 (96,633)
 (125,128)
 (140,723)
 (685,920)
 (248,762)
 (421,897)
 
 
 
Profit/ (loss) for the year
 3,246,251
 3,961,722
 2,156,263
 1,644,404
 1,568,847
 1,070,213
 Purchase and construction of PPE* 
 100,490 
 240,974 
 626,423 
 1,197,535 
 2,712,459 
 3,431,613 
 Addition to IA* 
 500 
 710 
 210,597 
 3,957 
 1,167,094 
 271,521 
 Depreciation of PPE* 
 202,331 
 195,087 
 852,524 
 843,738 
 1,180,975 
 1,063,266 
 Amortisation of IA* 
 1,517 
 2,167 
 3,681 
 2,568 
 138,900 
 76,006 
 Amortisation of ROU* 
 59,858 
 - 
 6,222 
 5,991 
 915,755 
 773,765 
 Employee benefit provision and related costs 
 29,276 
 28,046 
 118,387 
 102,184 
 90,868 
 74,053 
In addition to segment results, information such as finance costs / income, tax expenses has been allocated to segments for better presentation.
* PPE - Property, plant and equipment, IA - Intangible assets, ROU - Right-of-use assets
Segment information has been prepared in conformity with the 
accounting policies adopted for preparing and presenting the 
consolidated financial statements of the Group.
No operating segments have been aggregated to form the above 
reportable operating segments. An individual segment manager is 
determined for each operating segment and the results are regularly 
reviewed by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors monitors 
the operating results of its business units separately for the purpose 
8.	
Operating segment information (Contd.)
of making decisions about resource allocation and performance 
assessment. Segment performance is evaluated based on operating 
profit or loss which in certain respects, as explained in the operating 
segments’ information, is measured differently from operating profit 
or loss in the consolidated financial statements. However, except the 
Financial Services segment, other segments’ financing activities are 
managed on a group basis and are not allocated to operating segments. 
Pricing between operating segments comply with the arm’s length 
principals relating to transfer pricing in the ordinary course of business. 

207
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
Leisure
Property
Financial Services
Others
Group Total
2021
2020
2021
2020
2021
2020
2021
2020
2021
2020
 - 
 - 
 228,757 
 - 
-
 - 
 2,346,224 
 2,109,139 
 106,091,688 
 108,020,896 
 5,411,731 
17,634,628
 578,193 
 826,212 
 13,601,023 
 11,249,518 
 3,968,823 
 3,811,329 
 25,849,719 
 36,085,475 
 5,411,731 
17,634,628
 806,950 
 826,212 
 13,601,023 
 11,249,518 
 6,315,047 
 5,920,468 
 131,941,407 
 144,106,371 
 (4,265,757)
 (5,150,619)
127,675,650 
 138,955,752 
 (7,555,464)
 (969,286)
 40,590 
 (175,195)
 1,773,064 
 1,233,475 
 (131,794)
 (823,932)
 823,111 
 5,976,409 
 (1,192,991)
 (670,849)
 (16,800)
 (30,262)
 (274,019)
 (61,028)
 (1,277,129)
 (336,308)
 (4,669,206)
 (3,165,519)
 170,104 
 250,928 
 64,656 
 148,174 
 153,351 
 200,655 
 4,716,984 
 3,924,111 
 5,391,769 
 4,772,647 
 16,250 
 21,504 
 (291,262)
 455,085 
 - 
 - 
 17,714 
 54,396 
 (253,425)
 573,373 
 (70,829)
 (8,307)
 99,417 
 95,173 
 1,707,823 
 1,381,909 
-
 - 
 4,158,793 
 4,466,457 
 105,995 
 (164,180)
 (33,046)
 (30,800)
 - 
 - 
(34,927)
 (1,489)
 (5,876)
 (220,309)
 (8,526,935)
 (1,540,190)
 (136,445)
 462,175 
 3,360,219 
 2,755,011 
3,290,848
 2,816,778 
5,445,166 
 12,403,058 
 929,329
 (7,929)
 (139,428)
 (136,636)
 (863,062)
(532,793)
 (934,996)
(751,960)
 (1,494,275)
 (2,662,263)
 (7,597,606)
 (1,548,119)
 (275,873)
 325,539 
 2,497,157
2,222,218
 2,355,852 
2,064,818
 3,950,891 
 9,740,795 
 1,708,144 
 9,836,772 
 91,219 
 293,421 
 56,395 
 85,462 
 71,889 
 126,132 
 5,367,019 
 15,211,909 
 20,452 
 24,669 
 - 
 - 
 733,987 
 35,961 
54,670
 49,845 
2,187,300
 386,663 
 2,206,781 
 1,819,606 
 45,867 
 48,830 
 84,148 
 86,176 
 152,908 
 129,117 
 4,725,534 
 4,185,820 
 67,735 
 65,215 
 6,658 
 6,750 
 383,053 
 318,080 
 40,019 
 32,058 
 641,563 
 502,844 
 1,489,624 
 1,347,421 
 22,582 
 19,866 
 125,049 
 117,737 
 89 
 1,175 
 2,619,179 
 2,265,955 
 199,193 
 195,339 
 7,091 
 2,855 
 67,914 
 72,615 
 138,680 
 130,644 
 651,409 
 605,736 

208   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
8.	
Operating segment information (Contd.)
8.2.	
Business segments
The following table presents segment assets and liabilities of the Group’s business segments. 
Transportation
Consumer Foods
Retail
As at 
In LKR ‘000s
 31.03.2021 
 31.03.2020  31.03.2021 
 31.03.2020 
 31.03.2021 
 31.03.2020 
 Property, plant and equipment 
 955,742 
 1,058,895 
 9,729,769 
 9,787,579 
 14,343,328 
 12,759,302 
 Right-of-use-assets 
 161,528 
 2,420 
 232,942 
 238,275 
 9,361,332 
 8,405,902 
 Investment property 
 - 
 - 
 300,295 
 296,421 
 - 
 - 
 Intangible assets 
 7,949 
 8,342 
 464,637 
 249,290 
 1,606,164 
 535,896 
 Non-current financial assets 
 153,107 
 153,004 
 177,598 
 172,527 
 157,731 
 132,965 
 Other non-current assets 
 14,867 
 20,486 
 58,377 
 55,962 
 1,015,907 
 881,782 
 Segment non-current assets 
 1,293,193 
 1,243,147 
 10,963,618 
 10,800,054 
 26,484,462 
 22,715,847 
 Investments in equity accounted investees 
 12,208,454 
 13,444,422 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Deferred tax assets 
 Goodwill 
 Eliminations / adjustments 
 Total non-current assets 
 Inventories 
 333,102 
 729,864 
 2,252,476 
 2,065,766 
 7,276,679 
 5,361,774 
 Trade and other receivables 
 1,925,320 
 1,896,377 
 3,167,757 
 2,623,940 
 2,990,445 
 2,649,605 
 Short term investments 
 100,369 
 205,320 
 514 
 14,706 
 3,753,429 
 449,088 
 Cash in hand and at bank 
 3,697,218 
 4,495,130 
 200,993 
 323,546 
 2,716,348 
 240,814 
 Segment current assets 
 6,056,009 
 7,326,691 
 5,621,740 
 5,027,958 
 16,736,901 
 8,701,281 
 Other current assets 
 Eliminations / adjustments 
 Total current assets 
 Total assets 
 Insurance contract liabilities 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 
 31,889 
 - 
 627,335 
 1,080,214 
 4,600,000 
 - 
 Lease liabilities 
 163,747 
 2,333 
 102,340 
 87,887 
 8,756,050 
 7,334,023 
 Employee benefit liabilities 
 112,944 
 94,899 
 659,432 
 548,681 
 339,146 
 254,210 
 Non-current financial liabilities 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Other non-current liabilities 
 - 
 - 
 101,054 
 117,940 
 - 
 - 
 Segment non-current liabilities 
 308,580 
 97,232 
 1,490,161 
 1,834,722 
 13,695,196 
 7,588,233 
 Deferred tax liabilities 
 Eliminations / adjustments 
 Total non-current liabilities 
 Trade and other payables 
 1,191,007 
 1,853,419 
 2,577,616 
 1,726,140 
 16,513,758 
 8,797,570 
 Short term borrowings 
 3,192,886 
 4,073,865 
 - 
 - 
 4,248,003 
 1,984,311 
 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 
 13,111 
 - 
 543,455 
 543,455 
 1,200,000 
-
 Lease liabilities
 - 
 - 
 1,110 
 11,043 
 337,921 
 237,954 
 Other current financial liabilities 
 - 
 - 
 - 
-
 - 
-
 Bank overdrafts 
 506,826 
 409,700 
 1,375,024 
 1,637,251 
 4,188,582 
 9,200,324 
 Segment current liabilities 
 4,903,830 
 6,336,984 
 4,497,205 
 3,917,889 
 26,488,264 
 20,220,159 
 Income tax liabilities 
 Other current liabilities 
 Eliminations / adjustments 
 Total current liabilities 
 Total liabilities 
 Total segment assets 
 7,349,202 
 8,569,838 
 16,585,358 
 15,828,012 
 43,221,363 
 31,417,128 
 Total segment liabilities 
 5,212,410 
 6,434,216 
 5,987,366 
 5,752,611 
 40,183,460 
 27,808,392 
Inter company investments made by the Group of companies have not been considered for the calculation of segment assets.

209
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
Leisure
Property
Financial Services
Others
Group Total
 31.03.2021 
 31.03.2020 
 31.03.2021 
 31.03.2020 
 31.03.2021 
 31.03.2020 
 31.03.2021 
 31.03.2020 
 31.03.2021 
 31.03.2020 
 57,793,645 
 57,493,120 
 4,802,630 
 4,795,211 
 2,463,891 
 2,491,822 
 1,362,978 
 1,377,581 
 91,451,983 
 89,763,510 
 29,163,573 
 26,859,174 
 220,666 
 225,680 
 298,767 
 278,669 
 35,978 
 37,155 
 39,474,786 
 36,047,275 
 4,429,456 
 4,522,725 
29,891,114
 31,311,293 
 - 
 - 
 2,125,423 
 865,776 
36,746,288
 36,996,215 
 260,848 
 308,129 
 834 
 29,336 
 1,807,054 
 1,316,147 
 194,592 
 158,098 
 4,342,078 
 2,605,238 
 7,021,227 
 6,722,027 
 43,951 
 227,449 
 43,570,046 
 38,561,535 
 17,998,486 
 333,040 
 69,122,146 
 46,302,547 
 24,891 
 37,318 
103,803,090
 78,973,882 
 91,000 
 112,579 
 114,461 
 32,954 
105,122,593
 80,114,963 
 98,693,640 
 95,942,493 
 138,762,285 
 115,562,851 
 48,230,758 
 42,760,752 
 21,831,918 
 2,804,604 
 346,259,874 
 291,829,748 
 1,430,014 
 1,394,583 
 1,982,710 
 1,883,293 
 13,008,759 
 11,607,194 
 - 
 - 
 28,629,936 
 28,329,492 
 1,089,027 
 902,382 
 738,596 
 738,596 
 (6,414,396)
 (5,906,112)
 370,303,037 
 315,894,106 
 362,738 
 426,131 
 43,872,141 
 41,407,129 
 14,843 
 12,514 
 255,930 
 198,206 
 54,367,909 
 50,201,384 
 879,635 
 3,340,894 
 221,386 
 121,086 
 7,623,070 
 1,184,041 
 3,147,434 
 1,038,157 
 19,955,047 
 12,854,100 
 2,764,348 
 3,199,538 
 286,992 
 888,226 
 13,457,845 
 8,205,827 
 52,254,596 
 27,661,442 
 72,618,093 
 40,624,147 
 1,469,552 
 1,463,798 
 7,925,556 
 1,726,800 
 887,497 
 1,063,919 
 2,458,360 
 2,117,976 
 19,355,524 
 11,431,983 
 5,476,273 
 8,430,361 
 52,306,075 
 44,143,241 
 21,983,255 
 10,466,301 
 58,116,320 
 31,015,781 
 166,296,573 
 115,111,614 
 5,919,453 
 6,513,353 
 (5,724,859)
 (575,054)
 166,491,167 
 121,049,913 
 536,794,204 
 436,944,019 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 45,160,611 
 38,185,839 
 - 
 - 
 45,160,611 
 38,185,839 
 20,137,034 
 17,350,581 
 55,878,945 
 38,358,644 
 - 
 - 
 44,198,156 
 289,705 
 125,473,359 
 57,079,144 
 14,983,915 
 12,321,600 
 462 
 432 
 182,797 
 163,849 
 - 
 - 
 24,189,311 
 19,910,124 
 894,015 
 813,935 
 23,427 
 110,174 
 247,261 
 204,579 
 537,781 
 317,434 
 2,814,006 
 2,343,912 
 - 
 - 
 3,660,951 
 3,619,863 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3,660,951 
 3,619,863 
 111,839 
 93,353 
 19,332,966 
 12,402,802 
 - 
 - 
 467 
 487 
 19,546,326 
 12,614,582 
 36,126,803 
 30,579,469 
 78,896,751 
 54,491,915 
 45,590,669 
 38,554,267 
 44,736,404 
 607,626 
 220,844,564 
 133,753,464 
 7,720,111 
 8,294,955 
 (6,462,732)
 (6,154,472)
 222,101,943 
 135,893,947 
 2,523,654 
 2,281,147 
 1,739,109 
 6,005,379 
 11,690,755 
 2,708,601 
 1,596,742 
 1,032,217 
 37,832,641 
 24,404,473 
 2,770,345 
 1,914,264 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 22,074 
 12,074 
 10,233,308 
 7,984,514 
 1,556,407 
 1,081,608 
 3,173,799 
 3,310,571 
 - 
-
 3,020,702 
 316,042 
 9,507,474 
 5,251,676 
 1,131,749 
 1,100,006 
 - 
 - 
 114,858 
 101,110 
 - 
 - 
 1,585,638 
 1,450,113 
 - 
 - 
 2,991,093 
 - 
 - 
-
 - 
 - 
 2,991,093 
 - 
 4,905,726 
 3,789,101 
 421,127 
 937,611 
 143,295 
 331,411 
 351,598 
 1,446,072 
 11,892,178 
 17,751,470 
 12,887,881 
 10,166,126 
 8,325,128 
 10,253,561 
 11,948,908 
 3,141,122 
 4,991,116 
 2,806,405 
 74,042,332 
 56,842,246 
1,988,170
 1,747,597 
 1,733,398 
 1,623,137 
 (6,058,468)
 (2,886,770)
71,705,432
 57,326,210 
293,807,375
 193,220,157 
 104,169,913 
 104,372,854 
 191,068,360 
 159,706,092 
 70,214,013 
 53,227,053 
 79,948,238 
 33,820,385 
 512,556,447 
 406,941,362 
 49,014,684 
 40,745,595 
 87,221,879 
 64,745,476 
 57,539,577 
 41,695,389 
 49,727,520 
 3,414,031 
 294,886,896 
 190,595,710 

210   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
8.	
Operating segment information (Contd.)
8.3	
 Business Segment analysis - Disaggregation of revenue - Business segment analysis 
GROUP
2021
2020
For the year ended 31 March
In LKR ‘000s
Sale of 
goods
Rendering
of services
Total
revenue
Sale of 
goods
Rendering
of services
Total
revenue
Transportation
 16,198,223 
 1,220,234 
 17,418,457 
 22,592,648 
 1,356,183 
 23,948,831 
Consumer Foods 
 16,510,040 
 - 
 16,510,040 
 17,004,471 
 - 
 17,004,471 
Retail
 70,143,914 
 84,742 
 70,228,656 
64,666,622 
 95,465 
64,762,087 
Leisure
 - 
 5,356,272 
 5,356,272 
 - 
 17,598,572 
 17,598,572 
Property
 228,757 
 383,252 
 612,009 
 - 
 589,760 
 589,760 
Financial Services
 - 
 13,601,023 
 13,601,023 
 - 
 11,248,908 
 11,248,908 
Others
 2,346,224 
 1,602,969 
 3,949,193 
 2,109,139 
 1,693,984 
 3,803,123 
Group revenue
 105,427,158 
 22,248,492 
 127,675,650 
 106,372,880 
 32,582,872 
138,955,752 
8.4 	
 Disaggregation of revenue - Geographical segment analysis (by location of customers) 
GROUP
For the year ended 31 March
In LKR ‘000s
2021
2020
Sri Lanka
 110,068,147 
98,895,204 
Asia (excluding Sri Lanka)
 8,063,051 
 15,895,870 
Europe
 6,299,503 
 12,503,073 
Others
 3,244,949 
 11,661,605 
Group external revenue
 127,675,650 
138,955,752
8.5 	
 Geographical segments, based on the location of assets 
Sri Lanka
Asia 
(excluding Sri Lanka)
Group Total
In LKR ‘000s
2021
2020
2021
2020
2021
2020
Group external revenue
 124,969,829 
133,510,214 
 2,705,821 
5,445,538
 127,675,650 
 138,955,752 
Segment revenue
129,235,586
138,660,833 
2,705,821 
 5,445,538 
131,941,407
144,106,371 
Segment results
 3,462,853 
 5,505,362 
 (2,639,742)
 471,047 
 823,111 
 5,976,409 
Segment assets
461,374,360
 364,695,109 
 51,182,087 
 42,246,253 
512,556,447
 406,941,362 
Segment liabilities
255,946,546
 164,223,144 
38,940,350
26,372,566
294,886,896
190,595,710
Purchase and construction of property, plant 
and equipment
 4,593,497 
 9,771,472 
 773,522 
 5,440,437 
 5,367,019 
 15,211,909 
Purchase and construction of intangible assets
 2,187,299 
 386,663 
-
-
 2,187,299 
 386,663 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment
 3,719,193 
 3,562,006 
 1,006,341 
 623,814 
 4,725,534 
 4,185,820 
Amortisation of intangible assets
 641,563 
 502,844 
-
 - 
 641,563 
 502,844 
Amortisation of right- of - use assets
 1,193,160 
 981,484 
 1,426,019 
 1,284,471 
 2,619,179 
 2,265,955 
Employee benefit provision and related costs
 651,409 
 605,736 
-
 - 
 651,409 
 605,736 
Investments in equity accounted investees
 28,629,936
 28,329,492 
-
 - 
 28,629,936 
 28,329,492 

211
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
 9.	
 Basis of consolidation and material partly owned 
subsidiaries 
Accounting policy 
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial 
statements of the Group and its subsidiaries as at the end of reporting 
period. Control over an investee is achieved when the Group is 
exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the 
investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power 
over the investee.
Control over an investee 
Specifically, the Group controls an investee if, and only if, the Group has:
•	 Power over the investee (i.e., existing rights that give it the current 
ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee)
•	 Exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the 
investee
•	 The ability to use its power over the investee to affect its 
returns	
Consolidation of entities in which the Group holds less than a 
majority of voting rights 
When the Group has less than a majority of the voting or similar rights 
of an investee, the Group considers all relevant facts and circumstances 
in assessing whether it has power over an investee, including:
•	 The contractual arrangement with the other vote holders of the 
investee; 
•	 Rights arising from other contractual arrangements; and
•	 The Group’s voting rights and potential voting rights
Subsidiaries that are consolidated have been listed in the Group 
directory under Supplementary section of the annual report.
The following companies, with equity control equal to or less than 50%, 
have been consolidated as subsidiaries based on above criteria. 
 % Holding 
Rajawella Holdings Ltd
49.85
Mack Air Services Maldives (Pte) Ltd 
49.00
Tea Smallholder Factories PLC
37.62
The Group re-assesses whether or not it controls an investee, if facts and 
circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the 
three elements of control. Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the 
Group obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when the Group 
loses control of the subsidiary. Assets, liabilities, income and expenses of 
a subsidiary acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the 
consolidated financial statements from the date the Group gains control 
until the date the Group ceases to control the subsidiary.
Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive income 
(OCI) are attributed to the equity holders of the parent of the Group 
and to the non-controlling interests, even if this results in the non-
controlling interests having a deficit balance. The financial statements 
of the subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting period as the 
parent Company, which is 12 months ending 31 March, using consistent 
accounting policies.	
Transactions eliminated on consolidation 
All intra-group assets, liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash 
flows relating to transactions between members of the Group are 
eliminated in full on consolidation. A change in the ownership interest 
of a subsidiary, without a loss of control, is accounted for as an equity 
transaction.
Loss of control
If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it derecognises the related 
assets (including goodwill), liabilities, noncontrolling interest and other 
components of equity while any resultant gain or loss is recognised in 
the income statement. Any investment retained is recognised at fair 
value.
The total profits and losses for the year of the Company and of its 
subsidiaries included in consolidation are shown in the consolidated 
income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive 
income and all assets and liabilities of the Company and of its 
subsidiaries included in consolidation are shown in the Consolidated 
Statement of Financial Position.
Non-controlling interest (NCI) 
Non-controlling interest which represents the portion of profit or loss 
and net assets not held by the Group, are shown as a component of 
profit for the year in the consolidated income statement and statement 
of comprehensive income and as a component of equity in the 
consolidated statement of financial position, separately from equity 
attributable to the shareholders of the parent.
The Consolidated Statement of Cash Flow includes the cash flows of the 
Company and its subsidiaries.

212   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 9.	
 Basis of consolidation and material partly owned subsidiaries (Contd.)
9.1 	
 Material partly-owned subsidiaries 
Financial information of subsidiaries that have material non-controlling interests (NCI) are provided below.
Leisure 
Consumer Foods
Retail
In LKR ‘000s
2021
2020
2021
2020
2021
2020
Summarised Income Statement for the period 
ending 31 March
Revenue
            5,411,731 
 19,290,291 
17,003,814 
 18,693,655 
70,399,667 
64,899,693
Operating cost
 (12,797,193)
 (19,972,792)
 (14,042,908)
 (15,436,296)
   (67,031,278)
 (62,799,780)
Finance cost
 (1,192,991)
 (670,849)
 (150,881)
 (230,477)
   (1,679,343)
 (1,722,573)
Finance income
 170,104 
 250,928 
 41,725 
 51,720 
 110,156 
 44,821 
Change in fair value of investment property
 (93,269)
 183,929 
 3,873 
 42,388 
 - 
 - 
Profit before tax 
 (8,392,099)
 (918,493)
 2,855,623 
 3,120,990 
 1,799,202 
 1,508,969 
Tax expense
 939,516 
 (8,694)
 (140,723)
 (685,920)
 (239,748)
 (418,149)
Profit for the year 
 (7,452,583)
 (927,187)
 2,714,900 
 2,435,070 
 1,559,454 
 1,090,820 
Other comprehensive income
 867,016 
 (1,814,198)
 219,530 
 1,163,154 
 812,868 
 (66,408)
Total comprehensive income
 (6,585,567)
 (2,741,385)
 2,934,430 
 3,598,224 
 2,372,322 
 1,024,412 
Profit/(loss) allocated to NCI
 (1,386,816)
 (271,607)
 379,676 
 295,106 
 95,882 
 125,508 
Dividend paid to NCI
 34,682 
 137,825 
 511,682 
 320,504 
 - 
 154,517 
Summarised Statement of Financial Position as 
at 31 March
Non-current assets
 98,693,640 
 95,942,493 
 10,963,618 
 10,800,054 
 26,484,462 
22,715,847
Current assets
 5,476,273 
 8,430,361 
 5,621,740 
 5,027,958 
 16,736,901 
8,701,281
Total assets
 104,169,913 
 104,372,854 
 16,585,358 
 15,828,012 
 43,221,363 
31,417,128
Non-current liabilities
 36,126,803 
30,579,469
 1,490,161 
1,834,722
 13,695,196 
 7,588,233 
Current liabilities
 12,887,881 
10,166,126
 4,497,205 
 3,917,889 
 26,488,264 
20,220,159
Total liabilities
 49,014,684 
40,745,595
 5,987,366 
5,752,611
 40,183,460 
27,808,392
Accumulated balances of NCI
10,236,551
 11,383,511 
4,403,591
 3,475,127 
1,162,478
 1,052,623 
Summarised Statement of Cash Flows for the 
year ended 31 March
Cash flows from/(used in) operating activities
 (2,138,318)
 2,621,334 
 3,224,581 
 2,160,094 
 9,656,339 
 4,760,370 
Cash flows from/(used in) investing activities
 (1,879,492)
 (11,075,782)
 (332,719)
 (415,661)
 (4,293,973)
 (3,152,935)
Cash flows from/(used in) financing activities
 1,851,082 
 5,891,583 
 (2,769,096)
 (2,423,421)
 5,052,179 
 (3,095,220)
Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash 
equivalents
 (2,166,728)
 (2,562,865)
 122,766 
 (678,988)
 10,414,545 
 (1,487,785)
The above information is based on amounts before inter-company eliminations.

213
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
Names of material partly-owned subsidiaries and effective holding % 
owned by non-controlling interest:
Material partly-owned subsidiary
2021
2020
Consumer Foods
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC
18.64%
18.64%
Keells Food Products PLC
11.37%
11.37%
The Colombo Ice Company (Pvt) Ltd
18.64%
18.64%
Retail
JayKay Marketing Services (Pvt) Ltd
18.64%
18.64%
Logipark International (Pvt) Ltd
18.64%
-
Leisure
Ahungalle Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
19.68%
19.68%
Asian Hotels and Properties PLC
21.44%
21.44%
Beruwala Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
20.22%
20.22%
Ceylon Holiday Resorts Ltd
20.40%
20.40%
Cinnamon Holidays (Pvt) Ltd
19.68%
19.68%
Fantasea World Investments (Pte) Ltd
19.68%
19.68%
Habarana Lodge Ltd
21.01%
21.01%
Habarana Walk Inn Ltd
20.66%
20.66%
Hikkaduwa Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
20.40%
20.40%
International Tourists and Hoteliers Ltd
20.22%
20.22%
John Keells Hotels PLC
19.68%
19.68%
John Keells Maldivian Resorts (Pte) Ltd
19.68%
19.68%
Kandy Walk Inn Ltd
20.97%
20.97%
Nuwara Eliya Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
19.68%
19.68%
Rajawella Hotels Company Ltd
19.68%
19.68%
Resort Hotels Ltd 
20.40%
20.40%
Serene Holidays (Pvt) Ltd
1.65%
1.65%
Tranquility (Pte) Ltd
19.68%
19.68%
Trans Asia Hotels PLC
17.26%
17.26%
Travel Club (Pte) Ltd
19.68%
19.68%
Trinco Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
19.68%
19.68%
Trinco Walk Inn Ltd
19.68%
19.68%
Walkers Tours Ltd 
1.95%
1.95%
Wirawila Walk Inn Ltd
19.68%
19.68%
Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd
24.67%
24.67%
Accounting judgements,estimates and assumptions
Consolidation of entities in which the Group holds less than a 
majority of voting right (de facto control).
The Group considers that it controls some subsidiaries even though it 
owns less than 50% of the voting rights. This is because the Group is the 
single largest shareholder of those subsidiaries with equity interest. The 
remaining equity shares in those subsidiaries are widely held by many 
other shareholders, and there is no history of the other shareholders 
collaborating to exercise their votes collectively or to outvote the Group.
Considering the Group balances, none of the individual partly-owned 
subsidiaries have material non-controlling interest. However, the above 
information has been presented on the aggregated interests in similar 
entities namely, the Leisure and Consumer Foods and Retail (CFR) 
segment, based on the nature and risks of the products and services.
10 .	
Business combinations and acquisitions of non-controlling 
interests 
Accounting policy 
Business combinations & goodwill
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method 
of accounting. The Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date as 
the fair value of the consideration transferred including the recognised 
amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree, less the net 
recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets 
acquired and liabilities assumed, all measured as of the acquisition date.
When the fair value of the consideration transferred including the 
recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree is 
lower than the fair value of net assets acquired, a gain is recognised 
immediately in the income statement. The Group elects on a 
transaction-by-transaction basis whether to measure non-controlling 
interests at fair value, or at their proportionate share of the recognised 
amount of the identifiable net assets, at the acquisition date. Transaction 
costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity 
securities, that the Group incurs in connection with a business 
combination are expensed as incurred. When the Group acquires a 
business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for 
appropriate classification and designation in accordance with the 
contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as 
at the acquisition date. If the business combination is achieved in stages, 
the acquisition date fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity 
interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date 
through profit or loss. Any contingent consideration to be transferred 
by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. 
Contingent consideration, resulting from business combinations, is 
valued at fair value at the acquisition date. Contingent consideration 
classified as equity is not remeasured and its subsequent settlement is 
accounted for within equity. Contingent consideration classified as an 
asset or liability that is a financial instrument and within the scope of 
SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments, is measured at fair value with the changes 
in fair value recognised in the Income Statement, in accordance with 
SLFRS 9.

214   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Other contingent consideration that is not within the scope of SLFRS 9 is 
measured at fair value at each reporting date with changes in fair value 
recognised in profit or loss.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any 
accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment, 
annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business 
combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the 
Group’s cash generating units that are expected to benefit from the 
combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the 
acquiree are assigned to those units.
Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of 
the cash-generating unit to which the goodwill relates. Where the 
recoverable amount of the cash generating unit is less than the carrying 
amount, an impairment loss is recognised. The impairment loss is 
allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated 
to the unit and then to the other assets pro-rata to the carrying amount 
of each asset in the unit. Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on 
the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities 
of the foreign operation and translated at the closing rate.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the 
operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated 
with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of 
the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the 
operation, goodwill disposed in this circumstance is measured based on 
the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the 
cash-generating unit retained.	
10. 	
Business combinations and acquisitions of non-controlling 
interests (Contd.)
Impairment of goodwill
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually (as at 31 March) when 
circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired. 
Impairment is determined for goodwill by assessing the recoverable 
amount of each cash-generating unit (or group of cash-generating units) 
to which the goodwill relates. Where the recoverable amount of the cash 
generating unit is less than their carrying amount, an impairment loss is 
recognised. Impairment losses relating to goodwill cannot be reversed in 
future periods.
10.1 	 Investment in subsidiaries
Waterfront Properties (Pvt) Ltd (WPL)
John Keells Holdings PLC (JKH) further invested LKR 8,418 Mn (2020 - LKR 
10,349 Mn) in WPL, a subsidiary of JKH involved in developing, owning, 
managing, operating, selling, leasing and renting of a luxury multi/mixed 
use Integrated Resort. 
J K Land (Pvt) Ltd (J K Land)
John Keells Holdings PLC (JKH) further invested LKR 5,980 Mn in JK Land 
to increase it's shareholding in Vauxhall Land Developments (Pvt) Ltd.
Vauxhall Land Developments (Pvt) Ltd (VLD)
JK Land (Pvt) Ltd Increased it's shareholding in VLD to 100% from 60.33% 
by acquiring the remaining stake in VLD for the cash and contingent 
consideration of LKR 8,971Mn. 
LKR ’000s
Cash consideration
5,980,392 
Contingent consideration
2,991,093 
Total consideration to acquire 39.67% stake in VLD
8,971,485 
Derecognition of non-controlling interest
9,167,122 
Equity adjustment due to changes in  
non-controlling interest
(195,637) 
8,971,485 
LogiPark International (Pvt) Ltd (LogiPark)
John Keells Holdings PLC (JKH) disposed LogiPark to JayKay Marketing 
Services (Pvt) Ltd (JMSL) for LKR 1,059 Mn resulted to decrease Group 
shareholding to 81.36% from 100%.

215
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
10.2	 Investment in equity accounted investees
Indra Hotels and Resorts Kandy (Pvt) Ltd (IHRK)
John Keells Hotels PLC has further invested LKR 131 Mn  
(2020 - LKR 145 Mn) in IHRK. Cinnamon Red will expand its footprint with 
the construction of Cinnamon Red Kandy. 
Saffron Aviation (Pvt) Ltd (Saffron)
John Keells Holdings PLC (JKH) further invested LKR 215 Mn in Saffron, 
the operating company of the domestic aviation operation  
'Cinnamon Air’.
11.	
 Financial risk management objectives and policies
The Group has loans and other receivables, trade and other receivables 
and cash and short-term deposits that arise directly from its operations. 
The Group also holds other financial instruments such as available 
for sale and fair value through profit or loss financial instruments and 
may enter into derivative transactions. The Group’s principal financial 
liabilities, comprise of loans and borrowings, trade and other payables 
and financial guarantee contracts. The main purpose of these financial 
liabilities is to finance the Group’s operations and to provide guarantees 
to support its operations. The financial risk governance framework 
provides assurance to the Group’s senior management that the 
Group’s financial risk activities are governed by appropriate policies 
and procedures and that financial risks are identified, measured and 
managed in accordance with the Group’s policies and risk objectives. The 
Group is exposed to market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
11.1 	  Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not meet its obligations 
under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading to a financial 
loss. The Group is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities 
(primarily trade receivables) and from its financing activities, including 
deposits with banks and financial institutions, foreign exchange 
transactions and other financial instruments.
The Group trades only with recognised, creditworthy third parties. It is 
the Group’s policy that all clients who wish to trade on credit terms are 
subject to credit verification procedures. In addition, receivable balances 
are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that the Group’s 
exposure to bad debts is not significant.
With respect to credit risk arising from the other financial assets of the 
Group, such as cash and cash equivalents, available-for-sale financial 
investments, investments, and certain derivative instruments, the Group’s 
exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty. The 
Group manages its operations to avoid any excessive concentration of 
counterparty risk and the Group takes all reasonable steps to ensure the 
counterparties fulfill their obligations.

216   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
11 .	
 Financial risk management objectives and policies (Contd.)
11.1.1 Risk exposure
The maximum risk positions of financial assets which are generally subject to credit risk are equal to their carrying amounts  
(without consideration of collateral, if available). Following table shows the maximum risk positions.	
As at 31 March
2021
In LKR ‘000s
Notes
 Non 
current 
financial 
assets 
Cash in 
hand and 
at bank
Trade
and other
receivables
Short term 
investments
Amounts 
due from 
related 
parties
Total
%
of 
allocation
Group
Government securities
11.1.2
 29,703,638 
 - 
 - 
 10,455,199 
 - 
 40,158,837 
24%
Corporate debt securities
11.1.3
 9,955,243 
 - 
 - 
 1,290,325 
 - 
 11,245,568 
7%
Deposits with banks
11.1.4
 18,871,021 
 - 
 - 
 54,045,971 
 - 
 72,916,992 
44%
Loans to executives
11.1.5
990,562 
 - 
 341,838 
 - 
 - 
 1,332,400 
1%
Loans to life policyholders
11.1.6
 1,840,841 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,840,841 
1%
Preference Shares 
11.1.7
 351,430 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
351,430
0%
Interest rate swap
11.1.8
 729,316 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 729,316 
1%
Trade and other receivables
11.1.9
 - 
 - 
 16,192,825 
 - 
 - 
 16,192,825 
10%
Reinsurance receivables
11.1.10
 - 
 - 
 589,306 
 - 
 - 
 589,306 
0%
Premium receivable
11.1.11
 - 
 - 
 332,729 
 - 
 - 
 332,729 
0%
Amounts due from related parties
11.1.12
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 123,553 
 123,553 
0%
Cash in hand and at bank
11.1.13
 - 
 19,432,579 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 19,432,579 
12%
Total credit risk exposure 
 62,442,051 
 19,432,579 
17,456,698 
 65,791,495 
 123,553  165,246,376 
100%
Financial assets at fair value through 
P&L
11.3.3.1
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3,471,266 
 - 
Financial assets at fair value through 
OCI
11.3.3.2
 147,752 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total equity risk exposure 
 147,752 
 - 
 - 
 3,471,266 
 - 
Total 
 62,589,803 
 19,432,579 
17,456,698 
 69,262,761 
 123,553 
Company
Government securities
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3,339,580 
 - 
 3,339,580 
5%
Corporate debt securities
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
-
Deposits with banks
11.1.4
 16,729,867 
 - 
 - 
 48,251,457 
 - 
 64,981,324 
92%
Loans to executives
11.1.5
 59,592 
 - 
 19,406 
 - 
 - 
 78,998 
0%
Interest rate swap
11.1.8
 729,316 
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 729,316 
1%
Trade and other receivables
11.1.9
 - 
 - 
 95,374 
 - 
 - 
 95,374 
0%
Amounts due from related parties
11.1.12
-
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,465,816 
 1,465,816 
2%
Cash in hand and at bank
11.1.13
 - 
 305,373 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 305,373 
0%
Total credit risk exposure 
 17,518,775 
 305,373 
 114,780 
 51,591,037 
 1,465,816 
 70,995,781 
100%
Financial assets at fair value through 
OCI
11.3.3.2
 92,346 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total equity risk exposure 
 92,346 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total 
 17,611,121 
 305,373 
 114,780 
 51,591,037 
 1,465,816 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

217
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
2020
 Non 
current 
financial 
assets 
Cash in 
hand and 
at bank
Trade
and other
receivables
Short term 
investments
Amounts 
due from 
related 
parties
Total
%
of 
allocation
 27,478,202 
 - 
 - 
 2,948,578 
 - 
 30,426,780 
30%
 8,038,787 
 - 
 - 
 553,010 
 - 
 8,591,797 
8%
 1,496,562 
 - 
 - 
 32,086,437 
 - 
 33,582,999 
33%
 971,913 
 - 
 324,551 
 - 
 - 
 1,296,464 
1%
 1,627,555 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,627,555 
2%
 320,957 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 320,957 
0%
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
-
 - 
 - 
 11,059,966 
 - 
 - 
 11,059,966 
11%
 - 
 - 
 421,297 
 - 
 - 
 421,297 
0%
 - 
 - 
 380,513 
 - 
 - 
 380,513 
0%
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 389,766 
 389,766 
0%
 - 
 13,333,743 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 13,333,743 
15%
39,933,976
 13,333,743 
 12,186,327 
 35,588,025 
 389,766 
101,431,837
100%
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2,869,945 
 - 
 144,493 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 144,493 
 - 
 - 
 2,869,945 
 - 
40,078,469
 13,333,743 
 12,186,327 
 38,457,970 
 389,766 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
-
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
-
 125,472 
 - 
 - 
 27,372,003 
 - 
 27,497,475 
96%
 70,457 
 - 
 19,721 
 - 
 - 
 90,178 
0%
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
 - 
 - 
 105,730 
 - 
 - 
 105,730 
0%
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 681,617 
 681,617 
3%
 - 
 176,662 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 176,662 
1%
 195,929 
 176,662 
 125,451 
 27,372,003 
 681,617 
 28,551,662 
100%
 89,049 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 89,049 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 284,978 
 176,662 
 125,451 
 27,372,003 
 681,617 

218   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
11. 	
 Financial risk management objectives and policies (Contd.)
11.1.2 Government securities 
As at 31 March 2021 as shown in table above, 24% (2020 - 30%) of 
debt securities comprise investments in government securities consist 
of treasury bonds, bills and reverse repo investments. Government 
securities are usually referred to as risk free due to the sovereign nature 
of the instrument.
GROUP
As at 31 March
2021
2020
Fitch ratings
 In LKR ’000s 
% 
 In LKR ’000s 
% 
AAA
 158,965 
1%
 158,992 
2%
AA+ 
 - 
-
 211,487 
2%
AA
 1,307,864 
12%
 740,194 
9%
AA- 
 1,074,244 
10%
 854,838 
10%
A+
 665,947 
6%
 1,133,742 
13%
A 
 2,665,685 
24%
 1,503,496 
17%
A-
 2,128,541 
19%
 1,562,950 
18%
BBB
 168,264 
1%
 - 
-
BBB+ 
 3,076,058 
27%
 2,426,098 
29%
Total 
 11,245,568 
100%
 8,591,797 
100%
11.1.4 Deposits with banks
Deposits with bank mainly consist of fixed and call deposits .
As at 31 March 2021, fixed and call deposits comprise 99% (2020 - 67%) and 100% (2020 - 74%) for the Group and Company respectively were rated “A” 
or better.
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2021
 2020
2021
2020
Fitch ratings
 In LKR
’000s 
% 
 In LKR
’000s 
% 
 In LKR
’000s 
% 
 In LKR
’000s 
%
AAA 
 2,358,274 
3%
 104,302 
0%
-
-
 - 
-
AA+
 367,612 
0%
 15,317,074 
46%
 - 
 - 
 14,827,036 
54%
AA
 - 
 - 
 203,598 
1%
 - 
 - 
 58,934 
0%
AA- 
 64,608,594 
89%
 312,661 
1%
62,764,844
97%
 66,538 
0%
A+
 4,238,545 
6%
 4,932,394 
15%
 2,216,480 
3%
 4,664,418 
17%
A 
 591,766 
1%
 1,440,291 
4%
 - 
 - 
 950,142 
3%
A-
 - 
 - 
 422,706 
1%
 - 
 - 
 422,706 
2%
B
 752,201 
1%
 10,849,973 
32%
 - 
 - 
 6,507,701 
24%
Total 
 72,916,992 
100%
 33,582,999 
100%
64,981,324
100%
 27,497,475 
100%
11.1.3 Corporate debt securities 
As at 31 March 2021 corporate debt securities comprise 7% (2020-8%) of 
the total investments in debt securities, out of which 53% (2020 – 53%) 
were rated “A” or better, or guaranteed by a banking institution with a 
rating of “A” or better.
11.1.5 Loans to executives 
Loans to executive portfolio is largely made up of vehicle loans which 
are given to staff at assistant manager level and above. The respective 
business units have obtained the necessary promissory notes as 
collateral for the loans granted.	
11.1.6 Loans to life policyholders 
The surrender value of insurance policies considered as the collateral for the 
loans given to life policy holders by Union Assuarance PLC. System controls 
are in place to automatically convert a policy to lapse stage when the policy 
loan amount together with the interest is reaching the surrender value of 
the policy.
11.1.7  Preference Shares 
Cumulative preference share investment which has lien over an asset, 
redeemable at the option of shareholder.
11.1.8 Interest rate swap
The Group has entered into interest rate swap that is a cash flow hedge.
The changes in counterparty credit risk had no material effect on the 
hedge effectiveness assessment for derivatives designated in hedge 
relationships. Refer note 13.3

219
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
11.1.9 Trade and other receivables 	
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
In LKR ‘000s
2021
2020
2021
2020
Neither past due nor impaired
 9,882,277 
4,555,606
 20,618 
 48,574
Past due but not impaired
	 0-30 days
 4,343,193 
3,165,628
 19,454 
 40,889 
	 31–60 days
 923,115 
1,938,832
 9,121 
 4,684 
	 61–90 days
 681,878 
651,984
 33,376 
 864 
	 > 91 days
 362,362 
 747,916 
 12,805 
 10,719 
Allowance for expected credit losses
 1,314,335 
1,135,977
 14,555 
 10,198 
Gross carrying value
 17,507,160 
12,195,943
 109,929 
 115,928 
Allowance for expected credit losses
 (1,314,335)
 (1,135,977)
 (14,555)
 (10,198)
Total
 16,192,825 
11,059,966
 95,374 
 105,730 
The Group has obtained customer deposit from major customers by 
reviewing their past performance and credit worthiness, as collateral. 
The requirement for an impairment is analysed at each reporting date on 
an individual basis for major customers. Additionally, a large number of 
minor receivables are grouped into homogenous groups and assessed 
for impairment collectively. The calculation is based on actual incurred 
historical data.
The Group’s exposure to credit risk is influenced by the individual 
characteristics of each customer. The individual receivable balances 
were re-assessed, specific provisions were made wherever necessary, 
existing practice on the provisioning of trade receivables were re-visited 
and adjusted to reflect the rearrangement of homogeneous groups 
which the COVID-19 outbreak has affected different types of customers. 
Receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis to minimize 
bad debt risk and to ensure default rates are kept very low whilst the 
improved operating environment itself during the financial year has 
resulted in improved collections. 
11.1.10 Reinsurance receivables 
The Union Assurance PLC operates a policy to manage its reinsurance 
counterparty exposures by limiting the reinsurers that may be used and 
applying strict limits each reinsurer. 
11.1.11 Premium receivable 
Only designated institutions are employed as intermediary parties 
by Union Assurance PLC. Agreements have been signed within the 
intermediaries committing them to settle dues within a specified time 
period.
11.1.12 Amounts due from related parties 
The Group's amounts due from related parties mainly consists of 
associates and other venture partners' balances. The Company balance 
consists of the balances from affiliate companies.
11.1.13 Credit risk relating to cash in hand and Bank Balance 
In order to mitigate the concentration, settlement and operational risks 
related to cash and cash equivalents, the Group consciously manages 
the exposure to a single counterparty taking into consideration, where 
relevant, the rating or financial standing of the counterparty, where the 
position is reviewed as and when required, the duration of the exposure 
in managing such exposures and the nature of the transaction and 
agreement governing the exposure. 
11.2 	  Liquidity risk 
The Group’s policy is to hold cash and undrawn committed facilities at 
a level sufficient to ensure that the Group has available funds to meet 
its short and medium term capital and funding obligations, including 
organic growth and acquisition activities, and to meet any unforeseen 
obligations and opportunities. The Group holds cash and undrawn 
committed facilities to enable the Group to manage its liquidity risk.
The Group monitors its risk to a shortage of funds using a daily cash 
management process. This process considers the maturity of both 
the Group’s financial investments and financial assets (e.g. accounts 
receivable, other financial assets) and projected cash flows from 
operations.
The Group’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of 
funding and flexibility through the use of multiple sources of funding 
including debentures, bank loans, loan notes, overdrafts and finance 
leases over a broad spread of maturities.

220   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
11. 	
 Financial risk management objectives and policies (Contd.)
11.2.1 Net debt/(cash) 
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2021
2020
2021
2020
In LKR '000s
Short term investments
 69,262,761 
 38,457,970 
 51,591,037 
 27,372,003 
Cash in hand and at bank
 19,432,579 
 13,333,743 
 305,373 
 176,662 
Adjustments to liquid assets
(6,937,193)
 (6,251,879)
 - 
 - 
Total liquid assets
81,758,147
 45,539,834 
 51,896,410 
 27,548,665 
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings (Non-current)
 118,965,640 
 50,925,346 
 44,179,490 
 289,705 
Lease liabilities
 24,234,968 
 19,910,124 
 - 
-
Short term borrowings
 6,903,737 
 5,803,771 
 - 
 - 
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings (Current)
 9,507,473 
 5,206,020 
3,007,368
 316,042 
Lease liabilities (Current)
 1,472,297 
 1,382,662 
 - 
-
Bank overdrafts
 11,820,179 
 17,679,471 
9,783
 1,417,148 
Total liabilities
 172,904,294 
 100,907,394 
47,196,641
 2,022,895 
Net debt / (cash)
91,146,147
 55,367,560 
(4,699,769)
 (25,525,770)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
11.2.2 	
 Liquidity risk management 
The mixed approach combines elements of the cash flow matching 
approach and the liquid assets approach. 
Group has implemented a mixed approach that combines elements of 
the cash flow matching approach and the liquid assets approach. The 
business units matched cash outflows in each time bucket against the 
combination of contractual cash inflows plus other inflows that can be 
generated through the sale of assets, repurchase agreement, or other 
secured borrowings.
The Group continued to place emphasis on ensuring that cash and 
undrawn committed facilities are sufficient to meet the short, medium 
and long-term funding requirements, unforeseen obligations as well 
as unanticipated opportunities. Constant dialogue between Group 
companies and banks regarding financing requirements, ensures that 
availability within each single borrower limit is optimised by efficiently 
reallocating under-utilised facilities within the Group. 
The Government of Sri Lanka offered certain relief measures including a 
moratorium on repayment of loans and concessionary working capital 
facilities for eligible industries. Group companies qualified for such relief 
measures and it helped ease the financial position further during the 
financial year. 
The daily cash management processes at the business units include 
active cash flow forecasts and matching the duration and profiles of 
assets and liabilities, thereby ensuring a prudent balance between 
liquidity and earnings.
Maturity analysis - Group
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial 
liabilities at 31 March 2021 based on contractual undiscounted (principal 
plus interest) payments.
GROUP
In LKR ‘000s
Within 1 
year
Between
1-2 years
Between
2-3 years
Between
3-4 years
Between
4-5 years
More than 
5 years
Total
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
 10,661,673 
 63,599,843 
 7,744,177 
 11,541,441 
 13,209,355 
 34,991,322 
141,747,811
Lease liabilities
 1,611,278 
 2,560,451 
 1,440,887 
 2,410,028 
 1,573,467 
 16,642,933 
 26,239,044 
Interest rate swap
 332,858 
 80,608 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 413,466 
Trade and other payables
 35,287,700 
-
-
-
-
-
 35,287,700 
Amounts due to related parties
 1,385 
-
-
-
-
-
 1,385 
Short term borrowings
 6,903,737 
-
-
-
-
-
 6,903,737 
Other current financial liabilities
2,991,093
-
-
-
-
-
2,991,093
Bank overdrafts
 11,820,179 
-
-
-
-
-
 11,820,179 
         69,609,903 
66,240,902
 9,185,064 
 13,951,469 
 14,782,822 
 51,634,255 
225,404,415

221
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
11.3 	  Market risk 	
Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial 
instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market prices.
Market risk comprises of the following types of risk:
* Interest rate risk
* Currency risk
* Equity price risk
* Commodity price risk
The objective of market risk management is to manage and 
control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while 
optimising the return.
The sensitivity analyses in the following sections relate to the 
position as at 31 March in 2021 and 2020.
The analysis excludes the impact of movements in market variables 
on the carrying values of other post-retirement obligations, 
provisions, and the non-financial assets and liabilities.
The following assumptions have been made in calculating the 
sensitivity analyses:
* The sensitivity of the Statement of Financial Position item mainly 
relates to derivatives and debt instruments.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities at 31 March 2020 based on contractual undiscounted (principal plus 
interest) payments.
In LKR ‘000s
Within 1 
year
Between
1-2 years
Between
2-3 years
Between
3-4 years
Between
4-5 years
More than 
5 years
Total
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
 9,720,905 
 12,181,923 
 44,183,327 
 1,600,058 
 376,823 
 338,234 
 68,401,270 
Lease liabilities
 2,565,337 
 2,578,140 
 2,602,566 
 2,165,463 
 3,232,001 
 17,102,235 
 30,245,742 
Interest rate swap
204,881
273,958
65,808
-
-
-
 544,647 
Trade and other payables
 23,881,479 
-
-
-
-
-
 23,881,479 
Amounts due to related parties
 2,073 
-
-
-
-
-
 2,073 
Short term borrowings
 5,803,771 
-
-
-
-
-
 5,803,771 
Bank overdrafts
 17,679,471 
-
-
-
-
-
 17,679,471 
 59,857,917 
 15,034,021 
 46,851,701 
 3,765,521 
 3,608,824 
 17,440,469 
 146,558,453 
Maturity analysis - Company
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Company’s financial liabilities at 31 March 2021 based on contractual undiscounted (principal 
plus interest) payments.
In LKR ‘000s
Within 1 
year
Between
1-2 years
  Between 
2-3 years  
  Between 
3-4 years  
  Between
4-5 years 
  More than
5 Years 
Total
 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 
 4,071,811 
 3,796,671 
 4,223,052 
 6,577,937 
 10,264,328 
 31,489,326 
60,423,125
 Trade and other payables 
 372,711 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 372,711 
 Amounts due to related parties 
 13,181 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 13,181 
 Bank overdrafts 
 9,781 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 9,781 
 4,467,484 
 3,796,671 
 4,223,052 
 6,577,937 
 10,264,328 
 31,489,326 
60,818,798
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Company's financial liabilities at 31 March 2020 based on contractual undiscounted (principal 
plus interest) payments. 
In LKR ‘000s
Within 1 
year
Between
1-2 years
Total
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
 329,785 
 294,027 
 623,812 
Trade and other payables
 423,393 
 - 
 423,393 
Amounts due to related parties
 777 
 - 
 777 
Bank overdrafts
 1,417,148 
 - 
 1,417,148 
 2,171,103 
 294,027 
 2,465,130 

222   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The assumed spread of basis points for the interest rate sensitivity 
analysis is based on the currently observable market environment 
changes to base floating interest rates.
11.3.2 	
 Foreign currency risk 
Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows 
of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in foreign 
exchange rates. The Group has exposure to foreign currency risk where it 
has cash flows in overseas operations and foreign currency transactions 
which are affected by foreign exchange movements. Group treasury 
analyses the market condition of foreign exchange and provides market 
updates to the Group Executive Committee (GEC), with the use of 
external consultants' advice. Based on the suggestions made by Group 
treasury the GEC takes decisions on whether to hold, sell, or make 
forward bookings of foreign currency as per decision rights given by 
Board of Directors.
11.3.2.1 	  Effects of currency transaction on forward contract 
The table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change 
in the USD/LKR exchange rate, with all other variables held constant, 
of the Group’s profit before tax due to changes in the fair value of 
the Group’s forward exchange contracts. Currently these financial 
instruments are categerised under trade and other receivables.	
GROUP
For the year ended 31 March
Increase/(decrease) in 
exchange rate USD
Effect on profit before tax 
LKR ‘000s
2021
+ 7%
-
- 7%
-
2020
+3%
 (1,422)
-3%
 1,422 
The assumed spread of the exchange rate is based on the current observable market environment.
GROUP
COMPANY
Increase/ (decrease) in basis points
Effect on profit before tax 
LKR ‘000s
For the year ended 31 March
Rupee 
borrowings
Other currency
borrowings
2021
+411
+71
 (1,730,706)
 (736,264)
-411
-71
 1,730,706 
 736,264 
2020
+308
+176
 (1,052,247)
 (1,066)
-308
-176
 1,052,247
 1,066 
11. 	
 Financial risk management objectives and policies (Contd.)
* The sensitivity of the relevant Income Statement item is the effect 
of the assumed changes in respective market risks. 
* This is based on the financial assets and financial liabilities held at 
31 March 2020 and 2021.
11.3.1 Interest rate risk 
Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows 
of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in 
market interest rates. The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes in 
market interest rates relate primarily to the Group’s long-term debt 
obligations with floating interest rates. 
Most lenders grant loans under floating interest rates. To manage 
this, the Group enters into interest rate swaps, in which it agrees to 
exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed and 
variable rate interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed-
upon notional principal amount.
The global outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in 
reductions in policy rates and monetary easing policies by Central 
Bank of Sri Lanka which has resulted in a sharp reduction in lending 
rates. The Group has managed the risk of increased interest rates by 
having a balanced portfolio of borrowings at fixed and variable rates 
while interest rate swap agreements are in place for a significant 
portion of the Group’s foreign currency borrowing portfolio.
The table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible 
change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, of the 
Group’s and Company's profit before tax (through the impact on 
floating rate borrowings). 

223
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
GROUP
As at 31 March
2021
2020
LKR ’000s
% 
LKR ’000s
% 
Banks
 1,400,564 
40%
 1,719,613 
60%
Capital goods
 675,286 
20%
 219,900 
8%
Consumer durables & apparel
 347,799 
10%
 137,723 
5%
Consumer services
 23,841 
1%
 22,803 
1%
Diversified financials
 - 
-
 74,336 
2%
Food & staples retailing
 269,082 
8%
 128,783 
4%
Food beverage & tobacco
 565,561 
16%
 285,721 
10%
Materials
 - 
-
 247,892 
9%
Telecommunication services
 189,133 
5%
 33,174 
1%
 3,471,266 
100%
2,869,945
100%
 11.3.3.2 Financial instruments at fair value through other 
comprehensive income statement 
All unquoted equity investments are made after obtaining Board of 
Directors approval. 
 11.3.3.3 	 Sensitivity analysis 
The table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change 
in the market index, with all other variables held constant, of the Group 
and Company's profit before tax and equity due to changes in the fair 
value of the listed equity securities.
Assumptions
The assumed spread of the exchange rate is based on the current 
observable market environment.
The Sri Lankan Rupee witnessed significant volatility during 2020/21 on 
the back of the COVID-19 pandemic and macro-economic pressures. The 
Group adopted prudent measures, as and when required, to manage 
the financial impacts arising from currency fluctuations by matching 
liabilities with corresponding inflows and entering into forward 
exchange rate agreements, where applicable. At a Group level, the 
translation risk on foreign currency debt is largely hedged “naturally” as a 
result of the conscious strategy of maintaining US Dollar cash balances 
while also ensuring obligations can be managed through US Dollar 
denominated revenue streams.
11.3.3 Equity price risk 
The Group’s listed and unlisted equity securities are susceptible to 
market price risk arising from uncertainties about future values of the 
investment securities. 
11.3.3.1 	  Financial assets at fair value through Profit and loss 
The Group manages the equity price risk through diversification and by 
placing limits on individual and total equity instruments. Reports on the 
equity portfolio are submitted to the Group’s senior management on 
a regular basis. The Board of Directors reviews and approves all equity 
investment decisions. 
The Colombo Stock Exchange re-commenced trading in May 2020 
and by 31 March 2021 investor sentiment had improved significantly, 
providing an active market for price discovery. Therefore, all the listed 
equity instruments were measured based on the prices available as of 31 
March 2021.
11.3.2.2 	  Effects of currency translation 
For purposes of the Group consolidated financial statements, the income and expenses and the assets and liabilities of subsidiaries located outside 
Sri Lanka are converted into Sri Lankan Rupees (LKR). Therefore, period-to-period changes in average exchange rates may cause currency translation 
effects that have a significant impact on, for example, revenue, segment results (Earnings Before Interest and Taxes –EBIT) and assets and liabilities 
of the Group. Unlike exchange rate transaction risk, exchange rate translation risk does not necessarily affect future cash flows. The Group’s equity 
position reflects changes in book values caused by exchange rates.
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
Increase/(decrease)
in exchange rate USD
Effect on profit 
before tax 
LKR ‘000s
Effect on equity 
LKR ‘000s
Effect on profit 
before tax 
LKR ‘000s
2021
+ 7%
 2,186,890 
7,286,362
 763,078 
- 7%
 (2,186,890)
(7,286,362)
 (763,078)
2020
+3%
1,367,126
 2,663,311 
 609,329 
-3%
(1,367,126)
 (2,663,311)
 (609,329)

224   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
12. 	
Fair value measurement and related fair value disclosures 
Fair value measurement 
Fair value related disclosures for financial instruments and non-financial 
assets that are measured at fair value or where fair values are only, disclosed 
are reflected in this note. Aside from this note, additional fair value related 
disclosures, including the valuation methods, significant estimates and 
assumptions are also provided in:
•	 Investment in unquoted equity shares - Note 28.1
•	 Property, plant and equipment under revaluation model -  
Note 22.3
•	 Investment properties - Note 24
•	 Financial Instruments (including those carried at amortised cost) - 
Note 13
Accounting policy
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to 
transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants 
at the measurement date. The fair value measurement is based on the 
presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability 
takes place either:
• 	 In the principal market for the asset or liability, or 
• 	 In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous 
market for the asset or liability 
The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible by 
the Group. 
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions 
that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, 
assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest.
A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account 
a market participant’s ability to generate economic benefits by using 
the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market 
participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the 
circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair 
value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising 
the use of unobservable inputs.
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in 
the financial statements are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, 
described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to 
the fair value measurement as a whole:
•	 Level 1 — Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active markets for 
identical assets or liabilities 
•	 Level 2 — Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that 
is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly 
observable.
•	 Level 3 — Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is 
significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable.
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements 
on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have 
occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation 
(based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value 
measurement as a whole) at the end of each reporting period.
The Group determines the policies and procedures for both recurring fair 
value measurement, such as investment properties and unquoted equity 
instruments, and for non-recurring measurement, such as assets held for 
sale in discontinued operations.
11. 	
 Financial risk management objectives and policies (Contd.)
11.3.3.3 	  Sensitivity analysis (Contd.)
GROUP
For the year ended 31 March
Change in year-end
 market price index
Effect on profit
before tax LKR ‘000s
Effect on equity
LKR ‘000s
2021
+42%
 1,457,932 
 - 
-42%
 (1,457,932)
 - 
2020
+13%
373,093
-
-13%
(373,093)
-
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2021
2020
2021
2020
Debt / Equity
71.2%
41.4%
35.0%
1.6%
11.4 	  Capital management 
The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to ensure 
that it maintains a strong financial position and healthy capital ratios in 
order to support its business and maximise shareholder value. 
The Group manages its capital structure, and makes adjustments to it, in 
the light of changes in economic conditions. To maintain or adjust the 
capital structure, the Group may issue new shares, have a rights issue or 
buy back of shares. 	

225
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
12.1 	 Fair value measurement hierarchy - Group
The Group held the following financial instruments carried at fair value in the Statement of Financial Position:
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
As at 31 March
In LKR ‘000s
2021
2020
2021
2020
2021
2020
2021
2020
FINANCIAL ASSETS
Non-listed equity 
investments
 - 
-
 280 
 280 
 147,346 
 144,088 
 147,626 
 144,368 
Listed equity investments
 4,050,765 
 104,839 
 86 
 2,870,071
 - 
-
 4,050,851 
 2,974,910 
Quoted debt instruments
 7,751,585 
 8,184,761 
 289,214 
 176,639 
 - 
-
 8,040,799 
 8,361,400 
Unquoted debt instruments
 - 
-
 21,119 
 10,549 
 - 
 - 
 21,119 
 10,549 
Interest rate swap
 - 
-
 729,316 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 729,316 
 - 
Total
 11,802,350 
 8,289,600 
 1,040,015 
3,057,539
 147,346 
 144,088 
 12,989,711 
 11,491,227 
NON FINANCIAL ASSETS
Assets measured at fair 
value
Note
Land and buildings
 22.1 
-
-
-
-
 60,549,380 
 60,349,598 
 60,549,380 
 60,349,598 
Buildings on leasehold land  22.1 
-
-
-
-
 30,092,912 
 26,834,918 
 30,092,912 
 26,834,918 
Investment property
 24
-
-
-
-
 14,754,571 
 15,007,996 
 14,754,571 
 15,007,996 
Total
-
-
-
-  105,396,863  102,192,512  105,396,863  102,192,512 
The services of external valuers are obtained for valuation of significant 
assets, such as land and building and investment properties. Selection 
criteria for external valuers include market knowledge, reputation, 
independence and whether professional standards are maintained. 
The Group decides, after discussions with the external valuers, which 
valuation techniques and inputs to use for individual assets.
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group has determined 
classes of assets on the basis of the nature, characteristics and risks of the 
asset and the level of the fair value hierarchy as explained above.
In determining the fair value, highest and best use of the property has 
been considered including the current condition of the properties, 
future usability and associated redevelopment requirements. Also, the 
valuers have made reference to market evidence of transaction prices for 
similar properties, with appropriate adjustments for size and location. The 
appraised fair values are rounded within the range of values.
All the other financial instruments were properly categorized and during 
the period were not materially different from the transaction prices at the 
date of initial recognition. The fair value changes on financial instruments 
in Level 3 category was properly recorded in the statement of other 
comprehensive income Fair valuation was done as of 31 March 2021.
Financial assets at fair value through Profit and loss 
There may be an increase in the amount of subjectivity involved in fair 
value measurements, and as such, a greater use of unobservable inputs will 
be required because relevant observable inputs are no longer available. 
This will have a direct impact to the policyholder profit or loss where 
diversification of the portfolio with the unaffected and growing industries 
will mitigate the risk.
The Colombo Stock Exchange re-commenced trading in May 2020 and by 
31 March 2021, investor sentiment has improved significantly, providing 
an active market for price discovery. Therefore, the fair value of the equity 
portfolio as of 31 March 2021 was determined based on the closing prices 
available as of 31 March 2021.
12.2 	 Fair value measurement hierarchy - Company
FINANCIAL ASSETS
Level 2
Level 3
As at 31 March
In LKR ‘000s
2021
2020
2021
2020
Non-listed equity investments
-
-
 92,346
 89,049
Interest rate swap
 729,316 
-
-
-
 729,316
-
 92,346
 89,049

226   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
13.	
Financial instruments and related policies 
Accounting policy
Financial instruments — Initial recognition and subsequent 
measurement
Initial recognition and measurement
Financial assets within the scope of SLFRS 9 are classified as amortised 
cost, fair value through other comprehensive income (OCI), and fair 
value through profit or loss.
The classification of financial assets at initial recognition depends on the 
financial asset’s contractual cash flow characteristics and the Group’s 
business model for managing them. This assessment is referred to as the 
SPPI test and is performed at an instrument level. The business model 
determines whether cash flows will result from collecting contractual 
cash flows, selling the financial assets, or both. With the exception of 
trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing component 
or for which the Group has applied the practical expedient are measured 
at the transaction price.
At initial recognition, the Group measures a financial asset at its fair value 
plus, in the case of a financial asset not at fair value through profit or loss 
(FVPL), transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition 
of the financial asset. Transaction costs of financial assets carried at FVPL 
are expensed in profit or loss.
The Group’s financial assets include cash and short-term deposits, 
trade and other receivables, loans and other receivables, quoted and 
unquoted financial instruments and derivative financial instruments.
Subsequent measurement
For purposes of subsequent measurement, financial assets are classified 
in four categories
• 	 Financial assets at amortised cost
•	 Financial assets at fair value through OCI with recycling of cumulative 
gains and losses
•	 Financial assets designated at fair value through OCI with no recycling 
of cumulative gains and losses upon derecognition
• 	 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
Debt instruments
Financial assets at amortised cost
Assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows where 
those cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest 
are measured at amortised cost. The Group measures financial assets at 
amortised cost if both of the following conditions are met:
• 	 The financial asset is held within a business model with the objective 
to hold financial assets in order to collect contractual cash flows and
• 	 The contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates 
to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the 
principal amount outstanding. 
Financial assets at amortised cost are subsequently measured using the 
effective interest (EIR) method and are subject to impairment. Gains and 
losses are recognised in profit or loss when the asset is derecognised, 
modified or impaired.
The Group’s financial assets at amortised cost includes trade receivables 
and short term investments.	
Financial assets at fair value through OCI
Assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows and for 
selling the financial assets, where the assets’ cash flows represent solely 
payments of principal and interest, are measured at FVOCI. The Group 
measures debt instruments at fair value through OCI if both of the 
following conditions are met:
• 	 The financial asset is held within a business model with the objective 
of both holding to collect contractual cash flows and selling and;
• 	 The contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates 
to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the 
principal amount outstanding.
Movements in the carrying amount are taken through OCI, except for 
the recognition of impairment gains or losses, interest income and 
foreign exchange gains and losses which are recognised in profit or 
loss. When the financial asset is derecognised, the cumulative gain or 
loss previously recognised in OCI is reclassified from equity to profit or 
loss and recognised in other gains/(losses). Interest income from these 
financial assets is included in finance income using the effective interest 
12. 	
Fair value measurement and related fair value disclosures (Contd.)
12.3 	 Reconciliation of fair value measurements of level 3 financial instruments
The Group and Company carries unquoted equity shares are classified as Level 3 within the fair value hierarchy. A reconciliation of the beginning and 
closing balances including movements is summarised below:
GROUP
COMPANY
In LKR ‘000s
Fair Value through other 
comprehensive income
As at 1 April 2020
144,088
 89,049 
Remeasurement recognised in OCI
3,258
3,297 
As at 31 March 2021
147,346
92,346
Fair valuation done as at 31 March 2021 for all unquoted equity shares are classified as Level 3 within the fair value hierarchy using fair valuation 
methodology. Fair value would not significantly vary if one or more of the inputs were changed.

227
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
rate method. Foreign exchange gains and losses are presented in other 
gains/(losses) and impairment expenses are presented as separate line 
item in the income statement. 
Equity Instruments
Financial assets designated at fair value through OCI
Upon initial recognition, the Group can elect to classify irrevocably its 
equity investments as financial assets at fair value through OCI when 
they meet the definition of equity under LKAS 32 Financial Instruments: 
Presentation and are not held for trading. The classification is determined 
on an instrument-by-instrument basis.
Gains and losses on these financial assets are never recycled to profit 
or loss. Dividends are recognised as other income in the statement of 
profit or loss when the right of payment has been established, except 
when the Group benefits from such proceeds as a recovery of part of the 
cost of the financial asset, in which case, such gains are recorded in OCI. 
Equity instruments designated at fair value through OCI are not subject 
to impairment assessment.
The Group elected to classify irrevocably its non-listed equity 
investments under this category.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include financial assets 
held for trading, financial assets designated upon initial recognition at 
fair value through profit or loss, or financial assets mandatorily required 
to be measured at fair value. Financial assets are classified as held for 
trading if they are acquired for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in 
the near term. Derivatives, including separated embedded derivatives, 
are also classified as held for trading unless they are designated as 
effective hedging instruments. Financial assets with cash flows that are 
not solely payments of principal and interest are classified and measured 
at fair value through profit or loss, irrespective of the business model. 
Notwithstanding the criteria for debt instruments to be classified at 
amortised cost or at fair value through OCI, as described above, debt 
instruments may be designated at fair value through profit or loss on 
initial recognition if doing so eliminates, or significantly reduces, an 
accounting mismatch.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are carried in the 
statement of financial position at fair value with net changes in fair value 
recognised in the statement of profit or loss.
This category includes derivative instruments and listed equity 
investments which the Group had not irrevocably elected to classify at 
fair value through OCI. Dividends on listed equity investments are also 
recognised as finance income in the statement of profit or loss when the 
right of payment has been established.
Dividends received from equity instruments have been disclosed in note 
no 17 (finance income expense note).	
Financial assets - derecognition
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash 
flows from the financial assets have expired or have been transferred 
and the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of 
ownership.
Impairment of financial assets
From 31 March 2021, the Group assesses on a forward looking basis 
the expected credit losses associated with its debt instruments carried 
at amortised cost and FVOCI. The impairment methodology applied 
depends on whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk.
For trade receivables, the Group applies the simplified approach 
permitted by SLFRS 9, which requires expected lifetime losses to be 
recognised from initial recognition of the receivables. The Group has 
established a provision matrix that is based on its historical credit loss 
experience, adjusted for forward-looking factors specific to the debtors 
and the economic environment.
Financial Liabilities
Initial recognition and measurement
Financial liabilities are classified, at initial recognition, as financial 
liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, loans and borrowings, 
payables, or as derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an 
effective hedge, as appropriate.
All financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value and, in the 
case of loans and borrowings and payables, net of directly attributable 
transaction costs.	
The Group’s financial liabilities include trade and other payables, loans 
and borrowings including bank overdrafts, and derivative financial 
instruments.
Subsequent measurement
The measurement of financial liabilities depends on their classification, 
as described below:
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss include financial 
liabilities held for trading and financial liabilities designated upon initial 
recognition as at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial liabilities are classified as held for trading if they are incurred for 
the purpose of repurchasing in the near term. This category also includes 
derivative financial instruments entered into by the Group that are not 
designated as hedging instruments in hedge relationships as defined by 
SLFRS 9. Separated embedded derivatives are also classified as held for 
trading unless they are designated as effective hedging instruments.
Gains or losses on liabilities held for trading are recognised in the Income 
statement.
Loans and borrowings
This is the category most relevant to the Group. After initial recognition, 
interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at 
amortised cost using the EIR method. Gains and losses are recognised in 
profit or loss when the liabilities are derecognised as well as through the 
EIR amortisation process.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or 
premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part of the 
EIR. The EIR amortisation is included as finance costs in the statement of 
profit or loss.

228   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
13. 	
Financial instruments and related policies (Contd.)
13.1 	 Financial assets and liabilities by categories in accordance with SLFRS 9 - Group
Financial assets at  
amortised cost
Financial assets at fair value 
through OCI
As at 31 March
In LKR ‘000s
2021
2020
2021
2020
Financial instruments in non-current assets / non-current liabilities
Non-current financial assets/liabilities
54,880,163
 32,833,447 
 7,577,462 
 7,105,176 
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
 - 
-
-
-
Leases liabilities
-
-
-
-
Financial instruments in current assets / current liabilities
Trade and other receivables / payables
 17,456,698 
 12,186,327 
-
-
Amounts due from / due to related parties
 123,553 
 389,766 
-
-
Short term investments / Short term borrowings
 61,232,588 
 34,211,765 
 321,874 
 1,063,001 
Cash in hand and at bank
 19,432,579 
 13,333,743 
-
-
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
-
-
-
-
Leases liabilities
-
-
-
-
Other current financial liabilities
-
-
-
-
Bank overdrafts 
-
-
-
-
Total
153,125,581
 92,955,048 
 7,899,336 
 8,168,177 
Derecognition
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the 
liability is discharged or cancelled or expires. When an existing 
financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on 
substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are 
substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as 
the derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new 
liability. The difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised 
in the Income statement.
Offsetting of financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is 
reported in the consolidated statement of financial position if there is a 
currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts and 
there is an intention to settle on a net basis, to realise the assets and 
settle the liabilities simultaneously.
13.2 	 Financial assets and liabilities by categories in accordance with SLFRS 9 - Company
Financial assets at  
amortised cost
Financial assets at fair value 
through OCI 
As at 31 March
In LKR ‘000s
2021
2020
2021
2020
 Financial instruments in non-current assets/non-current liabilities 
 Non-current financial assets 
 17,518,775 
 195,929 
 92,346
 89,049
 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 
 - 
 - 
-
-
 Financial instruments in current assets/current liabilities 
 Trade and other receivables / payables 
 114,780 
 125,451 
-
-
 Amounts due from / due to related parties 
 1,465,816 
 681,617 
-
-
 Short term investments / Short term borrowings 
51,591,037
 27,372,003 
-
-
 Cash in hand and at bank 
 305,373 
 176,662 
-
-
 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 
-
-
-
-
 Bank overdrafts 
-
-
-
-
 Total 
 70,995,781
 28,551,662
 92,346
 89,049

229
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
Financial assets at fair value 
through profit or loss 
Derivative financial 
instruments
Total
Financial liabilities measured 
at amortised cost/fair value
2021
2020
2021
2020
2021
2020
2021
2020
 132,178 
 139,846 
-
-
62,589,803
 40,078,469 
 3,660,952 
3,619,863
-
-
-
-
 - 
-
 118,965,640 
50,925,346
-
-
-
-
-
-
 24,234,968 
19,910,124
-
-
-
-
17,456,698
 12,186,327 
 35,287,700 
 23,881,479 
-
-
-
-
 123,553 
 389,766 
 1,385 
 2,073 
 7,708,299 
 3,183,204 
-
-
 69,262,761 
 38,457,970 
 6,903,737
 5,803,771 
-
-
-
-
 19,432,579 
 13,333,743 
-
-
-
-
-
-
 - 
-
 9,507,473 
 5,206,020 
-
-
-
-
-
 1,472,297 
 1,382,662 
-
-
-
-
-
-
2,991,093
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
 11,820,179 
 17,679,471 
 7,840,477 
 3,323,050 
-
 - 
168,865,394
 104,446,275 
221,749,164 
 128,410,809 
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting - Initial 
recognition and subsequent measurement
The Group uses derivative financial instruments, such as forward 
currency contracts, interest rate swaps and forward commodity 
contracts, to hedge its foreign currency risks, interest rate risks and 
commodity price risks, respectively. Such derivative financial instruments 
are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative 
contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value. 
Derivatives are carried as financial assets when the fair value is positive 
and as financial liabilities when the fair value is negative.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as:
•	 Fair value hedges when hedging the exposure to changes in the 
fair value of a recognised asset or liability or an unrecognised firm 
commitment
•	 Cash flow hedges when hedging the exposure to variability in cash 
flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a 
recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction or 
the foreign currency risk in an unrecognised firm commitment
•	 Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation.
Total
Financial liabilities measured 
at amortised
2021
2020
2021
2020
 17,611,121
284,978
-
-
-
-
 44,179,490
289,705
 114,780 
125,451
 372,711 
423,393
 1,465,816 
681,617
 13,181 
777
51,591,037
27,372,003
 - 
-
 305,373 
176,662
-
-
 - 
-
 3,007,368 
316,042
 - 
-
9,783
1,417,148
 71,088,127
28,640,711
 47,582,533
2,447,065

230   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
13.3 	 Derivative financial instruments
GROUP
COMPANY
Contract notional 
amount In USD ‘000s
Fair value
In LKR ‘000s
Contract notional 
amount In USD ‘000s
Fair value
In LKR ‘000s
As at 31 March 
Cash-flow hedges
2021
2020
2021
2020
2021
2020
2021
2020
Interest rate swap - Derivative Liability
 129,500 
 129,500 
 (413,466)
 (544,645)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Interest rate swap - Derivative Asset
 100,000 
 - 
 729,316 
 - 
 100,000 
 - 
 729,316 
 - 
The management assessed that, cash and short-term deposits, trade 
receivables, trade payables, bank overdrafts and other current financial 
liabilities approximate their carrying amounts largely due to the short-
term maturities of these instruments.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to 
transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants 
at the measurement date.
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate 
the fair values:
Fair value of quoted equities, debentures and bonds is based on price 
quotations in an active market at the reporting date
Accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions
Fair value of financial instruments
Where the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded 
in the statement of financial position cannot be derived from active 
markets, their fair value is determined using valuation techniques 
including the discounted cash flow model. The inputs to these models 
are taken from observable markets where possible.
The fair value of unquoted instruments, loans from banks and other 
financial liabilities, obligations under finance leases, as well as non-
current financial liabilities are estimated by discounting future cash flows 
using rates currently available for debt on similar terms, credit risk and 
remaining maturities.
Fair value of the unquoted ordinary shares has been estimated using a 
Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) model. The valuation requires management 
to make certain assumptions about the model inputs, including forecast 
cash flows, the discount rate, credit risk and volatility. The probabilities 
of the various estimates within the range can be reasonably assessed 
and are used in management’s estimate of fair value for these unquoted 
equity investments.
13.	
Financial instruments and related policies (Contd.)
13.2 	 Financial assets and liabilities by categories in accordance with SLFRS 9 - Company
Where this is not feasible, a degree of judgement is required in 
establishing fair values. The judgements include considerations of inputs 
such as liquidity risk, credit risk and volatility. 

231
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
In LKR ‘000s
Note
2021
2020
2021
2020
Timing of revenue recognition
Goods transferred at a point in time
 105,427,158 
106,372,880 
-
 - 
Services transferred over time
 9,027,325 
 21,461,944 
 1,637,063 
 1,462,190 
Total revenue from contracts with customers
14.1.1
 114,454,483 
 127,834,824 
 1,637,063 
 1,462,190 
Revenue from insurance contracts 
14.1.2
 13,221,167 
 11,120,928 
 - 
 - 
Total revenue
 127,675,650 
138,955,752 
 1,637,063 
 1,462,190 
Contract balances
Performance obligations 
satisfied
As at / for the year ended 31 March
In LKR ‘000s
Note
2021
2020
2021
2020
Contract assets
-
 - 
194
 891 
Contract liabilities
	 Other non current liabilities
40
19,386,170
 9,407,028 
 20,600 
 19,327 
	 Trade and other payables
41
 112,665 
 72,868 
 219,701 
 579,775 
	 Other current liabilities
43
758,085
 877,378 
 783 
 1,819 
20,256,920
 10,357,274 
 241,278 
 601,812 
Notes to the Income Statement, Statement of Comprehensive 
Income and Statement of Financial Position
14. 	
Revenue
Accounting policy
14.1 	 Total revenue
14.1.1 Revenue from contract with customers
Revenue from contracts with customers is recognised when control of 
the goods or services is transferred to the customer at an amount that 
reflects the consideration to which the Group expects to be entitled in 
exchange for those goods or services.
Goods transferred at a point in time
Under SLFRS 15, revenue is recognised upon satisfaction of a 
performance obligation. The revenue recognition occurs at a point in 
time when control of the asset is transferred to the customer, generally, 
on delivery of the goods. 
Services transferred over time
Under SLFRS 15, the Group determines, at contract inception, whether it 
satisfies the performance obligation over time or at a point in time. For 
each performance obligation satisfied over time, the Group recognises 
the revenue over time by measuring the progress towards complete 
satisfaction of that performance obligation. 
14.1.2 Revenue from insurance contracts
Revenue from insurance contracts comprise of gross written premiums 
net of premium ceded to reinsurers.
14.2 	 Disaggregation of revenue 
The Group presented disaggregated revenue with Group’s reportable 
segments based on timing of revenue recognition and geographical 
region in the operating segment information section.
14.3 	 Reconciliation of revenue 
Reconciliation between Revenue from contracts with customers 
and revenue for each reportable segment has been provided in the 
operating segment information section.
14.4 	 Contract balances
Contract assets
Contract assets are the Group’s right to consideration in exchange for 
goods or services that the Group has transferred to a customer, with 
rights that are conditional on some criteria other than the passage of 
time. Upon satisfaction of the conditions, the amounts recognised as 
contract assets are reclassified to trade receivables.
Contract liabilities
Contract liabilities are the Group's obligation to transfer goods or 
services to a customer for which the Group has received consideration 
(or the amount is due) from the customer. Contract liabilities include 
long-term advances received to deliver goods and services, short-term 
advances received to render certain services as well as transaction price 
allocated to unexpired service warranties, and loyalty points not yet 
redeemed.

232   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
14. 	
Revenue (Contd.)
14.5 	 Performance obligations and significant judgements
The Group’s performance obligations and significant judgements are 
summarised below:
Transportation
This operating segment provides an array of transportation related 
services, which primarily include a marine bunkering business, shipping, 
logistics and air transportation multinationals as well as travel and airline 
services. In providing airline services, net revenue is recognised at a point 
in time upon the sale of tickets as the entity is deemed as the agent. 
Total transaction price is comprised of cost and commission which is 
equal to the total ticketing service fee.
In providing Marine Services, the principal activity of the entity is to 
supply bunker services to their customers, in exchange for a bunker 
fee. The performance obligation can be termed as bunkering services. 
Revenue is recognised at a point in time, upon supply of the bunker to 
the vessels. Transaction price shall comprise of cost and mark up which 
is equal to total bunkering fee.
Consumer Foods 
Consumer Foods segment focuses on manufacturing of a wide range 
of beverages, frozen confectionary, processed meat and dairy products. 
Revenue is recognised at the point in time when the control of the asset 
is transferred to the customer, which is generally upon delivery of the 
goods. Revenue is measured based on actual sales, and therefore the 
output method is used for revenue recognition.
Retail
The Retail segment focuses on modern organised retailing through 
a chain of supermarkets. The office automation business comprises 
of distribution of printers, copiers, smart phones and other office 
automation equipment.
Revenue is recognised upon satisfaction of a performance obligation. 
The revenue recognition occurs at a point in time when control of the 
asset is transferred to the customer, which is generally upon delivery 
of the goods. The output method will provide a faithful depiction in 
recognising revenue. 
Customers who purchase from outlets may enter the entity’s customer 
loyalty programme and earn points that are redeemable against future 
purchases of the entity’s products. The entity will allocate a portion 
of the transaction price to the loyalty programme based on relative 
standalone selling price.
Leisure 
Leisure segment comprises of city hotels, resort hotels, as well as 
destination management business.
The revenue for providing the services are usually recognised at or 
after the guests' departure, over the period of stay or at the point of 
arrival of guests. The entity identifies the services under each contract 
as one performance obligation. The revenue is accounted based on 
the output method. Since revenue will be based on the final good or 
service provided, the output method will provide a faithful depiction in 
recognising revenue. 
In providing destination management services, the entity acts as the 
principal. Customer receives and consumes the benefits of the entity's 
performance, as and when the service is performed. Therefore, revenue 
is recognised at gross over the period, based on the output method. 
The timing and the amount of cashflow will vary according to the 
agreements.
Transaction price shall comprise of supplier fee and company mark-up, 
summing up to be the Gross Service fee. The advance payments are 
recognised as a liability. Upon provision of the services, the liability is set 
off and revenue is recognised over the period.	
Property
Property segment concentrates primarily on property development, 
renting of office, retail space and management of the Group’s real estate.
At inception of the contract, the entity determines whether it satisfies 
the performance obligation over time or at a point in time. Timing and 
amount of cashflow will be determined according to the agreement.
Financial Services
Financial Services provides a complete range of financial solutions 
including commercial banking, insurance, stock broking, debt trading, 
fund management and leasing. The services under one contract can be 
identified as one performance obligation.
Entity determines at contract inception whether it satisfies the 
performance obligation over time or at a point in time. For each 
performance obligation satisfied overtime, the entity recognises the 
revenue over time by measuring the progress towards complete 
satisfaction of that performance obligation. The output method will 
provide a faithful depiction in recognising revenue. 
Others
Others represents companies in the Plantation Industry, Information 
Technology, Management and Investments companies. The main 
streams of revenue; Management fees, BPO service fees and Consultancy 
fees, are recognised over a period of time, depending on service level 
agreements. 
Some contracts include multiple deliverables. Where the contracts 
include multiple performance obligations, the transaction price will 
be allocated to each performance obligation based on the stand-
alone selling prices. Where these are not directly observable, they are 
estimated based on expected cost plus margin.
Remaining performance obligations
The Group applies the practical expedient and does not disclose the 
amount of the transaction price allocated to the remaining performance 
obligations and an explanation of when the Group expects to recognise 
that amount as revenue for the year ended 31 March 2021.

233
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
15. 	
Dividend income 
Accounting policy 
Dividend
Dividend income is recognised when right to receive the payment is established.
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
In LKR ‘000s
2021
2020
Dividend income from investments in subsidiaries and equity accounted investees
 8,346,260
 6,367,610
16. 	
Other operating income and other operating expenses 
Accounting policy 
Gains and losses
Net gains and losses of a revenue nature arising from the disposal of 
property, plant and equipment and other non-current assets, including 
investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, are accounted 
in the income statement, after deducting from the proceeds on disposal, 
the carrying amount of such assets and the related selling expenses.
Gains and losses arising from activities incidental to the main revenue 
generating activities and those arising from a group of similar 
transactions, which are not material are aggregated, reported and 
presented on a net basis.
Any losses arising from guaranteed rentals are accounted for, in the 
year of incurring the same. A provision is recognised if the projection 
indicates a loss.
Other income and expenses
Other income and expenses are recognised on an accrual basis.
16.1 	 Other operating income
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
2021
2020
2021
2020
In LKR '000s
Promotional income and commission fee
 1,373,842 
 1,610,234 
 - 
 - 
Exchange gains
267,100
 25,178 
 - 
-
Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,646 
Profit on sale of non current investments
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2,008 
Write back of dealer deposits
 17,761 
 10,850 
 - 
 - 
Sundry income
967,841
 595,489 
 40,610 
 42,083 
 2,626,544 
 2,241,751 
 40,610 
 45,737 
16.2 	 Other operating expenses 
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
2021
2020
2021
2020
In LKR '000s
Nation building tax
 - 
 916,107 
-
 20,324 
Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
 6,005 
 97,007 
 - 
 - 
Impairment losses on non financial assets
69,660
 1,108 
 - 
 - 
Heat, light and power
 472,037 
 648,780 
 - 
 - 
Other overheads
 766,707 
 1,209,906 
21,473
 5,615 
 1,314,409
 2,872,908 
21,473
 25,939 

234   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
2021
2020
2021
2020
In LKR '000s
Net finance income 
Finance income
Interest income
 8,616,055 
 7,044,680 
 2,964,036 
 1,833,401 
Dividend income on
	 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
 136,895 
 181,795 
 - 
 - 
	 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income
 17,214 
 29,731 
 11,385 
 27,962 
Fair value gains on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
 351,012 
 211,281 
 - 
 - 
Investment related direct expenses
 (74,362)
 (71,124)
 - 
 - 
Exchange gains
 1,641,908 
 1,960,979 
 1,641,908 
 1,960,979 
Total finance income
 10,688,722 
 9,357,342 
 4,617,329 
 3,822,342 
Finance cost
Interest expense on borrowings
 (2,891,345)
 (1,883,689)
 (1,244,941)
 (237,046)
Finance charge on lease liabilities
 (1,503,908)
 (1,220,822)
 - 
 - 
Realised loss on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
 (273,953)
 (61,008)
 - 
 - 
Total finance cost
 (4,669,206)
 (3,165,519)
 (1,244,941)
 (237,046)
Net finance income
 6,019,516 
 6,191,823 
 3,372,388 
 3,585,296 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
17.	
Net finance income 
Accounting policy 
Finance income
Finance income comprises of interest income on funds invested 
dividend income, gains on the disposal of fair value through OCI 
financial assets, fair value gains on financial assets at fair value through 
profit or loss, gains on the remeasurement to fair value of any pre-
existing interest in an acquiree that are recognised in the income 
statement.
Interest income is recorded as it accrues using the effective interest 
rate (EIR), which is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future 
cash receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument or 
a shorter period, where appropriate, to the net carrying amount of the 
financial asset. Interest income is included in finance income in the 
income statement.
Finance costs
Finance costs comprise interest expense on borrowings, unwinding of 
the discount on provisions, losses on disposal of fair value through OCI 
financial assets, fair value losses on financial assets at fair value through 
profit or loss, impairment losses recognised on financial assets (other 
than trade receivables) that are recognised in the income statement.
Interest expense is recorded as it accrues using the effective interest 
rate (EIR), which is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future 
cash payments through the expected life of the financial instrument or 
a shorter period, where appropriate, to the net carrying amount of the 
financial liability.
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or 
production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time 
to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost 
of the respective assets. All other borrowing costs are expensed in the 
period they occur. Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs 
that the Group incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds.

235
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
2021
2020
2021
2020
In LKR '000s
Profit before tax 
Profit before tax is stated after charging all expenses including the following;
Remuneration to executive directors
 346,453 
 357,858 
 103,808 
 118,766 
Remuneration to non executive directors
 34,749 
 47,623 
 11,460 
 17,940 
Costs of defined employee benefits
 	 Defined benefit plan cost
 438,382 
 430,500 
 21,709 
 23,173 
 	 Defined contribution plan cost - EPF and ETF
1,068,968
1,080,749
 56,332 
 57,061 
Other long term employee benefits cost
 213,027 
 175,236 
 44,043 
 42,753 
Staff expenses
13,621,362
 13,397,240 
 476,165 
 553,433 
Share based payments
225,007
 328,425 
 66,035 
 87,085 
Auditors’ remuneration
	 Audit
49,352
48,846
 9,586 
 6,966 
	 Non-audit
6,202
4,676
 2,520 
 2,756 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment
 4,725,534 
 4,185,820 
 42,629 
 33,532 
Amortisation of intangible assets
 641,563 
 502,844 
 30,631 
 24,687 
Amortisation of right of use assets
 2,619,179 
 2,265,955
 - 
 - 
Impairment losses 
69,660
 1,108 
 - 
 - 
Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
 6,005
97,007
 - 
 (1,646)
Donations
7,074
4,872
 5,000 
 3,505 
18.	
Profit before tax 
 Accounting policy 
Expenditure recognition
Expenses are recognised in the income statement on the basis of a 
direct association between the cost incurred and the earning of specific 
items of income. All expenditure incurred in the running of the business 
and in maintaining the property, plant and equipment in a state of 
efficiency has been charged to the income statement.
For the purpose of presentation of the income statement, the “function 
of expenses” method has been adopted, on the basis that it presents 
fairly the elements of the Company’s and Group’s performance.

236   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
19.1 	 Basic earnings per share
GROUP
For the year ended 31 March
Note
2021
2020
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent
 4,772,100 
 9,413,788 
Weighted average number of ordinary shares
19.3
1,318,805
 1,318,217 
Basic earnings per share
 3.62 
 7.14 
19.2 	 Diluted earnings per share 
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent
 4,772,100 
 9,413,788
Adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares 
19.3
1,318,805
 1,318,891 
Diluted earnings per share
 3.62 
 7.14 
19.3 	 Amount used as denominator 
GROUP
For the year ended 31 March
Number of shares 
In '000s
2021
2020
Ordinary shares at the beginning of the year
 1,318,551 
 1,318,173 
Effect of share options exercised 
254
 44 
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue before dilution
1,318,805
 1,318,217 
Effects of dilution from:
	 Share option scheme
 - 
 674 
Adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares
1,318,805
 1,318,891 
20. 	
Dividend per share
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
2021
2020
LKR
In LKR ‘000s
LKR
In LKR ‘000s
Equity dividend on ordinary shares declared and paid during the year
Final dividend (Previous years’ final dividend paid in the current year)
-
 - 
 1.00 
 1,318,173 
Interim dividends
 1.50 
 1,978,317 
 2.50 
 3,295,960 
Total dividend
 1.50 
 1,978,317 
 3.50 
 4,614,133 
19.	
Earnings per share
Accounting policy
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to 
ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number 
of ordinary shares outstanding during the year. Diluted EPS is calculated 
by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the 
parent (after adjusting for outstanding share options) by the weighted 
average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year plus 
the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued 
on conversion of all the dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary 
shares.

237
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
21. 	
Taxes
Accounting policy 
Current tax
Current tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are 
measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to 
the taxation authorities. The tax rates and tax laws used to compute 
the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted, at the 
reporting date in the countries where the Group operates and generates 
taxable income.
Current income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is 
recognised in equity and for items recognised in other comprehensive 
income shall be recognised in other comprehensive income and not in 
the income statement. Management periodically evaluates positions 
taken in the tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable 
tax regulations are subject to interpretation and establishes provisions 
where appropriate.
Management has used its judgment on the application of tax laws 
including transfer pricing regulations involving identification of 
associated undertakings, estimation of the respective arm’s length prices 
and selection of appropriate pricing mechanisms.
The Group has complied with the arm’s length principles relating to 
transfer pricing as prescribed in the Inland Revenue Act.
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is provided using the liability method on temporary 
differences at the reporting date between the tax bases of assets and 
liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary 
differences, except:
• 	 Where the deferred tax liability arising from the initial recognition of 
goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business 
combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the 
accounting profit nor the taxable profit or loss; and
•	 In respect of taxable temporary differences associated with 
investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, 
where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be 
controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not 
reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, 
and unused tax credits and tax losses carried forward, to the extent 
that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the 
deductible temporary differences and the unused tax credits and tax 
losses carried forward can be utilised except:
•	 Where the deferred income tax assets relating to the deductible 
temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or 
liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the 
time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable 
profit or loss; and 
•	 In respect of deducible temporary differences associated with 
investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, 
deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable 
that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future 
and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary 
differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each 
reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable 
that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the 
deferred tax asset to be utilised. Unrecognised deferred tax assets are 
reassessed at each reporting date and are recognised to the extent that 
it has become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred 
tax asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at tax rates that are 
expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or liability is 
settled, based on the tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or 
substantively enacted as at the reporting date.
Deferred tax relating to items recognised outside the income statement 
is recognised outside the income statement. Deferred tax items are 
recognised in correlation to the underlying transaction either in other 
comprehensive income or directly in equity.
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset, if a legally 
enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current tax 
liabilities and when the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity 
and the same taxation authority.
No deferred tax asset or liability has been recognised in the companies 
which are enjoying the Board of Investment (BOI) tax holiday period, if 
there are no qualifying assets or liabilities beyond the tax holiday period.
 Sales tax
Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of sales 
tax except:
•	 Where the sales tax incurred on the purchase of an asset or service is 
not recoverable from the taxation authority, in which case the sales 
tax is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as 
part of the expense item as applicable; and
•	 Where receivables and payables are stated with the amount of sales 
tax included.
The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation 
authority is included as part of receivables or payables in the statement 
of financial position.

238   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Temporary differences associated with the undistributed reserves in 
subsidiaries for which a deferred tax liability has not been recognised, 
amounts to LKR. 2,880 Mn (2020 - LKR. 3,100 Mn). The deferred tax effect 
on undistributed reserves of subsidiaries has not been recognised since 
the parent can control the timing of the reversal of these temporary 
differences.
The Inland Revenue (Amendment) Bill, to amend the Inland Revenue 
Act, No. 24 of 2017, incorporating announcements implemented by the 
Inland Revenue Circular Nos. PN/IT/2020-03 (Revised) and PN/IT/2021-01 
was Gazetted on 18 March 2021.
21. 	
Taxes (Contd.)
21.1 	 Tax expense 
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
2021
2020
2021
2020
In LKR '000s
Income statement
Current tax charge
21.5
         2,169,340 
 1,878,025 
801,201
 614,311 
	 (Over)/Under provision of current tax of previous years
 (46,189)
 (5,110)
-
 - 
	 Irrecoverable economic service charge 
21.7
 163,682 
 4,682 
 - 
 - 
	 Withholding tax on inter company dividends and other taxes
-
 122,582 
 - 
 - 
Deferred tax charge/(reversal)
	 Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences
21.2
 (792,558)
 662,084 
 - 
 - 
21.6
 1,494,275 
 2,662,263 
801,201
 614,311 
 
Other comprehensive income
Deferred tax charge/(reversal)
	 Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences
21.2 
 135,306
 313,423 
-
-
135,306
 313,423 
-
-
21.2 	 Deferred tax expense
GROUP
For the year ended 31 March
2021
2020
In LKR '000s
Income statement
Deferred tax expense arising from;
	 Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes
 31,487 
 (16,861)
	 Revaluation of investment property to fair value
 (212,179)
 116,562 
	 Retirement benefit obligations
 71,433 
 (35,277)
	 Benefit arising from tax losses
 (626,830)
 575,652 
	 Others
 (56,469)
 22,008 
Deferred tax charged/(reversal) directly to Income Statement
 (792,558)
 662,084 
Other comprehensive income
Deferred tax expense arising from;
	 Actuarial losses on defined benefit obligations
 (19,781)
 16,623 
	 Revaluation of land and building to fair value
 155,087 
 277,980 
	 Net gain/loss on financial assets at fair value through OCI
 - 
 18,820 
Deferred tax charged/(reversal) directly to OCI
 135,306
 313,423 
As the Bill has been Gazetted and also printed by order of Parliament 
as of the reporting date, the Group's management, having applied 
significant judgement, have concluded the provisions of the Inland 
Revenue (Amendment) Bill to be substantially enacted, and have relied 
upon the income tax rates specified therein to calculate the income tax 
liability and deferred tax provision for the 2020/21 financial year of the 
Group.

239
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
21.3 	 Income tax liabilities
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2021
2020
2021
2020
In LKR '000s
At the beginning of the year
 1,747,597 
 1,504,819 
 389,510 
 225,587 
Charge for the year
 1,880,815 
 1,821,725 
 801,201 
 614,311 
Payments and set off against refunds
 (1,640,242)
 (1,578,947)
 (473,682)
 (450,388)
At the end of the year
 1,988,170 
 1,747,597 
 717,029 
 389,510 
21.4 	 Deferred tax 
GROUP
 ASSETS
LIABILITIES
As at 31 March
In LKR ‘000s
2021
2020
2021
2020
At the beginning of the year
 902,382 
 1,252,978 
 8,294,955 
 7,756,673 
Charge and release
 136,159 
 (368,492)
 (574,844)
 607,015 
Transfers / exchange translation adjustments
 50,486 
 17,896 
 -   
 (68,733)
At the end of the year
 1,089,027 
 902,382 
 7,720,111 
 8,294,955 
The closing deferred tax asset and liability balances relate to the following;
Revaluation of land and building to fair value
 (24,215)
 (24,646)
 4,684,580 
 4,927,392 
Revaluation of investment property to fair value
 8,735 
 (2,587)
 876,082 
 338,989 
Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes
 172,231 
 295,829 
 2,625,177 
 2,935,088 
Employee benefit liability
 35,783 
 39,104 
 (553,452)
 (276,732)
Losses available for offset against future taxable income
 971,047 
 679,832 
 (313,715)
 (125,756)
Net gain/loss on fair value through OCI
 (35,956)
 (54,779)
 -   
 - 
Others
 (38,598)
 (30,371)
 401,439 
 495,974 
 1,089,027 
 902,382 
 7,720,111 
 8,294,955 
A deferred tax liability for the Group amounting to LKR. 490 Mn (2020 
– LKR. 490 Mn) has been recognised based on the impact of declared 
dividends of subsidiaries and the Group’s portion of distributable 
reserves of equity accounted investees.
Accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions 
The Group is subject to income tax and other taxes including VAT. 
Significant judgement was required to determine the total provision for 
current, deferred and other taxes due to uncertainties that exist with 
respect to the interpretation of the applicability of tax law at the time of 
the preparation of these financial statements.
Uncertainties also exist with respect to the interpretation of complex tax 
regulations and the amount and timing of future taxable income. 
Given the wide range of business relationships and the long-term 
nature and complexity of existing contractual agreements, differences 
arising between the actual results and the assumptions made, or future 
changes to such assumptions, could necessitate future adjustments to 
tax income and expense already recorded. Where the final tax outcome 
of such matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, 
such differences will impact the income and deferred tax amounts in the 
period in which the determination is made.
The Group has tax contingent amounting to LKR. 1,999 Mn (2020 
– LKR. 2,055 Mn). These have been arrived at after discussing with 
independent legal and tax experts and based on information available. 
All assumptions are revisited as of the reporting date.	

240   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
21. 	
Taxes (Contd.) 
21.5	 Reconciliation between current tax charge and the accounting profit 
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
2021
2020
2021
2020
In LKR '000s
Profit before tax
 5,445,166 
 12,403,058 
 11,367,088 
 9,253,851 
Dividend income from Group companies
 9,342,572 
 7,907,867 
 -   
 - 
Share of results of equity accounted investees (net of tax)
 (4,158,793)
 (4,466,457)
 -   
 - 
Other consolidation adjustments
 7,965 
 426,233 
 -   
 - 
Profit after adjustment
 10,636,910 
 16,270,701 
 11,367,088 
 9,253,851 
Exempt profits
 (2,385,008)
 (492,229)
 (2,887,711)
-
Income not liable for income tax
 (1,573,563)
 (996,950)
 (1,568,812)
 (376,105)
Resident dividend
 (4,430,382)
 (3,652,657)
 (1,711,746)
 (3,187,351)
Adjusted accounting profit chargeable to income taxes
 2,247,957
 11,128,865 
 5,198,819 
5,690,395
Disallowable expenses
 12,349,659 
 9,363,417 
 1,215,376 
575,613
Allowable expenses
 (11,977,525)
 (8,717,930)
 (252,858)
(2,446,085)
Utilisation of tax losses
 (2,657,979)
 (2,822,950)
-
-
Current year tax losses not utilised
 7,379,636 
 727,609 
-
-
Qualifying payment deductions
 (909)
 (4,837)
 (15,852)
-
Taxable income
 7,730,839 
 9,674,174 
 6,145,485 
 3,819,923 
Income tax charged at:
	 Standard rate of 
 603,116 
  923,000 
 -   
 165,160 
	 Other concessionary rates 
1,566,224
 955,025 
 801,201 
 449,151 
Current tax charge
2,169,340
1,878,025 
 801,201 
 614,311 
21.6	 Reconciliation between tax expense and the product of accounting profit 
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
2021
2020
2021
2020
In LKR '000s
Adjusted accounting profit chargeable to income taxes
2,247,957
 11,128,865 
 5,198,819 
5,690,395
Tax effect on chargeable profits
 1,329,595 
 2,113,247 
 727,834 
584,716
Tax effect on non deductible expenses
 299,187 
  579,879 
 41,831 
 56,678 
Tax effect on deductions claimed
(408,463)
 (322,357)
 (2,219)
 (1,014)
Net tax effect of unrecognised deferred tax assets for the year
 (144,843)
 22,397 
 33,755 
 (26,069)
Net tax effect of unrecognised deferred tax assets for prior years
 13,106 
 162,255 
 -   
 - 
Under/(over) provision for previous years
 (46,189)
 (5,110)
-
 - 
Deferred tax due to carried forward tax losses
 545,981 
 (43,891)
 -   
-
Deferred tax due to rate differentials
 (257,781)
 (1,421)
 -   
-
Other income based taxes:
  
 	 Irrecoverable economic service charge 
163,682
 4,682 
 -   
 - 
 	 Withholding tax on inter-company dividends
-
 122,582 
 -   
 - 
Deferred tax on withholding tax of affiliated companies dividends
-
 30,000 
 -   
 - 
Tax expense
 1,494,275
 2,662,263
 801,201 
 614,311
Group tax expense is based on the taxable profit of individual companies within the Group. At present the tax laws of Sri Lanka do not provide for 
Group taxation.

241
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
21.9	 Applicable rates of income tax 
The tax liability of resident companies are computed at the standard rate of 24% except for the following companies which enjoy full or partial 
exemptions and concessions.
Company / Sector
Basis
Exemptions 
or 
concessions
Period
Exemptions / concessions granted under the Inland Revenue Act 
John Keells Properties Ja-Ela (Pvt) Ltd 
New undertaking engaged in construction of 
commercial buildings
Exempt
9 years from 1st April 2015
Saffron Aviation (Pvt) Ltd
Domestic airline 
- do -
8 years from 1st year of profit or 2 
years from operations 
Sancity Hotels & Properties Ltd (Subsidiary of 
Capitol Hotel Holdings (Pvt) Ltd)
Construction and operation of a tourist hotel
- do -
12 years from 1st year of profit or 2 
years from operations 
John Keells Information Technology (Pvt) Ltd
Information technology services 
- do -
Open ended
John Keells International (Pvt) Ltd
Exporting services 
- do -
- do -
Infomate (Pvt) Ltd
IT enabled services 
- do -
- do -
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC
Foreign sourced income
- do -
- do -
John Keells Office Automation (Pvt) Ltd
Off shore business income
- do -
- do -
Tea Smallholder Factories PLC
Agro Processing
14%
- do -
Lanka Marine Services (Pvt) Ltd
Qualified export profits 
- do -
- do -
Leisure sector 
Promotion of tourism 
- do -
- do -
Consumer Foods sector
Export of goods
- do -
- do -
Mackinnons Mackenzie shipping (Pvt) Ltd 
Shipping agent
- do -
- do -
21.7 	 Economic Service Charge (ESC)
GROUP
For the year ended 31 March
2021
2020
In LKR '000s
Irrecoverable Economic Service Charge (ESC) 
 163,682 
 4,682 
 163,682 
 4,682 
21.8	 Tax losses carried forward
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
2021
2020
2021
2020
In LKR '000s
Tax losses brought forward
 6,643,853 
 8,823,877 
 1,230,471 
 1,230,471 
Adjustments on finalisation of liability
 (113,857)
 (163,390)
 - 
 - 
Tax losses arising during the year
 7,430,517 
 806,316 
 - 
 - 
Utilisation of tax losses
 (2,657,979)
 (2,822,950)
 - 
 - 
11,302,534
 6,643,853 
 1,230,471 
 1,230,471 
The Group has tax losses amounting to LKR. 11,303 Mn (2020 - LKR. 6,644 Mn) that are available to offset against future taxable profits of the companies 
in which the tax losses arose.

242   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
22.	
Property , plant and equipment 
Accounting policy 
Basis of recognition
Property, plant and equipment are recognised if it is probable that future 
economic benefits associated with the asset will flow to the Group and 
the cost of the asset can be reliably measured.
Basis of measurement
Property, plant and equipment except for land and buildings are stated 
at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment 
loss. Such cost includes the cost of replacing component parts of the 
21. 	
Taxes (Contd.) 
21.9	 Applicable rates of income tax (Contd.) 
21.10	Income tax rates of off-shore subsidiaries
Country of incorporation
Company
Rate
India
John Keells Foods India (Pvt) Ltd
30.9%
Serene Holidays (Pvt) Ltd
25.0%
Mauritius
John Keells BPO Holdings (Pvt) Ltd
3%(Effective)
John Keells BPO International (Pvt) Ltd
3%(Effective)
Republic of Maldives
Fantasea World Investments (Pte) Ltd
15%
Tranquility (Pte) Ltd
15%
Travel Club (Pte) Ltd
15%
John Keells Maldivian Resorts (Pte) Ltd
15%
Mack Air Services Maldives (Pte) Ltd
15%
Singapore
John Keells Singapore (Pte) Ltd
17% (Max)
Company / Sector
Basis
Exemptions 
or 
concessions
Period
Consumer Foods and Retail sector
Asian Hotels and Properties PLC
Construction and operation of office, apartment 
complex and a hotel
2% of 
turnover
15 years from 1 April 2014
Beruwala Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
Construction and operation of a tourist hotel
Exempt
8 years from 1 year of profit or 2 
years from operations
Trinco Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
For upgrading and refurbishment of a hotel in 
the Eastern province
- do -
10 years from 1st year of profit or 2 
years from operations 
Infomate (Pvt) Ltd
IT enabled services
20%
Concessionary rate of 20% until 
closure of business
John Keells Logistics (Pvt) Ltd (Sites covered 
by the BOI agreement)
Warehousing
- do -
- do -
Waterfront Properties (Pvt) Ltd
Integrated super luxury tourist resort
Exempt
10 years from 1st year of profit or 3 
years from operations
Capital gains from sale of listed shares are exempted from chargeability to income tax. Income/profits from offshore dividends and interest are 
exempt from income tax. Effective from 1 January 2020, exemption is available on interest income earned in foreign currency denominated accounts 
opened with the approval of the Central Bank, gains and profits from services rendered in or outside Sri lanka to be utilised outside Sri Lanka where 
the payments is received in foreign currency through a bank in Sri lanka and dividend received from another resident company is subject to income 
tax at a concessionary rate of 14% and an exemption on dividend paid by a resident company to a member to the extent that dividend payment is 
attributable to, or derived from, another dividend received by that resident. 
plant and equipment and borrowing costs for long-term construction 
projects if the recognition criteria are met. When significant parts of 
plant and equipment are required to be replaced at intervals, the Group 
derecognises the replaced part, and recognises the new part with its 
own associated useful life and depreciation. Likewise, when a major 
inspection is performed, its cost is recognised in the carrying amount of 
the plant and equipment as a replacement if the recognition criteria are 
satisfied. All other repair and maintenance costs are recognised in the 
income statement as incurred.

243
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
Borrowing costs 
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction 
or production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of 
time to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the 
cost of the asset. All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period 
in which they occur. Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs 
that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds.
Impairment of property plant and equipment
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication 
that an asset may be impaired. If any such indication exists, or when 
annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group makes 
an estimate of the asset’s recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable 
amount is the higher of an asset’s or cash generating unit’s fair value 
less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual 
asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely 
independent of those from other assets or groups of assets. Where the 
carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset 
is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount. 
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted 
to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current 
market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to 
the asset. Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement, 
except that, impairment losses in respect of property, plant and 
equipment previously revalued are recognised against the revaluation 
reserve through the statement of other comprehensive income to the 
extent that it reverses a previous revaluation surplus.
The Group has not determined Impairment as at the reporting date 
due to the COVID-19 pandemic as each business unit implemented 
its business continuity plans which were operationalised during the 
early days of the pandemic. Businesses also developed and instituted 
COVID-19-specific response plans and teams to enable smooth and 
uninterrupted functioning of businesses and operations to the extent 
possible, whilst maintaining strict adherence to Government directives 
and health and safety considerations in situations where normal 
operations are disrupted. 
An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is 
any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no 
longer exist or may have decreased. If such an indication exists, the 
recoverable amount is estimated. A previously recognised impairment 
loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used 
to determine the asset’s recoverable amount since the last impairment 
loss was recognised. If that is the case, the carrying amount of the asset 
is increased to its recoverable amount. That increased amount cannot 
exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of 
depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in 
prior years. Such reversal is recognised in the income statement unless 
the asset is carried at revalued amount, in which case the reversal is 
treated as a revaluation increase. After such a reversal, the depreciation 
charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate the asset’s revised 
carrying amount, less any residual value, on a systematic basis over its 
remaining useful life.
Land and buildings are measured at fair value less accumulated 
depreciation on buildings and impairment charged subsequent to the 
date of the revaluation.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for 
impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the 
carrying value may not be recoverable.
Any revaluation surplus is recognised in other comprehensive income 
and accumulated in equity under the asset revaluation reserve, except 
to the extent that it reverses a revaluation decrease of the same asset 
previously recognised in the income statement, in which case the 
increase is recognised in the income statement.  
A revaluation deficit is recognised in the income statement, except 
to the extent that it offsets an existing surplus on the same asset 
recognised in the asset revaluation reserve.
Accumulated depreciation as at the revaluation date is eliminated 
against the gross carrying amount of the asset and the net amount 
is restated to the revalued amount of the asset. Upon disposal, 
any revaluation reserve relating to the particular asset being sold 
is transferred to retained earnings. Where land and buildings are 
subsequently revalued, the entire class of such assets is revalued at fair 
value on the date of revaluation. The Group has adopted a policy of 
revaluing assets by professional valuers at least every 5 years, except for 
properties held for rental and occupied mainly by group companies, 
which are revalued by professional valuers at least every 3 years.
Derecognition
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon 
replacement, disposal or when no future economic benefits are 
expected from its use. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of 
the asset is included in the income statement in the year the asset is 
derecognised.
Depreciation
Depreciation is calculated by using a straight-line method on the cost or 
valuation of all property, plant and equipment, other than freehold land, 
in order to write off such amounts over the estimated useful economic 
life of such assets.
The estimated useful life of assets is as follows:
Assets 
Years
Buildings (other than hotels)
50
Hotel buildings
up to 70 
Plant and machinery
10 – 25
Equipment
2– 15
Furniture and fittings
2– 15
Motor vehicles
4 – 10
Returnable Containers
10
Vessels 
10-25

244   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
22. 	
Property , plant and equipment (Contd.)
22.1 	 Property , plant and equipment - Group 
As at 31 March
 In LKR ‘000s
Land and
buildings
 Buildings on 
 leasehold 
 land 
Plant and
machinery
Equipment,
furniture
and fittings
Cost or valuation
At the beginning of the year
 61,384,997 
 30,615,473 
 15,324,453 
 13,839,202 
Additions
 33,807 
 1,035,142 
 713,591 
 775,379 
Disposals
 - 
 (13,481)
 (84,812)
 (259,613)
Revaluations
 316,726 
 160,304 
 - 
 - 
Transfers (from revaluation adjustment)
 (212,178)
 (444,722)
 - 
 - 
Impairment/ Derecognition
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Transfers 
 156,142 
 2,703,080 
 510,726 
 1,124,323 
Exchange translation difference
-
 695,305 
 1,132 
 159,385 
At the end of the year
 61,679,494 
 34,751,101 
 16,465,090 
 15,638,676 
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
At the beginning of the year 
 (1,035,399)
 (3,780,555)
 (6,321,197)
 (7,090,423)
Charge for the year
 (306,892)
 (1,155,563)
 (1,040,561)
 (1,438,953)
Disposals
 - 
 3,962 
 86,372 
 194,340 
Transfers (from revaluation adjustment)
 212,177 
 444,723 
 - 
 - 
Impairment
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Transfers 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 490 
Exchange translation difference
 - 
 (170,756)
 33,546 
 (66,864)
At the end of the year
 (1,130,114)
 (4,658,189)
 (7,241,840)
 (8,401,410)
Carrying value
As at 31 March 2021
 60,549,380 
 30,092,912 
 9,223,250 
 7,237,266 
As at 31 March 2020
 60,349,598 
 26,834,918 
 9,003,256 
 6,748,779 
22.2 	 Property , plant and equipment - Company 
 As at 31 March
 In LKR ‘000s
 Plant and 
 machinery 
 Equipment, 
 furniture 
 and fittings 
 Motor 
 vehicles 
 Total 
2021
 Total 
2020
Cost
At the beginning of the year
 3,768 
 299,825 
 50,162 
 353,755 
 344,585 
Additions
 253 
 8,824 
 - 
 9,077 
 23,601 
Disposals
 (567)
 (15,490)
 - 
 (16,057)
 (14,431)
At the end of the year
 3,454 
 293,159 
 50,162 
 346,775 
 353,755 
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
At the beginning of the year
 (3,736)
 (186,615)
 (19,051)
 (209,402)
 (184,043)
Charge for the year
 (15)
 (34,670)
 (7,944)
 (42,629)
 (33,532)
Disposals
 567 
 15,490 
 - 
 16,057 
 8,173 
At the end of the year
 (3,184)
 (205,795)
 (26,995)
 (235,974)
 (209,402)
Carrying value
As at 31 March 2021
 270 
 87,364 
 23,167 
 110,801 
As at 31 March 2020
 32 
 113,210 
 31,111 
 144,353 

245
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
Motor vehicles
Freehold
Returnable
containers
Others
Vessels
Capital
work in
progress
Total 
2021
Total 
2020
 767,738 
 941,469 
 5,925,209 
 1,003,576 
 4,939,524 
 134,741,640 
 117,935,817 
 60,960 
 7,375 
 349,480 
 62,913 
 2,328,372 
 5,367,019 
 15,211,909 
 (52,639)
 (13,731)
 (162,480)
 - 
 (24,326)
 (611,082)
 (1,091,032)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 477,030 
 2,855,920 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (656,900)
 (510,617)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (69,660)
 (69,660)
 (18,668)
 2,251 
 - 
 131,134 
 - 
 (4,646,397)
 (18,741)
 (649,302)
 (1,433)
 - 
 8,255 
 - 
 (38,336)
 824,308 
 1,007,613 
 776,877 
 935,113 
 6,251,598 
 1,066,489 
 2,489,177 
 140,053,614 
 134,741,640 
 (475,025)
 (641,586)
(3,566,987)
 (296,709)
 - 
 (23,207,882)
 (20,247,329)
 (62,736)
 (62,076)
 (536,436)
 (122,317)
 - 
 (4,725,534)
 (4,185,820)
 50,793 
 13,685 
 150,286 
 - 
 - 
 499,438 
 903,361 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 656,900 
 510,617 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 17,560 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 490 
 99,432 
 6,888 
 - 
 (3,198)
 - 
 - 
 (200,384)
 (305,702)
 (480,080)
 (689,977)
 (3,956,336)
 (419,026)
 - 
 (26,976,972)
 (23,207,881)
 296,797 
 245,136 
 2,295,262 
 647,463 
 2,489,177 
 113,076,642 
 292,713 
 299,883 
2,358,222
 706,867 
 4,939,524 
 111,533,759 
22.3 	 Revaluation of land and buildings 
Accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions 
The Group uses the revaluation model of measurement of land and 
buildings. The Group engaged independent expert valuers to determine 
the fair value of its land and buildings. Fair value is determined by 
reference to market-based evidence of transaction prices for similar 
properties. Valuations are based on open market prices, adjusted for any 
difference in the nature, location or condition of the specific property. 
These valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances 
and for which sufficient data is available to measure fair value, 
maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the 
use of unobservable inputs. The most recent revaluation was carried out 
on 31 December 2020.
The changes in fair value are recognised in other comprehensive income 
and in the statement of equity. The valuer has used valuation techniques 
such as market values and discounted cash flow methods where there 
was lack of comparable market data available based on the nature of the 
property.
The valuations as of 31 December 2020 were contained a higher 
estimation uncertainty as there were fewer market transactions which 
are ordinarily a strong source of evidence regarding fair value, the value 
reflected represents the best estimate based on the market conditions 
that prevailed, which in valuers’ considered opinion, meets the 
requirements in SLFRS-13 Fair Value Measurement.

246   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
22. 	
Property , plant and equipment (Contd.)
22.3 	 Revaluation of land and buildings (Contd.)
Details of Group’s land, building and other properties stated at valuation are indicated below;
Property
Name of the 
Chartered 
Valuation Surveyor
Method of 
valuation
Significant unobservable inputs
Estimated price 
per perch
Estimated price per 
square foot
Estimated 
discount 
rate
Correlation 
to fair value
Land and Building 
Asian Hotels & Properties PLC
P B Kalugalagedara
DCC
LKR 16,500,000 - 
LKR 19,000,000 
LKR 2,000 - LKR 13,000
 - 
Positive
Beruwala Holiday Resorts  
(Pvt) Ltd
-do-
DCC
LKR 800,000 -  
LKR 1,000,000 
LKR 3,000 - LKR 10,250
 - 
Positive
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC
-do-
DCC
LKR 170,000 -  
LKR 200,000 
LKR 1,000 - LKR 2,000
 - 
Positive
Kandy Walk Inn Ltd
S Fernando 
OMV
LKR 10,000 -  
LKR 1,175,000
LKR1,000 - LKR9,000
 - 
Positive
Keells Food Products PLC
P B Kalugalagedara
DCC
LKR 40,000 -  
LKR 550,000
LKR 400 - LKR 3,150
 - 
Positive
Keells Realtors Ltd
-do-
OMV
LKR 1,500,000 -  
LKR 2,250,000
LKR500 - LKR1,500
 - 
Positive
Mackinnons Keells Ltd
-do-
DCC
LKR 9,000,000
LKR1,900
 - 
Positive
Nuwara Eliya Holiday Resort (Pvt) 
Ltd
S Fernando 
DCC
LKR 515,000 -  
LKR 655,000
 - 
-
Positive
Tea Smallholder Factories PLC
K T D Tissera
DCC
LKR 5,000 -  
LKR 28,125
LKR 500 - LKR 2,000
-
Positive
Trinco Holiday Resort (Pvt) Ltd
P B Kalugalagedara
DCC
LKR 350,000
LKR1,000 - LKR 7,000
 - 
Positive
Union Assurance PLC
-do-
DCC
LKR 7,500,000 - 
LKR 18,000,000
LKR 500 - LKR 5,750
-
Positive
Vauxhall Land Developments 
(Pvt) Ltd
-do-
OMV
LKR 15,500,000
 - 
-
Positive
Buildings on leasehold land
Ceylon Holiday Resorts Ltd
P B Kalugalagedara
OMV
-
LKR1,800 - LKR3,850
 - 
Positive
Keells Food Products PLC
-do-
DCC
-
LKR150 - LKR1,500
 - 
Positive
Habarana Lodge Ltd
S Fernando 
DCC
-
LKR 500 - LKR 8,000
 - 
Positive
Habarana Walk Inn Ltd
-do-
DCC
-
LKR 1,000 - LKR 6,000
 - 
Positive
Hikkaduwa Holiday Resort (Pvt) Ltd
P B Kalugalagedara
DCC
-
LKR 2,500 - LKR 5,400
 - 
Positive
Jaykay Marketing Service (Pvt)Ltd
-do-
IM
-
 - 
6%
Negative
John Keells Warehousing (Pvt) 
Ltd
K T D Tissera
IM
-
LKR 800 - LKR 3,000
 - 
Positive
Rajawella Holdings Ltd
P B Kalugalagedara
DCC
-
LKR 2,000 - LKR 10,800 
 - 
Positive
Trans Asia Hotels PLC
-do-
DCC
-
LKR 400 - LKR 7,500
 - 
Positive
Yala Village (Pvt ) Ltd
-do-
DCC
-
LKR 2,450 - LKR 7,350
 - 
Positive
Effective date of valuation was 31 December 2020.

247
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
Summary description of valuation methodologies;
Open market value method (OMV)
Open market value method uses prices and other relevant information 
generated by market transactions involving identical or comparable 
assets, liabilities or a group of assets and liabilities, such as a business.
Direct capital comparison method (DCC)
This method may be adopted when the rental value is not available 
from the property concerned, but there are evidences of sale price of 
properties as a whole. In such cases, the capitalized value of the property 
is fixed by direct comparison with capitalized value of similar property in 
the locality.
Contractors method (CM)
The replacement cost (contractor’s) method is used to value properties 
which do not generally exchange on the open market and for which 
comparable evidence therefore does not exist. The valuations are based 
on two components: the depreciated cost of the building element and 
the market value of the land. Current building costs and often the land 
price will be established by comparison.
Investment method (IM)
The investment method is used to value properties which are let to 
produce an income for the investor. Conventionally, investment value 
is a product of rent and yield. Each of these elements is derived using 
comparison techniques.
22.4	 The carrying amount of revalued land and buildings if they were carried at cost less depreciation and impairment, would be as follows; 
GROUP
As at 31 March
2021
2020
In LKR '000s
Cost
 40,027,371
38,080,369
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
 (3,732,917) 
 (3,262,225) 
Carrying value
 36,294,454
 34,818,144 
23. 	
Right of use assets and lease liabilities 
Accounting Policy
Right of use assets
The Group recognises right of use assets when the underlying asset 
is available for use. Right of use assets are measured at cost, less any 
accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, and adjusted for any 
remeasurement of lease liabilities. The cost of right of use assets includes 
the amount of lease liabilities recognised, initial direct costs incurred, 
and lease payments made at or before the commencement date less 
any lease incentives received. Unless the Group is reasonably certain to 
obtain ownership of the leased asset at the end of the lease term, the 
recognised right of use assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis 
over the shorter of its estimated useful life or the lease term. Right of use 
assets are subject to impairment.
Lease liabilities
At the commencement date of the lease, the Group recognises lease 
liabilities measured at the present value of lease payments to be 
made over the lease term. In calculating the present value of lease 
payments, the Group uses the incremental borrowing rate at the lease 
commencement date if the interest rate implicit in the lease is not 
readily determinable. After the commencement date, the amount 
of lease liabilities is increased to reflect the accretion of interest and 
reduced for the lease payments made. In addition, the carrying amount 
of lease liabilities is remeasured if there is a modification, a change in 
the lease term, a change in the in-substance fixed lease payments or a 
change in the assessment to purchase the underlying asset.
The Group uses 6 months AWPLR based plus margin when calculating 
the incremental borrowing rate which reflects the average rate of 
borrowings in the Group. Quarterly calculated incremental borrowing 
rates were used to discount new leases obtained during the year.
Short-term leases and leases of low-value assets
The Group applies the short-term lease recognition exemption to leases 
that have a lease term of 12 months or less from the commencement 
date. It also applies the lease of low-value assets recognition exemption 
to leases of office equipment that are considered of low value. Lease 
payments on short-term leases and leases of low-value assets are 
recognised as expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The Group has not determined Impairment as at the reporting date 
due to the COVID-19 pandemic as each business unit implemented 
its business continuity plans which were operationalised during the 
early days of the pandemic. Businesses also developed and instituted 
COVID-19 specific response plans and teams to enable smooth and 
uninterrupted functioning of businesses and operations to the extent 
possible, whilst maintaining strict adherence to Government directives 
and health and safety considerations in situations where normal 
operations are disrupted.
Group land and buildings with a carrying value of LKR 3,878 Mn (2020 - 
LKR. 3,887 Mn) have been pledged as security for term loans obtained, 
details of which are disclosed in note 37.2.
Group property, plant and equipment with a cost of LKR 7,628 Mn 
(2020 - LKR. 6,365 Mn) have been fully depreciated and continue to be 
in use by the Group. The cost of fully depreciated assets of the Company 
amounts to LKR. 605 Mn (2020 – LKR. 611 Mn).
The amount of borrowing costs capitalised during the year ended 31 
March 2021 was LKR. 2,868 Mn (2020 - LKR. 1,934 Mn).	

248   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
23. 	
Right of use assets and lease liabilities  (Contd.)
23.1	 Amounts recognised in the statement of financial position and income statement
Set out below, are the carrying amounts of the Group's right of use assets and the movements for the year ended 31 March 2021.
23.1.1 Right of use assets
Lease hold
properties
Motor Vehicles
Total
2021
Total
2020
In LKR '000s
At the beginning of the year 
 37,080,343 
 89,927 
 37,170,270 
 13,629,028 
Additions
 4,585,193 
 2,956 
 4,588,149 
 9,283,645 
Disposals
 (2,624)
 (3,203)
 (5,827)
 -   
Transfers (SLFRS 16 initial recognition)
-
-
-
 14,829,336 
Amortisation expense
(2,578,634)
 (40,545)
 (2,619,179)
 (2,265,955)
Exchange difference
 1,483,437 
 - 
 1,483,437 
 1,694,216 
At the end of the year  
40,567,715 
49,135 
 40,616,850 
 37,170,270 
23.1.2 Lease liability
Set out below are the carrying amounts of lease liabilities and the movements for the period ended 31 March 2021. 
In LKR '000s
2021
2020
At the beginning of the year 
 21,292,786 
 13,629,028 
Additions
 4,584,504 
 7,607,634 
Transfers
 (122,000)
 27,443 
Interest expense
 1,503,908 
 1,220,822 
Disposals
 (3,203)
-
Payments
 (2,383,375)
 (1,984,238)
Exchange difference
 834,645 
 792,097 
At the end of the year 
 25,707,265 
 21,292,786 
Current
 1,472,297 
 1,382,662 
Non-current
 24,234,968 
 19,910,124 
Total lease liabilities as at 31 March
 25,707,265 
 21,292,786 
Following are the amounts recognised in income statement for the year ended 31 March
Amortisation of right-of-use assets 
2,619,179
 2,265,955 
Interest expense on lease liabilities 
 1,503,908 
 1,220,822 
Total amount recognised in income statement
4,123,087
 3,486,777 
Expenses relating to short term leases and leases of low value assets amounting to 293 Mn (2020 - 472 Mn) has recognized in profit or loss.

249
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
24. 	
Investment property
Accounting policy
Investment properties are measured initially at cost, including 
transaction costs. The carrying value of an investment property includes 
the cost of replacing part of an existing investment property, at the time 
that cost is incurred if the recognition criteria are met and excludes the 
costs of day to- day servicing of the investment property. Subsequent 
to initial recognition, the investment properties are stated at fair values, 
which reflect market conditions at the reporting date.
Gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are included in the 
income statement in the year in which they arise. Fair values are 
revaluated at least every 3 years by an accredited external, independent 
valuer. The most recent revaluation was carried out on 31 December 
2020.
Investment properties are derecognised when disposed, or permanently 
withdrawn from use because no future economic benefits are expected. 
Any gains or losses on retirement or disposal are recognised in the 
income statement in the year of retirement or disposal.
Transfers are made to or from investment property only when there 
is a change in use for a transfer from investment property to owner 
occupied property or inventory (WIP), the deemed cost for subsequent 
accounting is the fair value at the date of change in use. If owner 
occupied property becomes an investment property or inventory (WIP), 
the Group accounts for such property in accordance with the policy 
stated under property, plant and equipment up to the date of change 
in use. Where Group companies occupy a significant portion of the 
investment property of a subsidiary, such investment properties are 
treated as property, plant and equipment in the consolidated financial 
statements, and accounted for using accounting policy for property, 
plant and equipment.
GROUP
As at 31 March
In LKR ‘000s
2021
2020
Carrying value 
At the beginning of the year
 15,007,996 
 13,985,379 
Additions
113,015
 1,011 
Transfers
 - 
 523,233 
Change in fair value during the year
 (253,425)
 573,373 
Disposals
 - 
 (75,000)
At the end of the year
14,867,586 
 15,007,996 
Freehold property
 14,442,981 
 14,581,020 
Leasehold property
 424,605 
 426,976 
14,867,586
 15,007,996 
Rental income earned
 381,073 
 629,168 
Direct operating expenses incurred 
 160,565 
 211,590 
Accounting judgments, estimates and assumptions 
Fair value of the investment property is ascertained by independent 
valuations carried out by Chartered valuation surveyors, who have 
recent experience in valuing properties in similar locations and category. 
Investment property is appraised in accordance with LKAS 40, SLFRS 13 
and the 8th edition of International Valuation Standards published by the 
International Valuation Standards Committee (IVSC) by the independent 
valuers. In determining the fair value, the current condition of the 
properties, future usability and associated re-development requirements 
have been considered. Also, the valuers have made reference to market 
evidence of transaction prices for similar properties, with appropriate 
adjustments for size and location. The appraised fair values are rounded 
within the range of values.
The changes in fair value are recognised in the Income Statement. 
The determined fair values of investment properties, using investment 
method, are most sensitive to the estimated yield as well as the long 
term occupancy rate.
The valuations as of 31 December 2020 were contained a higher 
estimation uncertainty as there were fewer market transactions which 
are ordinarily a strong source of evidence regarding fair value, the value 
reflected represents the best estimate based on the market conditions 
that prevailed, which in valuers’ considered opinion, meets the 
requirements in SLFRS-13 Fair Value Measurement.

250   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
24. 	
Investment property (Contd.)
Description of valuation techniques used and key inputs to valuation of investment properties: 
 Property
Name of the 
Chartered 
Valuation Surveyor
Method of 
valuation*
Significant unobservable inputs
Estimated price 
per perch
Estimated 
price per 
square foot
Estimated 
discount 
rate
Correlation 
to fair value
Freehold property
Ahungalla Holiday Resort Ltd
S Fernando 
DCC
LKR 240,000 -
LKR 390,000
-
-
Positive 
Asian Hotels and Properties PLC
P B Kalugalagedara
IM
 - 
 - 
6.25%
Negative 
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC
-do-
DCC
LKR 1,550,000
LKR 1,000 - 
LKR 2,000
 - 
Positive 
Facets (Pvt) Ltd
S Fernando 
DCC
LKR 440,000
 - 
 - 
Positive 
Glennie Properties (Pvt) Ltd
P B Kalugalagedara
OMV
LKR 15,000,000
 - 
-
Positive 
John Keells Properties Ja-Ela (Pvt) Ltd 
-do-
DCC
LKR 1,250,000
LKR 4,500
 - 
Positive 
John Keells PLC
-do-
OMV
LKR 650,000
 - 
 - 
Positive 
John Keells Property Development (Pvt) 
Ltd
-do-
OMV
LKR 11,500,000
 - 
-
Positive 
J K Thudella Properties (Pvt) Ltd
P P T Mohideen
OMV
LKR 270,000
 - 
-
Positive 
Keells Realtors Ltd
P B Kalugalagedara
OMV
LKR 1,500,000 - 
LKR 2,250,000 
LKR 500 - 
LKR 1,500
 - 
Positive 
Trinco Walk Inn Ltd
S Fernando 
DCC
LKR 115,000 - 
LKR 320,000 
 - 
-
Positive 
Whittall Boustead (Pvt) Ltd 
P B Kalugalagedara
DCC
LKR 2,000,000
LKR 500 - 
LKR 1,500 
-
Positive 
Wirawila Walk Inn Ltd
S Fernando 
DCC
LKR 22,188
 - 
-
Positive 
Vauxhall Land Developments (Pvt) Ltd
P B Kalugalagedara
OMV
LKR 15,500,000
 - 
-
Positive 
Resort Hotels Ltd
S Fernando
DCC
LKR 100,000 -  
LKR 255,000 
 - 
-
Positive 
Leasehold property
Tea Smallholder Factories PLC
P B Kalugalagedara
DCC
LKR 2,500,000
LKR 1,000
-
Positive 
* Summary of valuation methodologies can be found in property plant and equipment Note no 22.3.

251
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
25.	
Intangible assets 
Accounting policy 
Basis of recognition
An Intangible asset is recognised if it is probable that future economic 
benefits associated with the asset will flow to the Group and the cost of 
the asset can be reliably measured.
Basis of measurement 
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition 
at cost. The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination 
is the fair value as at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less any 
accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Internally generated intangible assets, excluding capitalised development 
costs, are not capitalised, and expenditure is charged to income statement 
in the year in which the expenditure is incurred.
Useful economic lives, amortisation and impairment
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed as either finite or 
indefinite lives. Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over the 
useful economic life and assessed for impairment whenever there is an 
indication that the intangible asset may be impaired.
The amortisation period and the amortisation method for an intangible 
asset with a finite useful life is reviewed at least at each financial year-
end and treated as accounting estimates. The amortisation is calculated 
by using straight-line method on the cost of all the intangible assets 
and the amortisation expense on intangible assets with finite lives is 
recognised in the income statement.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives and goodwill are not 
amortised but tested for impairment annually, or more frequently 
when an indication of impairment exists either individually or at the 
cash-generating unit level. The useful life of an intangible asset with an 
indefinite life is reviewed annually to determine whether indefinite life 
assessment continues to be supportable. If not, the change in the useful 
life assessment from indefinite to finite is made on a prospective basis.
Present value of acquired in-force business (PVIB)
The present value of future profits on a portfolio of long term life 
insurance contracts as at the acquisition date is recognised as an 
intangible asset based on a valuation carried out by an independent 
actuary. Subsequent to initial recognition, the intangible asset is carried 
at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment 
losses.
The PVIB is amortised over the average useful life of the related contracts 
in the portfolio. The amortisation charge and any impairment losses 
would be recognised in the Income Statement as an expense.
Research and development costs
Research costs are expensed as incurred. An intangible asset arising from 
development expenditure on an individual project is recognised as an 
intangible asset, when the Group can demonstrate:
•	 The technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that it 
will be available for use or sale,
•	 Its intention to complete and its ability to use or sell the assets,
•	 how the assets will generate future economic benefits,
•	 the availability of resources to complete the assets,
•	 the ability to measure reliably the expenditure during development.
Following initial recognition of the development expenditure of an asset, 
the cost model is applied requiring the asset to be carried at cost less 
any accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Amortisation of the asset begins when development is complete and 
the asset is available for use. It is amortised over the period of expected 
future benefit from the use or expected future sales from the related 
project. During the period of development, the asset is tested for 
impairment annually. 
Contractual relationships
Contractual relationships are rights which provide access to distribution 
networks. Contractual relationships are initially recognised at cost and 
amortised over the contract period.
A summary of the policies applied to the Group’s intangible assets is as 
follows.
Intangible assets
Useful life
Type
Impairment testing
PVIB
12
Acquired
When indicators of impairment exists. The amortisation method is reviewed at each 
financial year end
Purchased software
5
Software license
5
Contractual 
relationships
5 - 10
Developed software
5 - 10
Internally generated
Annually for assets not yet in use and more frequently when indicators of 
impairment arise. For assets in use, when indicators of impairment arise. The 
amortisation method is reviewed at each financial year end.
Gains or losses arising from derecognition of an intangible asset are measured as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying 
amount of the asset and are recognised in the income statement when the asset is derecognised.

252   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
25.	
Intangible assets (Contd.)
25.1	  Intangible assets
Software
As at 31 March
In LKR ‘000s
Developed 
Purchased
Licenses
WIP
Cost/carrying value
At the beginning of the year
 630,542 
 960,145 
 1,393,201 
 41,661 
Additions
 1,284,547 
 68,018 
 234,735 
 - 
Transfers
 22,694 
 1,311 
 17,431 
 (22,694)
Disposal
 - 
 (39,182)
 - 
 - 
At the end of the year
 1,937,783 
 990,292 
 1,645,367 
 18,967 
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
At the beginning of the year
 (340,331)
 (326,706)
 (749,864)
 - 
Amortisation 
 (103,024)
 (106,414)
 (151,114)
 - 
Transfers
 - 
 (490)
 - 
 - 
Disposal
 - 
 39,182 
 - 
 - 
At the end of the year
 (443,355)
 (394,428)
 (900,978)
 - 
Carrying value
As at 31 March 2021
 1,494,428 
 595,864 
 744,389 
 18,967 
As at 31 March 2020
 290,211 
 633,439 
 643,337 
 41,661 
25.2	 Intangible assets - Goodwill
GROUP
As at 31 March
In LKR ‘000s
2021
Net carrying value
Goodwill acquired through business combinations have been allocated to following cash generating units (CGU's) for 
impairment testing,
Airlines Services
 5,054 
Cinnamon Hotels and Resorts
 166,248 
Consumer Foods
 299,293 
Financial Services
 265,360 
Logistics, Ports and Shipping
 2,641 
 738,596 
The recoverable amounts of all CGUs have been determined based on the fair value, less cost to sell or the value in use (VIU) calculation.
Group Intangible assets with a cost of LKR. 151 Mn (2020 - LKR. 89 Mn) 
have been fully amortised and continue to be in use by the Group.
Present value of acquired in-force business (PVIB) 
Upon acquiring a controlling stake in Union Assurance PLC (UA), the 
Group has recognised in the consolidated financial statements an 
intangible asset representing the present value of future profits on UA’s 
portfolio of long term life insurance contracts, known as the present 
value of acquired in-force business (PVIB) at the acquisition date. Further, 
PVIB recognised at the acquisition date will be amortised over the 
estimated life of the business acquired and reviewed annually for any 
impairment in value.

253
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
GROUP
COMPANY
 PVIB 
Goodwill
Other
Software Licenses
2021
Total
2020
Total 
2021
Total
2020
Total 
 2,249,000 
 738,596 
 840,738 
 6,853,883 
 6,541,834 
 626,030 
 592,561 
 - 
 - 
 600,000 
 2,187,300 
 386,663 
 25,611 
 33,953 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 18,742 
 2,000 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (39,182)
 (76,614)
 - 
 (484)
 2,249,000 
 738,596 
 1,440,738 
 9,020,743 
 6,853,883 
 651,641 
 626,030 
 (2,061,577)
 - 
 (86,416)
 (3,564,894)
 (3,136,142)
 (523,488)
 (498,849)
 (187,423)
 - 
 (93,588)
 (641,563)
 (502,844)
 (30,631)
 (24,687)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (490)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 39,182 
 74,092 
 - 
 48 
 (2,249,000)
 - 
 (180,004)
 (4,167,765)
 (3,564,894)
 (554,119)
 (523,488)
 - 
 738,596 
 1,260,734 
 4,852,978 
 97,522 
 187,423 
 738,596 
 754,322 
 3,288,989 
 102,542 
Accounting judgments, estimates and assumptions 
Impairment of goodwill
Impairment exists when the carrying value of an asset or cash 
generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher 
of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use (VIU). The fair value 
less costs to sell calculation is based on available data from an active 
market, in an arm’s length transaction, of similar assets or observable 
market prices less incremental costs for disposing of the asset. The value 
in use calculation is based on a discounted cash flow model. The cash 
flows are derived from the budget for the next five years and do not 
include restructuring activities that the Group is not yet committed to or 
significant future investments that will enhance the asset’s performance 
of the cash generating unit being tested. The recoverable amount is 
most sensitive to the discount rate used for the discounted cash flow 
model as well as the expected future cash inflows and the growth rate 
used for extrapolation purposes. 
The key assumptions used to determine the recoverable amount for the 
different cash generating units, are as follows; 
Gross margins
The basis used to determine the value assigned to the budgeted 
gross margins is the gross margins achieved in the year preceding the 
budgeted year adjusted for projected market conditions.
Discount rates
The discount rate used is the risk free rate, adjusted by the addition of an 
appropriate risk premium.
Inflation
The basis used to determine the value assigned to the budgeted cost 
inflation, is the inflation rate, based on projected economic conditions.
Volume growth
Volume growth has been budgeted on a reasonable and realistic basis 
by taking into account the industry growth rates of one to four years 
immediately subsequent to the budgeted year. Cash flows beyond the 
five year period are extrapolated using 0% growth rate.

254   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
26.	
Investment in subsidiaries 
Accounting policy 
Investment in subsidiaries is initially recognised at cost in the financial statements of the Company. Any transaction cost relating to acquisition of 
investment in subsidiaries is immediately recognised in the income statement. After the initial recognition, Investments in subsidiaries are carried at 
cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
26.1 	 Carrying value
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2021
2020
In LKR '000s
Quoted
26.2
 20,228,019 
 20,185,912 
Unquoted
26.3
81,106,517
 67,650,005 
101,334,536
87,835,917
26.2 	 Group quoted investments
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
Number of
shares
Effective
 holding %
Number of
shares
Effective
 holding %
2021
In LKR ‘000s
2020
In LKR ‘000s
Cost
Asian Hotels and Properties PLC
347,824,190
78.56%
347,824,190
78.56%
 5,381,562 
 5,369,619 
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC
77,321,326
81.36%
67,155,813
70.66%
 1,662,908 
 1,646,015 
John Keells Hotels PLC
1,169,598,478
80.32%
1,169,598,478
80.32%
 7,102,140 
 7,102,140 
John Keells PLC
52,834,784
86.90%
52,834,784
86.90%
 485,455 
 482,649 
Keells Food Products PLC
22,937,250
88.63%
20,364,054
79.86%
 1,239,768 
 1,237,188 
Tea Smallholder Factories PLC
11,286,000
37.62%
11,286,000
37.62%
 66,809 
 66,478 
Trans Asia Hotels PLC
184,107,284
82.74%
97,284,256
48.64%
 1,616,425 
 1,615,761 
Union Assurance PLC
53,035,715
90.00%
53,035,715
90.00%
 2,672,952 
 2,666,062 
 20,228,019 
20,185,912
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2021
2020
2021
2020
In LKR '000s
Market Value*
Asian Hotels and Properties PLC
 13,008,625 
 14,086,880 
 13,008,625 
 14,086,880 
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC
 48,074,534 
 61,470,454 
 41,754,126 
 53,388,871 
John Keells Hotels PLC
 11,111,186 
 13,567,342 
 11,111,186 
 13,567,342 
John Keells PLC
 3,698,435 
 2,588,904 
 3,698,435 
 2,588,904 
Keells Food Products PLC
 3,727,303 
 2,809,813 
 3,309,159 
 2,494,597 
Tea Smallholder Factories PLC
 462,726 
 310,365 
 462,726 
 310,365 
Trans Asia Hotels PLC
 10,291,597 
 12,832,278 
 5,438,190 
 6,780,713 
Union Assurance PLC
 16,573,661 
 17,501,786 
 16,573,661 
 17,501,786 
 106,948,067 
 125,167,822 
 95,356,108 
 110,719,458 
* 	 The indicative market values of the 2020 were based on 31 December 2019 active market prices, since as at 31 March 2020 shows factors which 
were indicative of an inactive market due to COVID-19 pandemic.

255
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
26.3 	 Group unquoted investments
 GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2021
2021
2020
Number of
shares
Effective
 holding %
Number of
shares
Effective
 holding %
Cost
In LKR ‘000s
Cost
In LKR ‘000s
Ahungalla Holiday Resort (Pvt) Ltd
 13,275,000 
 80.32 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Beruwala Holiday Resorts (Pvt ) Ltd
 219,725,653 
 79.78 
 - 
 - 
 3,586 
 3,619 
British Overseas (Pvt) Ltd
 61 
 61.00 
 61 
 61.00 
 - 
 - 
Ceylon Holiday Resorts Ltd
 18,260,784 
 79.60 
 - 
 - 
 3,850 
 3,753 
Cinnamon Hotels Management Ltd
 1,000,000 
 100.00 
 1,000,000 
 100.00 
 410,826 
 368,640 
Cinnamon Hotels Management International (Pvt) Ltd
50,000
100.00
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Cinnamon Holidays (Pvt) Ltd
20,000
80.32
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Facets (Pvt) Ltd
 15,000 
 100.00 
 15,000 
 100.00 
 - 
 - 
Fantasea World Investments (Pte) Ltd
 7,299 
 80.32 
 - 
 - 
 4,540 
 4,018 
Glennie Properties (Pvt) Ltd
 16,386,140 
 100.00 
16,386,140
 100.00 
 163,861 
 163,861 
Habarana Lodge Ltd
 12,981,548 
 78.99 
 - 
 - 
 4,125 
 4,292 
Habarana Walk Inn Ltd
 4,321,381 
 79.34 
 - 
 - 
 2,758 
 2,821 
Hikkaduwa Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
 107,596,700 
 79.60 
 - 
 - 
 2,604 
 2,524 
InfoMate (Pvt) Ltd
 2,000,000 
 100.00 
 2,000,000 
 100.00 
 39,590 
 37,553 
International Tourists and Hoteliers Ltd
 38,490,901 
 79.78 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
J K Land (Pvt) Ltd
2,302,760,246 
 100.00 2,302,760,246 
 100.00 
 23,027,602 
 17,047,210 
J K Packaging (Pvt) Ltd
 1,450,000 
 100.00 
 1,450,000 
 100.00 
 - 
 - 
J K Thudella Properties (Pvt) Ltd 
 45,346,760 
 100.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
JayKay Marketing Services (Pvt) Ltd
 202,239,025 
 81.36 
 - 
 - 
 204,958 
 185,655 
John Keells BPO Holdings (Pvt) Ltd
 19,000,000 
 100.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
John Keells BPO International (Pvt) Ltd
 1,500,000,000 
 100.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
John Keells BPO Solutions Lanka (Pvt) Ltd
 32,843,578 
 100.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
John Keells Information Technologies (Pvt) Ltd 
9,650,000
 100.00 
 9,650,000 
 100.00 
122,958
 121,970 
John Keells Foods India (Pvt) Ltd
 8,999,990 
 88.63 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
John Keells International (Pvt) Ltd
 199,160,000 
 100.00 
 199,160,000 
 100.00 
 671,655 
 669,395 
John Keells Logistics (Pvt) Ltd
 19,999,998 
 100.00 
 19,999,998 
 100.00 
 228,503 
 227,592 
John Keells Maldivian Resorts (Pte) Ltd
 49,044,238 
 80.32 
 - 
 - 
 17,932 
 17,362 
John Keells Office Automation (Pvt) Ltd
 500,000 
 100.00 
 500,000 
 100.00 
 68,263 
 64,848 
John Keells Properties (Pvt) Ltd
 101,804 
 100.00 
 101,804 
 100.00 
 - 
 - 
John Keells Properties Ja-ela (Pvt) Ltd
 95,436,000 
 100.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
John Keells Property Developments (Pvt) Ltd
 105,405,680 
 100.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
John Keells Residential Properties (Pvt) Ltd
 2,081,698 
 100.00 
 2,081,698 
 100.00 
 20,817 
 20,817 
John Keells Singapore (Pte) Ltd
 160,000 
 80.00 
 160,000 
 80.00 
 4,209 
 4,209 
John Keells Stock Brokers (Pvt) Ltd
 1,500,000 
 90.04 
 360,000 
 24.00 
 80,666 
 75,445 
John Keells Teas Ltd
 12,000 
 100.00 
 12,000 
 100.00 
 20,902 
 19,261 
John Keells Warehousing (Pvt) Ltd
 12,000,000 
 86.90 
 - 
 - 
 5,006 
 4,948 
Kandy Walk Inn Ltd
 6,165,484 
 79.03 
 - 
 - 
 4,105 
 4,118 
Keells Consultants (Pvt) Ltd
 928 
 100.00 
 928 
 100.00 
 2,032 
 1,920 
Keells Realtors Ltd
 7,500,000 
 95.81 
 5,100,000 
 40.00 
 119,124 
 119,124 
Keells Shipping (Pvt) Ltd
 50,000 
 100.00 
 50,000 
 100.00 
 - 
 - 
Lanka Marine Services (Pvt) Ltd
 34,805,470 
 99.44 
 34,805,470 
 99.44 
 1,403,053 
 1,394,958 
Logipark International (Pvt) Ltd
 60,407,698 
81.36
-
-
-
 1,058,750 
Mack Air (Pvt) Ltd
 89,260 
 100.00 
 89,260 
 100.00 
 36,981 
 35,164 
Mack Air Services Maldives (Pvt) Ltd
 4,900 
 49.00 
 4,700 
 47.00 
 2,021 
 2,021 
Mack International Freight (Pvt) Ltd
 13,000,000 
 100.00 
 13,000,000 
 100.00 
 1,792 
 1,204 

256   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2021
2021
2020
Number of
shares
Effective
 holding %
Number of
shares
Effective
 holding %
Cost
In LKR ‘000s
Cost
In LKR ‘000s
Mackinnon Keells Ltd
 31,966,951 
 100.00 
 31,966,951 
 100.00 
 670,166 
 670,166 
Mackinnon Mackenzie and Company (Shipping) Ltd
 139,092 
 100.00 
 139,092 
 100.00 
 65,848 
 65,790 
Mackinnon Mackenzie and Company of (Ceylon) Ltd
 1,244 
 100.00 
 1,244 
 100.00 
 29,122 
 29,122 
Mackinnons Travels (Pvt) Ltd
 499,996 
 100.00 
 499,996 
 100.00 
 30,583 
 29,452 
Mortlake (Pvt) Ltd
 43 
 100.00 
 43 
 100.00 
 20,000 
 20,000 
Nuwara Eliya Holiday Resort (Pvt) Ltd
 31,606,252 
 80.32 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Rajawella Holdings Ltd
 13,063,936 
 49.85 
 11,573,339 
 45.18 
 801,707 
 801,707 
Rajawella Hotels Company Ltd
 3,157,384 
 80.32 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Resort Hotels Ltd
 106,107 
 79.60 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Serene Holidays (Pvt) Ltd
 800,000 
 98.35 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
The Colombo Ice Company (Pvt) Ltd
 169,999,999 
 81.36 
-
-
 819 
 - 
Tranquility (Pte) Ltd
 637,499 
 80.32 
 - 
 - 
5,616
 5,241 
Trans-ware Logistics (Pvt) Ltd
 5,539,929 
 100.00 
 5,539,929 
 100.00 
 58,983 
 58,983 
Travel Club (Pte) Ltd
 29,059 
 80.32 
 - 
 - 
 3,667 
 3,444 
Trinco Holiday Resort (Pvt) Ltd
 8,120,005 
 80.32 
 - 
 - 
 3,590 
 3,484 
Trinco Walk Inn Ltd
 3,000,007 
 80.32 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Vauxhall Land Developments (Pvt) Ltd
 1,307,990,744 
100.00
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Walkers Tours Ltd
 3,737,634 
 98.51 
 3,737,634 
 98.05 
 191,018 
 185,218 
Waterfront Properties (Pvt) Ltd
5,784,919,845
97.96 5,053,995,419
87.37
50,612,655
 42,193,019 
Whittall Boustead (Pvt) Ltd
 5,341,105 
 100.00
 5,341,105 
 100.00 
 1,655,358 
 1,640,754 
Whittall Boustead (Travel) Ltd
 22,452,271 
 100.00
 22,452,271 
 100.00 
 276,325 
 273,882 
Wirawila Walk Inn Ltd
 1,706,750 
 80.32 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd
 28,268,000 
 75.33 
 - 
 - 
 2,740 
 2,691 
Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd- Non voting preference shares
 10,000,000 
 80.32 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
81,106,517
 67,650,005 
27. 	
Investment in equity accounted investees 
Accounting policy 
An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence. 
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and 
operating policy decisions of the investee, but is not control or joint 
control over those policies.
Associate companies incorporated in Sri Lanka of the Group which have 
been accounted for under the equity method of accounting are:
	
Capitol Hotel Holdings (Pvt) Ltd
	
Fairfirst Insurance Ltd
	 	 Indra Hotels and Resorts Kandy (Pvt) Ltd
	
Maersk Lanka (Pvt) Ltd
	
Nations Trust Bank PLC
	
Saffron Aviation (Pvt) Ltd
	
South Asia Gateway Terminals (Pvt) Ltd
A joint venture is a type of joint arrangement whereby the parties that 
have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the 
joint venture. Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control 
of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant 
activities require unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
Joint ventures incorporated in Sri Lanka entered into by the Group, 
which have been accounted for using the equity method, are:
	 Braybrooke Residential Properties (Pvt) Ltd 
	 DHL Keells (Pvt) Ltd
	 Sentinel Reality (Pvt) Ltd
The considerations made in determining significant influence or 
joint control are similar to those necessary to determine control over 
subsidiaries.
Nature of the entity’s relationship, principal place of business and the 
country of incorporation is disclosed in group directory.
The Group’s investments in its associate and joint venture are accounted 
for using the equity method. Under the equity method, the investment 
in an associate or a joint venture is initially recognised at cost. The 
carrying amount of the investment is adjusted to recognise changes in 
the Group’s share of net assets of the associate or joint venture since the 
acquisition date. Goodwill relating to the associate or joint venture is 
included in the carrying amount of the investment and is not tested for 
impairment individually.

257
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
The income statement reflects the Group’s share of the results of 
operations of the associate or joint venture. Any change in OCI of those 
investees is presented as part of the Group’s OCI. In addition, when there 
has been a change recognised directly in the equity of the associate 
or joint venture, the Group recognises its share of any changes, when 
applicable, in the statement of changes in equity.
Unrealised gains and losses resulting from transactions between the 
Group and the associate or joint venture are eliminated to the extent of 
the interest in the associate or joint venture.
The aggregate of the Group’s share of profit or loss of an associate 
and a joint venture is shown on the face of the income statement 
outside operating profit and represents profit or loss after tax and non-
controlling interests in the subsidiaries of the associate or joint venture.
After application of the equity method, the Group determines whether 
it is necessary to recognise an impairment loss on its investment 
in its associate or joint venture. At each reporting date, the Group 
determines whether there is objective evidence that the investment in 
the associate or joint venture is impaired. If there is such evidence, the 
Group calculates the amount of impairment as the difference between 
the recoverable amount of the associate or joint venture and its 
carrying value, and then recognises the loss as ‘Share of results of equity 
accounted investees’ in the Income Statement.
Upon loss of significant influence over the associate or joint control 
over the joint venture, the Group measures and recognises any retained 
investment at its fair value. Any difference between the carrying amount 
of the associate or joint venture upon loss of significant influence or joint 
control and the fair value of the retained investment and proceeds from 
disposal is recognised in income statement.
The accounting policies of associate companies and joint ventures 
conform to those used for similar transactions of the Group. Accounting 
policies that are specific to the business of associate companies are 
discussed below.
Equity method of accounting has been applied for associates and joint 
ventures using their corresponding/matching 12 months financial 
period. In the case of associates, where the reporting dates are different 
to Group reporting dates, adjustments are made for any significant 
transactions or events up to 31 March.
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
Number of
 shares
Effective 
Holding 
%
2021
In LKR 
‘000s
2020
In LKR 
‘000s
Number of
 shares
Effective 
Holding 
%
2021
In LKR 
‘000s
2020
In LKR 
‘000s
27.1 	 Investments in joint ventures
Braybrooke Residential Properties (Pvt) Ltd
102
50.00
 1,804,500  1,804,500 
-
-
-
 - 
DHL Keells (Pvt) Ltd
 1,000,000 
 50.00 
 10,000 
 10,000 
 1,000,000 
 50.00 
10,000
 10,000 
Sentinel Reality (Pvt) Ltd
6,863,673
40.16
 64,199 
63,324
-
-
 - 
-
27.2	 Investments in associates
Quoted
	 Nations Trust Bank PLC- Voting shares
 72,278,880 
29.49
 1,699,620  1,699,620 
 48,347,078 
19.72
 1,198,265  1,198,265 
	 Nations Trust Bank PLC- Non voting shares
 20,171,450 
52.10
 1,759,237  1,759,237 
 16,000,788 
41.33
 1,283,868  1,283,868 
Unquoted
	 Capitol Hotel Holdings (Pvt) Ltd
 3,249,232 
 19.47 
 325,483 
 325,483 
3,254,832
 19.47 
 325,483 
 325,483 
	 Fairfirst Insurance Ltd
 68,902,870 
 19.80 
 689,718 
 689,718 
-
-
 - 
-
	 Indra Hotels and Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
 67,050,025 
32.13
 670,742 
 565,361 
-
-
 - 
 - 
	 Maersk Lanka (Pvt) Ltd
 30,000 
 30.00 
 150 
 150 
 30,000 
 30.00 
 150 
 150 
	 Saffron Aviation (Pvt) Ltd
 24,887,160 
 40.00 
 248,872 
 248,872 
 24,887,160 
 40.00 
 - 
 - 
	 Saffron Aviation (Pvt) Ltd - Preference 
shares
135,530,835
-
 432,747 
 217,748 
135,530,835
-
 432,747 
 217,748 
	 South Asia Gateway Terminals (Pvt) Ltd
 159,826,750 
 42.19 
 7,346,367  7,346,367 
 159,826,750 
 42.19  7,346,367  7,346,367 
Cumulative profit accruing to the Group net 
of dividend
 8,207,432 
8,491,290
 - 
-
Share of net assets of equity accounted 
investees
 
 5,370,869  5,107,822 
 - 
-
 
 28,629,936  28,329,492 
 10,596,880 
 10,381,881

258   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
27. 	
Investment in equity accounted investees (Contd.)
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2021
2020
2021
2020
In LKR '000s
Market Value*
Quoted shares of Nations Trust Bank PLC
	 Voting shares
 3,997,077 
 5,782,390 
 2,673,593
 3,867,766 
	 Non voting shares
 1,216,338 
 1,613,716 
964,848
 1,280,063 
 5,213,416 
7,396,106
 3,638,441
5,147,829
* 	 The indicative market values of the 2020 were based on 31 December 2019 active market prices, since as at 31 March 2020 shows factors which are 
indicative of an inactive market due to COVID-19 pandemic.	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
27.3 	 Summarised financial information of equity accounted investees
South Asia Gateway
 Terminals (Pvt) Ltd 
 Other associates 
 Joint ventures 
 Total
As at/year ended 31 March
In LKR ‘000s
2021
2020
2021
2020
2021
2020
2021
2020
Group share of;
Revenue
 6,639,452 
 6,960,626 
 7,777,167 
 9,062,151 
 3,353,506 
 2,854,639 
 17,770,125 
 18,877,416 
Operating expenses including 
cost of sales
 (4,171,084)
 (4,482,461)
 (4,925,057)
 (5,935,617)
 (2,993,364)
 (2,463,494)  (12,089,505)  (12,881,572)
Net finance income
 137,887 
 (92,044)
 2,304 
 (873,763)
 (71,809)
 (11,046)
 68,382 
 (976,853)
Tax expense
 (420,612)
 294,246 
 (1,098,006)
 (748,705)
 (71,591)
 (98,075)
 (1,590,209)
 (552,534)
Share of results of equity 
accounted investees
 2,185,643 
 2,680,367 
 1,756,408 
 1,504,066 
 216,742 
 282,024 
 4,158,793 
 4,466,457 
Other comprehensive income
381,701
565,341
(121,007)
234,964
2,525
(498)
263,219
799,807
Total Comprehensive Income
2,567,344
3,245,708
1,635,401
1,739,030
219,267
281,526
4,422,012
5,266,264
Group share of;
Total assets
 10,429,627 
 12,300,550 
 123,748,882 
 112,555,107 
 6,912,727 
 5,230,906  141,091,236  130,086,563 
Total liabilities
 (3,921,435)
 (4,368,156)  (108,995,412)
 (99,471,192)
 (4,287,703)
 (2,660,973)  (117,204,550)  (106,500,321)
Net assets
 6,508,192 
 7,932,394 
 14,753,470 
 13,083,915 
 2,625,024 
 2,569,933 
 23,886,686 
 23,586,242 
Goodwill
 4,674,278 
 4,674,278 
55,712 
55,712
13,260
13,260 
 4,743,250 
 4,743,250 
 11,182,470 
 12,606,672 
14,809,182
13,139,627
2,638,284
2,583,193
 28,629,936 
 28,329,492 
Contingent liabilities
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Capital commitments
 - 
 - 
 142,202 
 199,359 
 5,776,691 
 6,742,274 
 5,918,893 
 6,941,633 
Other commitments and 
Guarantees
 - 
 - 
 14,801,322 
 15,445,819 
 - 
 - 
 14,801,322 
 15,445,819 
Dividend received 
 3,991,513 
 1,725,410 
 351,138 
 522,987 
 100,000 
 100,000 
 4,442,651 
 2,348,397 
The share of results of equity accounted investees in the Income Statement and the Statement of Other Comprehensive Income are shown net of all 
related taxes. 
The Group and the Company have neither contingent liabilities nor capital and other commitments towards its associates and joint ventures. 
Group's shareholding in Nations Trust Bank PLC (NTB)
The Director of Bank Supervision of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL) 
informed John Keells Holdings PLC, in terms of a decision taken by the 
Monetary Board of the CBSL, the Group has been granted further time 
till 31 December 2021 to reduce its shareholding in the voting shares 
of the NTB to 20 per cent. Subsequent to that, the Group is required 
to reduce its shareholding in the NTB to 15 per cent on or before 31 
December 2022. The Monetary Board has also required NTB to limit the 
voting rights of the Group to 10 per cent with effect from 31 March 
2018. NTB will continue to be an associate company of the Group. As at 
31 March 2021, the Group has an economic interest of 32.57 per cent in 
NTB.

259
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
Significant accounting policies that are specific to the business of 
equity accounted investees
Nations Trust Bank PLC (Bank)
Revenue from contracts with customers
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the 
economic beneﬁts will ﬂow to the Bank and the revenue can be reliably 
measured. The following speciﬁc recognition criteria must also be met 
before revenue is recognised.
Interest income and expense
The Bank calculates interest income by applying the EIR to the gross 
carrying amount of ﬁnancial assets other than credit-impaired assets. 
The Bank ceases the recognition of interest income on assets when it is 
probable that the economic beneﬁt associated will not continue to ﬂow 
to the Bank. Interest income on all trading assets and ﬁnancial assets 
mandatorily required to be measured at fair value through profit or loss 
is also recognised using the contractual interest rate in interest income.
Fee and commission income
The Bank earns fee and commission income from a diverse range of 
services it provides to its customers. Fee income can be divided in to the 
following three categories:
•	 Fee income earned from services that are provided over a certain 
period of time Fees earned for the provision of services are 
recognised as revenue as the services are provided. These fees include 
commission income and asset management fees, custody and other 
management and advisory fees.
•	 Fee income from providing ﬁnancial services are earned on the 
execution of a signiﬁcant act Fees and commissions arising from 
negotiating or participating in the negotiation of a transaction for 
a third party, such as the arrangement/participation or negotiation 
of the lending transactions or other securities are recognised on 
completion of the underlying transaction. Fees or components of fees 
that are linked to a certain performance are recognised after fulﬁlling 
the corresponding criteria.
•	 Fee income forming an integral part of the corresponding ﬁnancial 
instrument Fees that the Bank considers to be an integral part of the 
corresponding ﬁnancial instruments include: loan origination fees, 
loan commitment fees for loans that are likely to be drawn down and 
other credit related fees. The recognition of these fees (together with 
any incremental costs) form an integral part of the corresponding 
ﬁnancial instruments and are recognised as interest income through 
an adjustment to the EIR. The exception is, when it is unlikely that a 
loan will be drawn down, the loan commitment fees are recognised 
as revenue on expiry.
Dividend income
Dividend income is recognised when the Bank’s right to receive the 
payment is established which is generally when the shareholders 
approve the dividend.
Net trading income
Results arising from trading activities include all gains and losses from 
changes in fair value.
Rental income
Rental income is recognised on a straight line basis
Other income 
Other income is recognised on an accrual basis
South Asia Gateway Terminals (Pvt) Ltd
Stevedoring revenue 
Stevedoring revenue is recognised on the berthing time of the vessel. 
Storage revenue
Storage revenue is recognised on the issue of delivery advice. 
South Asia Gateway Terminals (Pvt) Ltd uses United States Dollar (USD) 
as its functional currency.
Fairfirst Insurance Ltd
Revenue from insurance contracts
General insurance business-gross written premium
Gross written premiums (GWP) comprise the total premiums received/ 
receivable for the whole period of cover provided by contracts entered 
into during the accounting period. GWP is generally written upon 
inception of the policy. Rebates that form part of the premium rate, such 
as no-claim rebates, are deducted from the gross written premium
Insurance contract liabilities - general
Non-life insurance contract liabilities include the outstanding claims 
provision (Reserve for gross outstanding and incurred but not reported, 
and incurred and not enough reported - IBNR/ IBNER) and the provision 
for unearned premium and the provision for premium deficiency.
28.	
Non current financial assets
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2021
2020
2021
2020
In LKR '000s
Other quoted equity investments 
 87 
 125 
-
 - 
Other unquoted equity investments
 28.1 
 147,665 
 144,368 
 92,346 
 89,049 
Other non equity investments
 28.2 
 62,442,051 
 39,933,976 
 17,518,775 
 195,929 
 62,589,803 
 40,078,469 
 17,611,121 
 284,978 

260   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
28. 	
Non current financial assets (Contd.)
28.1 	  Other unquoted equity investments 
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
In LKR ‘000s
Number of
shares
2021
2020
Number of
shares
2021
2020
Asia Power (Pvt) Ltd
 388,527 
 75,846 
 72,549 
 388,527 
 75,846 
 72,549 
Other equity instruments
 - 
 71,819 
 71,819 
 - 
 16,500 
 16,500 
 147,665 
 144,368 
 92,346 
 89,049 
28.2 	  Other non equity investments 
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2021
2020
2021
2020
In LKR '000s
Bank deposits
 18,503,408 
 1,269,863 
 16,729,867 
 125,472 
Debentures 
 9,955,243 
 8,038,787 
 - 
 - 
Preference shares
 351,430 
 320,957 
 - 
 - 
Government securities
29,703,638 
 27,478,202 
 - 
 - 
Deposits with non bank institutions
 367,613 
 226,699 
 - 
 - 
Loans to executives
28.3
 990,562 
 971,913 
 59,592 
 70,457 
Loans to life policyholders
28.4
 1,840,841 
 1,627,555 
 - 
 - 
Cash flow hedge 
 729,316 
 - 
 729,316 
 - 
 62,442,051
 39,933,976 
 17,518,775 
 195,929 
28.3 	 Loans to executives
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2021
2020
2021
2020
In LKR '000s
At the beginning of the year
 1,296,464 
 1,282,679 
 90,178 
 128,796 
Loans granted / transfers
 516,846 
 643,352 
 21,057 
 96,888 
Recoveries
 (480,910)
 (629,567)
 (32,237)
 (135,506)
At the end of the year
 1,332,400 
 1,296,464 
 78,998 
 90,178 
Receivable within one year
 341,838 
 324,551 
 19,406 
 19,721 
Receivable between one and five years
 990,562 
 971,913 
 59,592 
 70,457 
 1,332,400 
 1,296,464 
 78,998 
 90,178 
28.4 	 Loans to life policyholders
GROUP
As at 31 March
2021
2020
In LKR '000s
At the beginning of the year
1,627,555
 1,300,907 
Loans granted / transfers
885,798
 4,668,147 
Recoveries
(672,512)
 (4,341,499)
At the end of the year
1,840,841
 1,627,555 

261
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
29.	
Other non current assets 
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
Note
2021
2020
2021
2020
In LKR '000s
Pre paid cost
341,600
 304,566 
92,668
18,842
Work-in-progress - Waterfront project
29.1
 103,260,711 
 78,431,575 
 - 
 - 
Non current advances
977,904
 846,608 
 - 
 - 
 104,580,215 
 79,582,749 
 92,668 
 18,842 
29.1 	 Work-in-progress - Waterfront project
GROUP
As at 31 March
2021
2020
In LKR '000s
Freehold property*
 12,703,071 
11,541,115
Leasehold property*
 5,106,604 
3,111,860
Other constructions in progress
 82,275,284 
58,389,362
Contractor advances
 3,175,752 
 5,389,238 
 103,260,711 
 78,431,575 
* The freehold and leasehold property are located at Glennie Street and Justice Akbar Mawatha, Colombo 2.
Other Non-Current Assets represents the construction work in progress, 
which mainly consists of Freehold Land, advance paid on obtained Lease 
Land and other project cost incurred. Freehold land included under 
other non-current asset is carried at cost. Lease prepaid in advance 
consists of the prepayment made to obtaining the lease land rights 
for 99 years. Other project cost includes advances paid to contractors, 
directly attributable cost incurred on the project and borrowing cost 
capitalized. 
Details of the Waterfront Integrated Resort Project
The company is engaged in the development and construction of an 
integrated complex with an approximate area of 4,500,000 square feet, 
comprising of offices, residential units, a hotel and conference centre, 
retail and associate facilities and a car park.
Details of 
property
Leasehold
Freehold
BOI*
UDA**
Extent:
2A-3R-21.02P
13P
7A-0R-16.63P
Period: 
99 years from  
12-02-2014
99 years from  
01-08-2018
-
Lease 
commitment:
Upfront Lease 
rental of 
LKR. 3,030 Mn
Upfront Lease 
rental of LKR. 75.5 
Mn
-
* 	 Board of Investment
**	 Urban Development Authority
29.2 	 Total project cost - Waterfront project
Upon completion of the Waterfront project, the total cost will be 
allocated in the following percentages under each asset category. As 
estimated at this juncture of time the final project cost allocation will be 
done in an absolute manner once the project is at near completion.
Asset category
Type
Cost percentage
Property, plant and 
equipment
Hotel
52%
Investment Property
Commercial buildings
27%
Inventory
Residential apartments
21%
100%
 

262   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30. 	
Inventories 
Accounting policy 
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Net 
realisable value is the estimated selling price less estimated costs of 
completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale. 
The costs incurred in bringing inventories to its present location and 
condition, are accounted for as follows:
•	 Raw materials - On a weighted average basis
•	 Finished goods and work-in-progress - At the cost of direct materials, 
direct labour and an appropriate proportion of fixed production 
overheads based on normal operating capacity but excluding 
borrowing costs
•	 Other inventories – At actual cost
•	 Inventory work in progress includes transfer of Waterfront project 
apartments and commercial space – At actual cost
During the year ended 31 March 2021, LKR 100 Mn (2020 - LKR 85Mn) 
was recognised as an expense for inventories carried at net realisable 
value. This is recognised in cost of sales and other operating expenses. 
GROUP
As at 31 March
2021
2020
In LKR '000s
Inventories 
Raw materials
 628,872 
 675,155 
Finished goods
 7,391,309 
 6,539,106 
Produce stocks
 253,605 
 182,161 
Other stocks
 2,168,124 
 1,387,884 
Inventory work in progress
 43,854,213 
 41,384,448 
 54,296,123 
 50,168,754 
31. 	
Trade and other receivables 
A receivable represents the Group’s right to an amount of consideration that is unconditional. Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are 
generally on terms of 30 to 90 days. During the year, LKR. 1,314 Mn (2020 - LKR 1,136 Mn) was recognised as provision for expected credit losses on 
trade receivables.
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
Note
2021
2020
2021
2020
In LKR '000s
Trade and other receivables
 16,192,825 
 11,059,966 
 95,374 
 105,730 
Reinsurance receivables
 589,306 
 421,297 
 - 
 - 
Premiums receivable
 332,729 
 380,513 
 - 
 - 
Loans to executives
28.3
 341,838 
 324,551 
 19,406 
 19,721 
 17,456,698 
 12,186,327 
 114,780 
 125,451 
32. 	
Other current assets 
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2021
2020
2021
2020
In LKR '000s
Prepayments and non cash receivables
 3,293,460 
 4,132,193 
156,760
 990,557 
Tax refunds
 2,625,993 
 2,381,160 
14,141
 134,272 
 5,919,453 
 6,513,353 
 170,901 
 1,124,829 

263
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
33. 	
Short term investments 
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
Note
2021
2020
2021
2020
In LKR '000s
Quoted equities at market value
33.1
 3,471,266
 2,869,945 
 - 
 - 
More than 3 months and less than 1 year
	 Debentures
 1,236,380 
 88,353 
 - 
 - 
	 Bank deposits
35,678,228
 21,305,396 
34,553,213
 19,224,828 
	 Government securities
3,421,136
 1,088,626 
2,418,252
 - 
 43,807,010 
 25,352,320 
36,971,465
 19,224,828 
Less than 3 months
	 Debentures
 53,945 
 464,657 
-
 - 
	 Bank deposits
 18,367,744 
 10,781,041 
 13,698,244 
 8,147,175 
	 Government securities
 7,034,062 
 1,859,952 
 921,328 
 - 
Reported in statement of cash flows
 25,455,751 
 13,105,650 
 14,619,572 
 8,147,175 
 69,262,761 
 38,457,970 
 51,591,037 
 27,372,003 
33.1 	 Quoted equities at market value
Number of shares
Cost
Market value
As at 31 March
2021
2020
2021
In LKR 
‘000s
2020
In LKR 
‘000s
2021
In LKR 
‘000s
2020
In LKR 
‘000s
Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC
 - 
 490,393 
 - 
 34,934 
 - 
 22,803 
Cargills (Ceylon) PLC
 859,786 
 665,852 
 165,034 
 128,783 
 202,050 
 128,783 
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC
 144,425 
 24,348 
 96,611 
 18,748 
 89,796 
 18,748 
Ceylon Tobacco Company PLC
 93,780 
 - 
 90,537 
 - 
 91,881 
 - 
Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC
 7,729,919 
 5,570,045 
 676,842 
 520,075 
 660,908 
 504,199 
C T Holdings PLC
 394,306 
 - 
 66,777 
 - 
 67,032 
 - 
DFCC Bank PLC
 - 
 462,480 
 - 
 78,099 
 - 
 42,502 
Dialog Axiata PLC
 14,548,770 
 2,697,066 
 168,801 
 29,668 
 189,134 
 33,174 
Distilleries Company of Sri Lanka PLC
 - 
 1,662,840 
 - 
 29,999 
 - 
 30,763 
Hayleys Fabric PLC
 3,916,980 
 - 
 48,832 
 - 
 55,229 
 - 
Hatton National Bank PLC
 5,136,866 
 4,241,046 
 735,996 
 726,124 
 647,245 
 635,777 
Hemas Holdings PLC
 - 
 950,894 
 - 
 62,277 
 - 
 76,072 
John Keells Holdings PLC
 4,547,381 
 978,481 
 555,142 
 135,544 
 675,286 
 143,828 
John Keells Hotels PLC
 2,509,603 
 - 
 20,077 
 - 
 23,841 
 - 
Lion Brewery (Ceylon) PLC
 262,995 
 - 
 141,965 
 - 
 149,644 
 - 
National Development Bank PLC
 - 
 1,535,938 
 - 
 242,259 
 - 
 153,594 
Nestle Lanka PLC
 152,171 
 181,722 
 217,410 
 265,859 
 174,464 
 236,210 
Peoples Leasing and Finance PLC
 - 
 4,152,870 
 - 
 72,338 
 - 
 74,336 
Piramal Glass PLC
 - 
 9,810,292 
 - 
 59,070 
 - 
 44,146 
Sampath Bank PLC
 1,717,668 
 2,361,580 
 115,893 
 524,250 
 92,411 
 383,521 
Seylan Bank PLC
 - 
 616 
 - 
 31 
 - 
 21 
Sunshine Holdings PLC
 2,255,682 
 - 
 33,459 
 - 
 59,776 
 - 
Textured Jersey Lanka PLC
 7,314,236 
 3,489,689 
 210,337 
 108,581 
 292,569 
 137,723 
Tokyo Cement Company (Lanka) PLC
 - 
 4,589,292 
 - 
 114,458 
 - 
 203,745 
 3,343,713 
 3,151,097 
 3,471,266 
 2,869,945 
Above list mainly comprises of the investments made by Union Assurance PLC (UA) under the unit linked equity tracker fund.

264   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Revaluation reserve consists of the net surplus on the revaluation of 
property, plant and equipment and present value of acquired in-force 
business (PVIB).
Foreign currency translation reserve comprises the net exchange 
movement arising on the currency translation of foreign operations and 
equity accounted investees into Sri Lankan rupees.
The other capital reserve is used to recognise the value of equity-
settled share-based payments provided to employees, including key 
management personnel, as part of their remuneration.
Restricted regulatory reserve
Union Assurance PLC (UA)
Based on the direction issued by the IRCSL dated 20 March 2018, and 
subsequent approval, UA has transferred LKR. 3,382 Mn attributable to 
non-participating and non unit fund of unit linked business from the 
life policyholder fund to the life shareholder fund (SHF). The distribution 
of the one-off surplus to shareholders, held as part of the Restricted 
Regulatory Reserve, is subject to meeting governance requirements 
stipulated by the IRCSL and can only be released upon receiving 
approval from the IRCSL. The one-off surplus in the SHF is represented by 
government debt securities as per the direction of the IRCSL. 
Nations Trust Bank PLC (NTB)
Statutory reserve fund is maintained as per the requirement in terms 
of Section 20 of the Banking Act No 30 of 1988. Accordingly, a sum 
equivalent to 5% of proﬁt after tax transferred to the reserve fund until 
the reserve fund is equal to 50% of the Bank’s Stated Capital. Thereafter, a 
further 2% of proﬁts will transferred until the said reserve fund is equal to 
the Bank’s stated Capital.
Cash flow hedge reserve includes the fair value changes on the effective 
portion of interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges. 
Fair value reserve of financial assets at FVOCI includes changes in fair 
value of financial instruments designated as financial assets at FVOCI.
34. 	
Stated capital and other components of equity
Accounting policy
The ordinary shares of John Keells Holdings PLC are quoted in the Colombo Stock Exchange and the Global Depository Receipts are listed on the 
Luxembourg Stock Exchange. The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are eligible for one 
vote per share at General Meetings of the Company. The Group has in place an Employee Share Option Plan. Please refer Note 35 for further details.
34.1 	 Stated capital 
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2021
2020
Number of
shares
In ‘000s
Value of
shares
In LKR ‘000s
Number of
shares
In ‘000s
Value of
shares
In LKR ‘000s
Fully paid ordinary shares
At the beginning of the year
 1,318,551 
 62,881,295 
 1,318,173 
 62,806,482 
Share options exercised
1,113
 220,366 
 378 
 74,813 
At the end of the year
1,319,664
 63,101,661 
 1,318,551 
 62,881,295 
The number of shares in issue as at 31 March 2021 was 1,320 Mn which include global depository receipts (GDRs) of 1,320,942 (2020 -1,320,942 ). Further 
information on the composition of shares in issue is given under the share information section of the annual report. 
A quantum of 38,047,143 shares (2020 - 41,563,469) have been reserved to be issued under the employee share option plan as at 31 March 2021.
34.2	
Other components of equity 
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2021
2020
2021
2020
In LKR '000s
Revaluation reserve
 37,777,543 
 37,578,451 
-
 - 
Foreign currency translation reserve
 26,424,124 
 21,655,664 
-
 - 
Other capital reserve
 2,863,766 
 2,700,147 
 2,863,766 
 2,700,147 
Restricted regulatory reserve
 3,626,604 
 3,564,742 
-
 - 
Cash flow hedge reserve
 349,024 
 (508,480)
729,316
 - 
Fair value reserve of financial assets at FVOCI
1,362,079
 1,094,830 
 28,094 
 24,797 
72,403,140
 66,085,354 
3,621,176
 2,724,944 

265
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
35. 	
Share-based payment plans 
Accounting Policy
Employee share option plan - Equity-settled transactions
Employees of the Group receive remuneration in the form of share-
based payment transactions, whereby employees render services as 
consideration for equity instruments (equity-settled transactions).
The Group applies SLFRS 2 Share Based Payments in accounting for 
employee remuneration in the form of shares from 1 April 2013 onwards.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with 
a corresponding increase in other capital reserves in equity, over the 
period in which the performance and service conditions are fulfilled. 
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at 
each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which 
the vesting period has expired and the Group’s best estimate of the 
number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest. The expense or 
credit to the income statement for a period represents the movement 
in cumulative expense recognised as at the beginning and end of that 
period and is recognised in employee benefits expense.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, 
except for equity-settled transactions where vesting is conditional 
upon a market or non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting 
irrespective of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is 
satisfied, provided that all other performance and service conditions are 
satisfied.
Where the terms of an equity-settled transaction award are modified, 
the minimum expense recognised is the expense as if the terms had not 
been modified, if the original terms of the award are met. An additional 
expense is recognised for any modification that increases the total fair 
value of the share-based payment transaction, or is otherwise beneficial 
to the employee as measured at the date of modification.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share 
dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per share (further details 
are given in Note 19.2).
Employee share option scheme
Under the John Keells Group’s Employees share option scheme (ESOP), 
share options of the parent are granted to executives of the Group 
generally with more than 12 months of service. The exercise price of the 
share options is equal to the 30 days volume weighted average market 
price of the underlying shares on the date of grant. The share options 
vest over a period of four years and is dependent on a performance 
criteria and a service criteria. The performance criteria being a minimum 
performance achievement of “Met Expectations” and service criteria 
being that the employee has to be in employment at the time the share 
options vest. The fair value of the share options is estimated at the grant 
date using a binomial option pricing model, taking into account the 
terms and conditions upon which the share options were granted.
The contractual term for each option granted is five years. There are no 
cash settlement alternatives. The Group does not have a past practice of 
cash settlement for these share options.
Share-based payment plans 
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
2021
2020
2021
2020
In LKR '000s
Total expense arising from share-based payment transactions
 225,007
328,425
 66,035
 87,085
Movements in the year
The following table illustrates the number (No.) and weighted average exercise prices (WAEP) of, and movements in, share options during the year;
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2021
2020
2021
2020
No.
WAEP
No.
WAEP
No.
WAEP
No.
WAEP
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 
 41,563,469 
 152.67 
 45,736,456 
 159.26 
 14,419,940 
 152.76 
 16,231,867 
 159.80 
Granted during the year
 6,557,100 
 132.86 
 6,568,000 
 136.97 
 1,819,700 
132.86
 2,124,000 
136.97
Transfers
-
-
 - 
 - 
 (56,195)
159.13
 (173,386)
148.55
Exercised during the year
 (1,113,183)
 142.81 
 (377,489)
 147.21 
 (363,100)
142.83
 (101,311)
148.55
Expired during the year
 (8,960,243)
 150.47  (10,363,498)
 172.01 
 (3,049,045)
 150.13 
 (3,661,230)
 174.61 
Outstanding at the end of the year
 38,047,143 
 150.06 
 41,563,469 
 152.67 
 12,771,300 
 150.82 
 14,419,940 
 152.76 
Exercisable at the end of the year
 22,717,896 
 155.17 
 23,800,846 
 154.13 
 8,392,388 
 155.40 
 9,199,686 
 154.43 

266   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions 
The Group measures the cost of equity-settled transactions with 
employees by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments at 
the date at which they are granted. Estimating fair value for share-based 
payment transactions require determination of the most appropriate 
valuation model, which is dependent on the terms and conditions of the 
grant. This estimate also requires determination of the most appropriate 
inputs to the valuation model including the expected life of the share 
option, volatility and dividend yield and making assumptions about 
them.
The expected life of the share options is based on historical data and 
current expectations and is not necessarily indicative of exercise patterns 
that may occur. The expected volatility reflects the assumption that 
the historical volatility over a period similar to the life of the options 
is indicative of future trends, which may not necessarily be the actual 
outcome either.
The following information were used and results was generated using 
binomial model for ESOP.
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2021
Plan no 10
award 2
2020
Plan no 10
award 1
2019
Plan no 9
award 3
2018
Plan no 9
award 2
2017
Plan no 9
award 1
Dividend yield (%)
3.87
 3.62 
 3.76 
 3.99 
 2.18 
Expected volatility (%)
21.35
 17.47 
 17.77 
 17.54 
 21.05 
Risk free interest rate (%)
6.44
 9.83 
 10.09 
 11.48 
 11.91 
Expected life of share options (Years)
5
5
5
5
5
Weighted average share price at the grant date (LKR)
134.74
 138.70 
 154.10 
 173.25 
 142.83 
Weighted average remaining contractual life for the share options outstanding 
(Years)
 3 
 3 
 3 
 3 
 3 
Weighted average fair value of options granted during the year (LKR) 
44.91
 46.23 
51.37
 56.27 
 56.29 
Exercise price for options outstanding at the end of the year (LKR)
132.86
 136.97 
 154.10 
 173.25 
 142.83 
Exercise price for options outstanding at the end of the year (LKR) (adjusted as at 
31-03-2021)
132.86
 136.97 
 154.10 
173.25
 142.83 
36.	
Insurance contract liabilities
Accounting policy 
Insurance contract liabilities 
The long term and unit linked insurance business provisions are based on the recommendation of the independent external actuary following 
annual valuation of the life insurance business. The actuarial valuation takes into account all liabilities including contingent liabilities and is based on 
assumptions recommended by the actuary.
36.1 	 Insurance contract liabilities 
GROUP
As at 31 March
2021
2020
In LKR '000s
Insurance contract liabilities
 44,791,714 
 37,856,844 
Unclaimed benefits
 368,897 
 328,995 
 45,160,611 
 38,185,839 
Life insurance contract liabilities 
Life insurance contract liabilities are recognised when contracts are 
entered into and premiums are charged. These liabilities are measured 
by using the gross premium valuation method as prescribed by the 
Regulation of Insurance Industry Act, No. 43 of 2000. The liability is 
determined as the discounted value of the expected contractual cash 
outflows less the discounted value of the expected premiums. Valuation 
assumptions are derived based on the best estimate experience 
with a prescribed risk margin to allow for adverse deviations. Non 
participating liabilities are discounted using the risk free yields. The 
value of participating policy liabilities is the higher of the value of the 
guaranteed benefits liability and the total benefits liability, derived at 
35. 	
Share-based payment plans (Contd.)

267
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
the participating insurance fund level. In calculating the guaranteed 
benefits liability, only the guaranteed benefits are considered and the 
cashflows are discounted using the risk free interest rate yield curve. 
Total benefits liability includes all the guaranteed and non guaranteed 
benefits, and discount the cash flows using the fund based yield of the 
participating insurance fund. The Liability is de-recognised when the 
contract expenses is discharged or is cancelled. At each reporting date, 
an assessment is made of whether the recognised life insurance liabilities 
are adequate, by using a liability adequacy test.
Liability adequacy test (LAT)
At each reporting date, an assessment is made of whether the recognised 
life insurance liabilities are adequate by using an existing liability adequacy 
test as laid out under SLFRS 4. The liability value is adjusted to the extent 
that it is adequate to meet future benefits and expenses. In performing 
the adequacy test, current best estimates of future contractual cash 
flows, including related cash flows such as claims handling and policy 
administration expenses, policyholder options and guarantees, as well as 
investment income from assets backing such liabilities, are used.
Any deficiency is recognised in the income statement by setting up a 
provision for liability adequacy.
Accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions
Product classification
SLFRS 4 requires contracts written by insurers to be classified as either 
insurance contracts or investment contracts depending on the level of 
insurance risk transferred. 
Insurance contracts are contracts under which one party (the Insurer) 
accepts significant insurance risk from another party (the policyholder) 
by agreeing to compensate the policyholder if a specified uncertain 
future event (the insured event) adversely affects the policyholder. 
Significant insurance risk exists if an insured event could cause an insurer 
to pay significant additional benefits in any scenario, excluding scenarios 
that lack commercial substance (i.e. have no discernible effect on the 
economics of the transaction). The classification of contracts identifies 
both the insurance contracts that the company issues and reinsurance 
contracts that the company holds. 
Contracts where the company does not assume a significant insurance 
risk is classified as investment contracts. 
Investment contracts are those contracts that transfer significant 
financial risks and no significant insurance risks. Financial risk is the risk 
of a possible future change in one or more of a specified interest rates, 
financial instrument prices, commodity prices, foreign exchange rates, 
index of price or rates, credit ratings or credit index or other variables, 
provided in the case of a non financial variable that the variable is not 
specific to a party to the contract.
Once a contract has been classified as an insurance contract, it remains 
an insurance contract for the remainder of its lifetime, even if the 
insurance risk reduces significantly during this period, unless all rights 
and obligations are extinguished or expired. Investment contracts 
can, however, be reclassified as insurance contracts after inception if 
insurance risk becomes significant.
Insurance and investment contracts are further classified as being either 
with or without discretionary participating features.
Discretionary participating features (DPF)
DPF is a contractual right to receive, as a supplement to guaranteed 
benefits, additional benefits that;
• 	 are likely to be a significant portion of the total contractual benefits;
• 	 the amount or timing of which is contractually at the discretion of the 
issuer; and contractually based on:
• 	 The performance of a specified pool of contracts or a specified type of 
contract,
• 	 Realised and or unrealised investment returns on a specified pool of 
assets held by the issuer, and
• 	 The profit or loss of the company, fund or other entity that issues the 
contract.
Derivatives embedded in an insurance contract or an investment 
contract with DPF are separated and fair valued through the income 
statement unless the embedded derivative itself is an insurance contract 
or investment contract with DPF. The derivative is also not separated if 
the host insurance contract and / or investment contract with DPF is 
measured at fair value through the profit and loss.
IRCSL regulations and the terms and conditions of these contracts 
set out the bases for the determination of the amounts on which the 
additional discretionary benefits are based (the DPF eligible surplus) 
and within which the company may exercise its discretion as to the 
quantum and timing of their payment to contract holders. At least 90% 
of the eligible surplus must be attributed to contract holders as a group 
(which can include future contract holders) and the amount and timing 
of the distribution to individual contract holders is at the discretion 
of the company, subject to the advice of the appointed actuary. 
All DPF liabilities including unallocated surpluses, both guaranteed 
and discretionary, at the end of the reporting period are held within 
insurance contract liabilities, as appropriate.
Valuation of life insurance contract liabilities
Long duration contract liabilities included in the life insurance fund, 
result primarily from traditional participating and non participating life 
insurance products. Short duration contract liabilities are primarily group 
term, accident and health insurance products. The actuarial reserves 
have been established based on the following; 
• 	 Non participating liabilities are discounted using risk free yield curve 
provided by the IRCSL and the participating liabilities are based on the 
fund yield of the life fund.
• 	 Mortality rates based on published mortality tables adjusted for actual 
experience as required by regulations issued by the IRCSL.
• 	 Surrender rates based on actual experience.
The amount of policyholder dividend to be paid is determined annually 
by the company. The dividend includes life policyholders share of net 
income that is required to be allocated by the insurance contract.
Mortality, morbidity, longevity, investment returns, expenses, lapses, 
surrender rates and discount rates were the assumptions used for the 
valuation of insurance contract liabilities. For those contracts that insure 
risk related to longevity, prudent allowance is made for expected future 
mortality improvements, as well as wide ranging changes to the life 
style, which could result in significant changes to the expected future 
mortality exposure.

268   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Estimates are also made for future investment income arising from the 
assets backing Life Insurance contracts. These estimates are based on 
current market returns, as well as expectations about future economic 
and financial developments.
Assumptions on future expenses are based on current expense levels, 
adjusted for expected expense inflation, if appropriate. Lapse and 
surrender rates are based on the company’s historical experience of 
lapses and surrenders.
There is no material impact on the assumptions used for the valuation 
of insurance contract liabilities due to COVID-19 outbreak as at 31 
March 2021 since insurance contract liability valuations use long 
term assumptions except for risk free interest rate which has dropped 
drastically during the year was used for discounting nonparticipating 
insurance contract liabilities. However, there is no significant impact 
given the Company’s liability composition.
Valuation of life insurance fund
The valuation of the conventional life insurance fund as at 31 
December 2020 was carried out by Mr. Vivek Jalan FIA, FIAI of 
Willis Towers Watson India (Pvt) Ltd and a sum of LKR. 825 Mn 
was transferred from the conventional life insurance fund to the 
shareholders fund for the year 2020. Subsequent to the transfer the 
conventional life fund stood at LKR. 41,827 Mn.
Similarly, the non unit fund of linked long term business valuation 
was carried out by Mr. Vivek Jalan FIA, FIAI of Willis Towers Watson 
India (Pvt) Ltd and non unit fund stood at LKR. 55 Mn.
In the opinion of the consultant actuary, the admissible assets of 
the conventional life insurance fund and the non unit fund of linked 
long term business as at 31 December 2020 is adequate to cover the 
liabilities of the funds.
As at 31 March 2021, an internal actuarial valuation has been carried 
out for the conventional life insurance fund and the non unit fund of 
linked long term business. In the opinion, it was concluded that the 
admissible assets are adequate to cover the liabilities of the funds.
One - off surplus arising from change in policy
liability valuation
The one-off surplus comprises of LKR. 432.5 Mn attributable to 
participating business and LKR. 2.5 Mn attributable to unit linked fund 
and LKR. 3,382 Mn attributable to non-participating and non-unit fund 
of unit linked business.
Based on the directions issued by the IRCSL dated 20 March 2018 and 
subsequent approval, the Company has transferred LKR. 3,382 Mn 
attributable to non - participating and non-unit fund of unit linked 
business from life policyholder fund through Income Statement to life 
shareholder fund and held as part of the Restricted Regulatory Reserve 
under equity in the statement of financial position.
One - off Surplus was determined as the difference between the 
NPV solvency basis liability and the GPV distribution basis liability as 
of 31 December 2015. This is calculated for Participating and other 
than participating funds, separately. Above basis is in line with the 
‘Minimum One - off Surplus’ calculation basis provided in the IRCSL 
guideline.
Movement in Life Insurance fund
As at 31 December
In LKR ‘000s
2020
2019
Conventional life insurance fund
Balance as at 1 January
 35,448,033 
 30,557,320 
Increase in life insurance fund before surplus transfer to share holders
 7,061,324 
 5,940,278 
Transfer to shareholders
 (825,000)
 (1,000,000)
Effect of taxation on surplus/bonus transferred to policyholders
 51,059 
 (24,631)
Net change in unclaimed benefits
 91,531 
 (24,934)
Balance as at 31 December 
 41,826,947 
 35,448,033 
Non unit fund of linked life insurance contracts
Balance as at 1 January
 41,718 
 42,561 
Increase in non unit fund of linked life insurance before surplus transfer to share holders
 10,416 
 6,841 
Transfer to shareholders
 - 
 - 
Net change in unclaimed benefits
 2,576 
 (7,684)
Balance as at 31 December 
 54,710 
 41,718 
 41,881,657 
 35,489,751 
36.	
Insurance contract liabilities (Contd.)

269
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
Liability adequacy test (LAT) - Life insurance contract liabilities
As at 31 December 2020, liability adequacy test was performed by the 
appointed actuary Mr. Vivek Jalan FIA, FIAI of Willis Towers Watson India 
Private Limited who concluded that, the liability value is sufficient to 
meet future benefits and expenses. Hence, no provision was required to 
be made for any premium deficiency.
36.2 	 Change in life insurance contract liabilities 
The results of Union Assurance PLC’s (UA) life business segment is 
consolidated into the Group’s Consolidated Income Statement. The 
change in life insurance contract liabilities represents the transfer to 
the Life Fund, the difference between all income and expenditure 
attributable to life policy holders during the year. 
Summarised financial information
For the year ended 31 March
2021
2020
In LKR '000s
Total Revenue
 13,221,167 
 11,120,928
Cost of sales
 (6,168,801)
 (5,290,054)
Gross profit
 7,052,366 
5,830,874
Operating expenses including distribution and administration expenses
 (4,192,748)
 (3,681,724)
Net finance income
 5,023,000 
 4,523,686 
Profit attributable to shareholders of UA
 (850,926)
 (1,055,405)
Change in insurance contract liabilities
 7,031,692 
 5,617,431 
Union Assurance PLC follows a risk mitigation approach for inherent uncertainty regarding the occurrence, amount or timing of insurance contract 
liabilities.
Following table describs headline risks and responses.
Headline risk
Risk response
Investment return on underlying items failing below guaranteed minimum 
rates
Management discretion to determine amount and timing of policy 
holders bonuses (within limits)
Insufficient fees to cover cost of guarantees and expenses
Hedging programme
Differences in duration and yield of assets and liabilities
• Matching of assets and liabilities cash flows
• Investing in investment grade assets
Policy holder behavioural risk
Surrender penalty
37. 	
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 
37.1 	 Movement 
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2021
2020
2021
2020
In LKR '000s
At the beginning of the year
 56,131,366 
 24,481,117 
 605,747 
 852,882 
Cash movement
Loans obtained
 71,729,856 
 33,268,809 
43,889,749 
 - 
Repayments
(6,753,731)
 (5,102,445)
 (540,608)
 (300,468)
Non cash movement
Accrued Interest
 1,138,330 
 400,712 
 428,650 
-
Exchange rate adjustments
6,227,292
 3,083,173 
 2,803,320 
 53,333 
At the end of the year
 128,473,113 
 56,131,366 
 47,186,858 
 605,747 
Repayable within one year
 9,507,473 
 5,206,020 
 3,007,368 
 316,042 
Repayable after one year
 118,965,640 
 50,925,346 
 44,179,490 
 289,705 
 128,473,113 
 56,131,366 
 47,186,858 
 605,747 

270   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
37.2 	 Security and repayment terms
As at 31 March
Nominal 
Interest rate
Repayment terms
Carrying Value of Collaterals
2021
In LKR ‘000s
2020
In LKR ‘000s
Company
John Keells Holdings 
PLC
1 month LIBOR 
plus margin 
36 monthly installments 
commencing from March 2019
-
306,013
 605,747 
Fixed rate
28 quarterly installments 
commencing from December 2020
-
5,876,085 
-
Fixed rate
60 monthly installments 
commencing from December 2020
-
 5,925,000 
-
6-month LIBOR 
plus margin
12 semi annual installments 
commencing from December 2024 
after 4 years grace period
 - 
35,079,760 
-
 47,186,858
 605,747
Group companies
Asian Hotels & 
Properties PLC
Fixed rate
17 monthly installments 
commencing from May 2021 after 
6 months grace period
-
 50,000
-
Beruwala Holiday 
Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
1 month LIBOR 
plus margin
7 quarterly installments 
commencing from June 2021
LKR 3.9 Bn primary floating 
mortgage bond over hotel property.
 218,677 
 198,350 
Fixed rate
3 monthly installments 
commencing from June 2021
-
 47,240 
-
Fixed rate
3 monthly installments 
commencing from June 2021 after 
a grace period of 9 months
Letter of Comfort from John Keells 
Holdings PLC
 25,753
-
Ceylon Holiday Resort 
Ltd
AWPLR plus 
margin  
77 monthly installments after a 
grace period of 18 months from 
the date of first disbursement
LKR 2.45Bn Corporate guarantee 
from John Keells Hotels PLC 
 - 
 2,092,297 
Fixed for the first 
5 years and 1 
month AWPLR 
plus margin for 
the next 5 years 
102 monthly installments 
commencing from August 2022 
after 18 months grace period
LKR 3.0Bn Corporate Guarantee from 
John Keells Hotels PLC 
 2,838,352 
 - 
Cinnamon Hotel 
Management Ltd 
Fixed rate
15 monthly installments 
commencing from April 2021
-
 24,692 
 - 
Fantasea World Inv 
(Pte) Ltd
3 months LIBOR 
plus margin
22 quarterly installments 
commencing from December 2018 
after 18 months grace period 
Leasehold rights of Island of 
Cinnamon Hakuraa Huraa. 
3,817,658
 3,678,725
3 months LIBOR 
plus margin
12 Monthly installments 
commencing from March 2021
146,508
-
Habarana Walk Inn Ltd
Fixed rate
18 monthly installments 
commencing from June 2021 after 
6 months grace period
LKR 12.7Mn Corporate Guarantee 
from John Keells Hotels PLC and 
Letter of Comfort from John Keells 
Holdings PLC
 12,680
-
Habarana Lodge Ltd
1 month LIBOR 
plus margin
8  quarterly installments 
commencing from September 
2021
-
 37,939 
 35,058 
Fixed rate
18 monthly installments 
commencing from June 2021 after 
6 months grace period
LKR 37.9Mn Corporate Guarantee 
from John Keells Hotels PLC and 
Letter of Comfort from John Keells 
Holdings PLC 
 38,453
-
37. 	
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings (Contd.) 

271
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
As at 31 March
Nominal 
Interest rate
Repayment terms
Carrying Value of Collaterals
2021
In LKR ‘000s
2020
In LKR ‘000s
Hikkaduwa Holiday 
Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
1 month LIBOR 
plus margin
4 quarterly installments 
commencing from June 2021
-
 160,304 
 148,131 
Fixed rate
18 monthly installments 
commencing from June 2021 after 
6 months grace period
LKR 18.9Mn Corporate Guarantee 
from John Keells Hotels PLC and 
Letter of Comfort from John Keells 
Holdings PLC 
 19,148 
- 
Fixed rate
72 monthly installments 
commencing from January 2022 
after 12 months grace period
LKR 540Mn Corporate Guarantee 
from John Keells Hotels PLC  
 193,311
-
John Keells Properties 
Ja-Ela (Pvt) Ltd
1 month COF plus 
margin
60 monthly installments 
commencing from December 2016
General terms and conditions for 
LKR 450 Mn signed relating to the 
term loan. 
 172,824 
 262,533
John Keells 
Information 
Technology (Pvt) 
Ltd
Fixed rate
18 monthly installments 
commencing from April 2021
 - 
 20,000 
-
John Keells Logistics 
(Pvt) Ltd
Fixed rate
24 monthly installments 
commencing from April 2021
 - 
 20,000 
-
John Keells Hotels PLC
Fixed rate
15 monthly installments 
commencing from June 2021 after 
9 months grace period
Letter of undertaking from John 
Keells Hotels PLC 
 4,372 
-
Fixed for the first 
3 years and 1 
month AWPLR 
plus margin for 
the next 4 years
10 bi-annual installments 
commencing from June 2023 after 
24 months grace period
Letter of Comfort from John Keells 
Holdings PLC 
 1,018,780
-
Jaykay Marketing 
Services (Pvt) Ltd
Fixed rate
20 quarterly installments  
commencing from March 2021
-
 3,800,000 
-
Fixed rate
20 quarterly installments  
commencing from May 2021
 - 
 2,000,000
Keells Food Products 
PLC
1 month COF plus 
margin
60 monthly installments 
commencing from February 2019
 - 
 129,124 
 165,336
Kandy walk Inn Ltd
Fixed rate
18 monthly installments 
commencing from June 2021 after 
6 months grace period
LKR 26.6Mn Corporate Guarantee 
from John Keells Hotels PLC and 
Letter of Comfort from John Keells 
Holdings PLC 
 26,965
-
Mack Air Pvt Ltd
Fixed rate
15 monthly installments 
commencing after 9 months grace 
period
-
 15,000
-
Mack International 
Freight (Pvt) Ltd
Fixed rate
15 monthly installments 
commencing after 9 months grace 
period
-
 10,000 
-
Rajawella Holdings Ltd
1 month COF plus 
margin
60 monthly installments 
commencing from April 2020 after 
1 year grace period
-
 374,000
350,000
The Colombo Ice 
Company (Pvt) Ltd
1 month COF plus 
margin
60 monthly installments 
commencing from March 2017 
after 1 year grace period 
LKR 1.17 Bn Corporate guarantee 
from Ceylon Cold Stores PLC 
 1,041,667
 1,458,333
Trans Asia Hotels PLC
1 month LIBOR 
plus margin
5 quarterly installments 
commencing from March 2021
-
 187,781
 177,774
Travel Club (Pte) Ltd
1 months LIBOR 
plus margin
12 quarterly installments 
commencing from September 
2017
-
-
 63,208

272   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
38.1 	 Employee benefit liabilities
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
Note
2021
2020
2021
2020
In LKR '000s
Employee defined benefit plan - gratuity
 38.2 
 2,330,114 
 2,073,046 
 123,194 
 107,318 
Other long term employee benefit
 38.3 
 483,892 
 270,865 
 108,175 
 64,132 
At the end of the year
 2,814,006 
 2,343,911 
 231,369 
 171,450 
38. 	
Employee benefit liabilities
Accounting Policy
Employee contribution plans - EPF/ETF
Employees are eligible for Employees’ Provident Fund contributions 
and Employees’ Trust Fund contributions in line with respective statutes 
and regulations. The companies contribute the defined percentages of 
gross emoluments of employees to an approved Employees’ Provident 
Fund and to the Employees’ Trust Fund respectively, which are externally 
funded.
Employee defined benefit plan - gratuity
The liability recognised in the statement of financial position is the 
present value of the defined benefit obligation as at the reporting date 
using the projected unit credit method. Any actuarial gains or losses 
arising are recognised immediately in other comprehensive income.
Under the Payment of Gratuity Act No. 12 of 1983, the liability to an 
employee arises only on completion of 5 years of continued service. The 
obligation is not externally funded.
Other long term employee benefit
A new Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTI) has been launched for senior 
employees of the Group. The overall incentive will be paid in cash as a 
lump sum payment upon achievement of key performance indicators 
linked to the five year strategic plan in place.
The Liability recognised in respect other long term employee benefits 
are measured as the present value of the estimated future cash outflows 
expected to be made by the Group in relation to the performance and 
the services of the relevant employees, up to the reporting date. 	
	
	
	
	
	
As at 31 March
Nominal 
Interest rate
Repayment terms
Carrying Value of Collaterals
2021
In LKR ‘000s
2020
In LKR ‘000s
Tranquility (Pte) Ltd
3 months LIBOR 
plus margin
16 quarterly installments 
commencing from September 
2019 after 12 months grace period
Leasehold right on the Island of 
Kanuoiy Huraa in Kaafu (Male') 
 5,591,934 
 5,347,425
3 months LIBOR 
based plus margin
12 monthly installments 
commencing from March 2021
-
 177,866
-
Trinco Holiday Resorts 
(Pvt) Ltd
AWPLR minus 
margin
13 monthly installments 
commencing from April 2021 after 
12 months grace period
Letter of comfort from John Keells 
Hotels PLC
 94,238 
 91,000
1 month LIBOR 
plus margin
8 quarterly installments 
commencing from September 
2021
-
 63,152 
 39,480
Waterfront Properties 
(Pvt) Ltd
1 month LIBOR 
plus margin
13 quarterly installments 
commencing from September 
2019
Freehold and leasehold land of LKR 
11.4 Bn.
 58,505,919
 41,044,683
Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd
1 month LIBOR 
plus margin
8 quarterly installments 
commencing from September 
2021
-
 28,463
 26,300
Fixed rate
18 monthly installments 
commencing from June 2021 after 
6 months grace period
LKR 21.4Mn Corporate Guarantee 
from John Keells Hotels PLC and 
Letter of Comfort from John Keells 
Holdings PLC 
 21,712
-
Whittal Boustead 
Travel Ltd
364-days Treasury 
Bills rate plus 
margin
24 monthly installments 
commencing from March 2021 
after a 6 months grace period
-
 101,400
 95,547
Walkers Tours Ltd
Fixed rate
23 monthly installment 
commencing from September 
2021 after 6 months grace period
-
 250,342
 251,439
 128,473,113
 56,131,366
37. 	
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings (Contd.) 
37.2 	 Security and repayment terms (Contd.)

273
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
38.2 	 Employee defined benefit plan - gratuity
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2021
2020
2021
2020
In LKR '000s
At the beginning of the year
 2,073,046 
 1,990,197 
 107,318 
 135,630 
Current service cost
 233,577 
 235,405 
 9,904 
 8,254 
Transfers
 - 
 - 
 (1,137)
 (21,640)
Interest cost on benefit obligation
 204,805 
 195,095 
 11,805 
 14,919 
Payments
 (276,410)
 (238,597)
 (6,831)
 (22,005)
(Gain)/Loss arising from changes in assumptions 
 95,096 
 (109,054)
 2,135 
 (7,840)
At the end of the year
 2,330,114 
 2,073,046 
 123,194 
 107,318 
The expenses are recognised in the income statement in the following line 
items;
	 Cost of sales
 218,109 
 205,689 
 2,895 
 2,171 
	 Selling and distribution expenses
 44,986 
 25,895 
-
 - 
	 Administrative expenses
 175,287 
 198,916 
 18,814 
 21,002 
 438,382 
 430,500 
 21,709 
 23,173 
38.3 	 Other long term employee benefits
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2021
2020
2021
2020
In LKR '000s
At the beginning of the year
 270,865 
 95,629 
 64,132 
 21,379 
Current service cost
 192,058 
 161,640 
37,701
 40,829 
Interest cost
 20,969 
 13,596 
6,342
 1,924 
At the end of the year
 483,892 
 270,865 
 108,175 
 64,132 
Accounting judgements , estimates and assumptions 
Employee benefit liability - gratuity
The employee benefit liability of the Group is based on the actuarial valuation carried out by Independent actuarial specialists. The actuarial valuations 
involve making assumptions about discount rates and future salary increases. The complexity of the valuation, the underlying assumptions and its long 
term nature, the defined benefit obligation is highly sensitive to changes in these assumptions. All assumptions are reviewed at each reporting date. 
The principal assumptions used in determining the cost of employee benefits were:
As at 31 March
2021
2020
Discount rate
7.00% - 9.00%
10.00% - 11.00%
Future salary increases
6.00% - 8.00%
6.00% - 8.00%
38.4 	 Sensitivity of assumptions used
A percentage change in the assumptions would have the following effects to employee defined benefit plan - gratuity.
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2021
2020
2021
2020
Discount rate:
	 1% Increase
 (100,137)
 (119,625)
 (6,955)
 (4,392)
	 1% Decrease
 110,514 
 78,005 
 7,673 
4,738
Salary Increment rate:
	 1% Increase
 111,402 
 85,654 
 7,867 
5,008
	 1% Decrease
 (102,399)
 (80,440)
 (7,249)
 (4,714)

274   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
38. 	
Employee benefit liabilities (Contd.)
38.5 	 Maturity analysis of the payments 
The following payments are expected on employee benefit plan - gratuity in future years.
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2021
2020
2021
2020
In LKR '000s
Within the next 12 months
 218,929 
 255,016 
44
 1,725 
Between 1 and 2 years
 222,511 
 261,187 
 12,002 
 10,501 
Between 2 and 5 years
 996,578 
 876,112 
 21,006 
 28,902 
Between 5 and 10 years
 667,551 
 618,574 
 73,659 
 66,190 
Beyond 10 years
 224,545 
 62,157 
 16,483 
 - 
Total expected payments
 2,330,114 
 2,073,046 
123,194
 107,318 
Weighted average duration (years) of defined benefit obligation
7.45
7.95
12.26
6.81
39. 	
Non current financial liabilities
Accounting policy
Group classifies all financial non current liabilities under non current financial liabilities which include forward contract liabilities and construction 
retention liabilites of the Waterfront integrated resort project.
As at 31 March
2021
2020
In LKR '000s
Forward contract liability
 413,466 
 544,646 
Construction retention 
 3,247,486 
 3,075,217 
 3,660,952 
 3,619,863 
40. 	
Other non current liabilities
Accounting policy
Group classifies all non financial non current liabilities under other non current liabilities which include non refundable advances and deposits.
As at 31 March
2021
2020
In LKR '000s
Advances received
 - 
 3,088,730 
Contract liabilities
 19,386,170 
 9,407,028 
Deposits
 101,057 
 117,947 
Other deferred liabilities
 58,428 
 204 
 19,545,655 
 12,613,909 
41. 	
Trade and other payables
Accounting policy 
Trade payables are the aggregate amount of obligations to pay for goods or services, that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business. Trade 
payables are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year.
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2021
2020
2021
2020
In LKR '000s
Trade and other payables
 34,037,021 
 22,849,584 
 372,711 
 423,393 
Contract Liabilities
 112,665 
 72,868 
 - 
 - 
Reinsurance payables
 670,785 
453,444
 - 
 - 
Advances and deposits
 467,229 
 505,583 
 - 
 - 
 35,287,700 
 23,881,479 
 372,711 
 423,393 
Trade and other payables are non-interest bearing and settled within one year. Reinsurance payables are settled within one year. For further explanation 
on the Group’s liquidity risk management process refer Note 11.2.2.

275
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
42. 	
Short term borrowings
Accounting policy 
Short term borrowings are the interest bearing borrowings of the Group which fall due within 12 months from the end of the financial year. These are 
obtained for working capital requirements. 
GROUP
As at 31 March
2021
2020
In LKR '000s
Bank borrowings
 6,903,737 
 5,803,771 
 6,903,737 
 5,803,771 
43. 	
Other current liabilities 
Accounting policy
Group classifies all non financial current liabilities under other current liabilities.
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2021
2020
2021
2020
In LKR '000s
Non refundable deposits
 518,057 
588,252
 - 
 2,566 
Contract liabilities
 758,085 
877,378
 - 
-
Other tax payables
 457,256 
 157,507 
 20,796 
 809 
 1,733,398 
 1,623,137 
 20,796 
 3,375 
44. 	
Related party transactions
Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties
The Group and the Company carried out transactions in the ordinary 
course of business with the following related entities. The list of Directors 
at each of the subsidiaries, joint venture and associate companies 
have been disclosed in the Group Directory under the Supplementary 
Information section of the Annual Report.
Governance structure, nature of the entity’s relationships, principal place 
of business and the country of incorporation have been disclosed in the 
“Report of the Related Party Transaction Review Committee" and Group 
directory.
Transactions with related parties are carried out in the ordinary course 
of business. Outstanding current account balances at year end are 
unsecured, interest free and settlement occurs in cash.
The sales to & purchases from related parties are made on terms 
equivalent to those that prevail in arm's length transactions.
Non-recurrent related party transactions
There were no non-recurrent related party transactions which in 
aggregate value exceeds 10% of the equity or 5% of the total assets 
whichever is lower of the company as per 31 March 2020 audited 
financial statements, which required additional disclosures in the 
2020/21 Annual Report under Colombo Stock Exchange listing Rule 
9.3.2 and Code of Best Practices on Related Party Transactions under the 
Securities and Exchange Commission Directive issued under Section 
13(c) of the Securities and Exchange Commission Act.
Recurrent related party transactions,
There were no recurrent related party transactions which in aggregate 
value exceeds 10% of the consolidated revenue of the Group as per 31 
March 2020 audited financial Statements, which required additional 
disclosures in the 2020/21 Annual Report under Colombo Stock 
Exchange listing Rule 9.3.2 and Code of Best Practices on Related Party 
Transactions under the Securities and Exchange Commission Directive 
issued under Section 13(c) of the Securities and Exchange Commission 
Act.
44.1 	 Amounts due from related parties
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
Note
2021
2020
2021
2020
In LKR '000s
Subsidiaries
44.5
 - 
 - 
 1,379,839 
 353,184 
Equity accounted investees
 123,553 
 389,766 
 85,977 
 328,433 
Key management personnel 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 123,553 
 389,766 
 1,465,816 
 681,617 

276   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
44. 	
Related party transactions (Contd.)
44.2 	 Amounts due to related parties
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
Note
2021
2020
2021
2020
In LKR '000s
Subsidiaries
44.6
 - 
 - 
 13,181 
 777 
Equity accounted investees
 1,385 
 2,073 
 - 
 - 
Key management personnel 
-
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,385 
 2,073 
 13,181 
 777 
44.3 	 Transactions with related parties
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
Note
2021
2020
2021
2020
In LKR '000s
Subsidiaries
 	 Purchases of goods
-
 - 
 5,996 
 2,470 
 	 Rendering of services
 44.5 
-
 - 
 1,307,624 
 1,122,614 
 	 Receiving of services
 44.6 
-
 - 
 428,543 
 123,341 
 	 Rent paid
-
 - 
 31,641 
 40,095 
 	 Dividend received
-
 - 
 3,959,814 
 4,137,917 
Equity accounted investees
 	 Sale of goods
 8,381 
12,405
 - 
 - 
 	 Rendering of services
 44.5 
 482,220 
474,648
 338,096 
 334,672 
 	 Receiving of services
 163,712 
231,860
-
269
 	 Interest received
 44.4 
 67,987 
 75,859 
10,721
 16,512 
 	 Interest paid
 44.4 
 13,730 
 5,915 
2 
 - 
 	 Dividend received
-
-
 4,386,446 
 2,229,693 
Key management personnel (KMP)
 	 Sale of goods
-
 - 
-
 - 
Close family members of KMP
 	 Sale of goods
-
 - 
-
 - 
Companies controlled / jointly controlled / significantly 
	 Influenced by KMP and their close family members
 	 Sale of goods
-
 - 
-
 - 
Post employment benefit plan
 	 Contributions to the provident fund
 261,102
 269,690 
 50,407
 53,621 
44.4 	 Transactions with related parties - Associates
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
2021
2020
2021
2020
In LKR '000s
Nations Trust Bank PLC
Interest received 
 67,987 
 75,859 
10,721
 16,512 
Interest paid
 13,730 
 5,915 
2
 - 
The Group held interest bearing deposits of LKR 1,023 Mn (2020 - LKR 1,370 Mn) at Nations Trust Bank PLC as at 31 March 2021.

277
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
44.5 	 Related party transactions and balances 
COMPANY
Rendering of services
Amounts due from
For the year ended/As at 31 March 
In LKR ‘000s
2021
2020
2021
2020
Subsidiaries
Asian Hotels and Properties PLC
 55,255 
 62,723 
 9,776 
 6,961 
Beruwala Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
 12,350 
 12,254 
 1,235 
 4,135 
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC
 162,226 
 94,178 
 208,835 
 24,902 
Ceylon Holiday Resorts Ltd
 12,968 
 8,181 
 1,268 
 2,189 
Cinnamon Hotel Management Services Ltd
 56,568 
 59,284 
 6,010 
 11,238 
Fantasea World Investments (Pvt) Ltd
 5,809 
 3,360 
 854 
 574 
Habarana Lodge Ltd
 10,236 
 10,490 
 1,041 
 1,832 
Habarana Walk Inn Ltd
 8,395 
 8,473 
 3,150 
 1,464 
Hikkaduwa Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
 10,206 
 10,762 
 999 
 2,192 
InfoMate (Pvt) Ltd
 48,792 
 43,478 
 3,474 
 6,938 
JayKay Marketing Services (Pvt) Ltd
 363,285 
 201,434 
 63,912 
 48,252 
John Keells Information Technologies (Pvt) Ltd 
 76,727 
 77,090 
 63,245 
 112,203 
John Keells International (Pvt) Ltd
 5,627 
 6,030 
 3,158 
 - 
John Keells Logistics (Pvt) Ltd
 36,455 
 43,046 
 8,264 
 10,777 
John Keells Maldivian Resorts (Pte) Ltd
 3,983 
 4,044 
 913 
 588 
John Keells Office Automation (Pvt) Ltd
 33,544 
 33,933 
 19,412 
 11,996 
John Keells PLC
 16,560 
 18,578 
 1,080 
 382 
John Keells Stock Brokers (Pvt) Ltd
 9,917 
 9,678 
 - 
 945 
John Keells Teas Ltd 
 2,407 
 1,550 
 270 
 789 
John Keells Warehousing (Pvt) Ltd
 3,323 
 2,331 
 324 
 208 
Kandy Walk Inn Ltd
 10,065 
 9,250 
 1,048 
 851 
Keells Consultants (Pvt) Ltd
 4,198 
 3,118 
 13,109 
 777 
Keells Food Products PLC
 38,554 
 37,764 
 3,947 
 4,342 
Lanka Marine Services Ltd
 13,814 
 14,783 
 2,553 
 1,644 
Mack Air (Pvt) Ltd
 12,771 
 17,582 
 356 
 1,445 
Mackinnon Keells Ltd
 1,829 
 1,488 
 - 
 261 
Mackinnons Travels (Pvt) Ltd
 11,290 
 13,370 
 878 
 2,247 
Rajawella Holdings Ltd
 5,772 
 5,359 
 1,144 
 2,763 
Tea Small Holder Factories PLC
 2,224 
 2,466 
 236 
 396 
The Colombo Ice Company (Pvt) Ltd
 11,702 
 10,235 
 1,126 
 2,765 
Tranquility (Pte) Ltd
 12,226 
 9,892 
 1,969 
 1,753 
Trans Asia Hotels PLC
 38,298 
 41,908 
 - 
 4,072 
Travel Club (Pvt) Ltd
 5,349 
 5,435 
 867 
 503 
Trinco Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
 8,531 
 7,810 
 880 
 1,182 
Union Assurance PLC
 97,810 
 74,052 
 944,644 
 38,674 
Walkers Tours Ltd
 37,800 
 49,866 
 3,023 
 9,008 
Waterfront properties (Pvt) Ltd
 - 
 53,453 
 - 
 14,854 
Whittall Boustead (Pvt) Ltd
 23,230 
 23,252 
 1,493 
 5,082 
Whittall Boustead (Travel) Ltd
 8,438 
 10,284 
 1,054 
 4,020 
Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd
 8,774 
 9,922
 904 
 2,612
Other subsidiaries
 20,316 
10,428
 3,388 
5,368
 1,307,624 
 1,122,614 
 1,379,839 
 353,184

278   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
COMPANY
Rendering of services
Amounts due from
For the year ended/As at 31 March 
In LKR ‘000s
2021
2020
2021
2020
Joint ventures
DHL Keells (Pvt) Ltd
 318,378 
 314,009 
 70,049 
158,292
Braybrooke Residential Properties (Pvt) Ltd
 651 
848
 1,479 
891
Sentinel Reality (Pvt) Ltd
 23 
 111 
 76 
 50 
Associates
Fairfirst Insurance Ltd
 37 
 - 
 400 
 12,635 
Nations Trust Bank PLC
 - 
 - 
 1,401 
 149,243 
Saffron Aviation (Pvt) Ltd
 3,705 
 4,167 
 334 
 1,219 
Sancity Hotels and Properties Ltd
 9,679 
 9,897 
 5,813 
 2,643 
South Asia Gateway Terminals ( Pvt ) Ltd
 5,623 
 5,640 
 6,425 
 3,460 
 338,096 
 334,672 
 85,977 
 328,433 
44.6 	 Related party transactions and balances 
COMPANY
Receiving of services
Amounts due to
For the year ended/As at 31 March 
In LKR ‘000s
2021
2020
2021
2021
Subsidiaries
Asian Hotels and Properties PLC
 3,033 
 4,901 
 - 
 - 
InfoMate (Pvt) Ltd
 5,581 
 5,690 
 - 
 - 
Trans Asia Hotels PLC
 25,710 
 3,275 
 1,632 
 - 
John Keells Information Technologies (Pvt) Ltd 
 377,163 
 90,494 
 - 
 - 
Whittall Boustead (Pvt) Ltd
 9,819 
 7,968 
 - 
 - 
Other subsidiaries
 7,237 
 11,013 
 11,549 
 777 
 428,543 
 123,341 
 13,181 
 777 
Joint ventures
DHL Keells (Pvt) Ltd
-
 227 
-
 - 
Associates
Sancity Hotels and Properties Ltd
-
 42 
-
 - 
-
 269 
-
 - 
44. 	
Related party transactions (Contd.)
44.5 	 Related party transactions and balances (Contd.)

279
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
44.7 	 Compensation of key management personnel
Key management personnel include members of the Board of Directors of John Keells Holdings PLC and its subsidiary companies.
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
2021
2020
2021
2020
In LKR '000s
Short-term employee benefits
381,202
 405,481 
 115,268 
 136,706 
Post employment benefits
7,459
 7,549 
 2,541 
 1,879 
Other long-term benefits
-
 - 
 - 
 - 
Termination benefits
-
 - 
 - 
 - 
Share based payments
91,142
 80,634 
 29,275 
 30,363 
479,803
 493,664 
 147,084 
 168,948 
Directors’ interest in the employee share option plan of the Company
As at 31 March 2021, the executive members of the Board of Directors held options to purchase ordinary shares under the employee share option plan 
as follows;
COMPANY
2021
2020
Expiry date
Adjusted exercise
price 
LKR
Number of shares
outstanding at 
the end of period
Number of shares
exercisable at the
end of period
Number of shares
outstanding at the
end of period
Number of shares 
exercisable at the 
end of period
24.06.2020
 - 
 - 
 - 
502,522
502,522
14.08.2021
 142.83 
 600,000 
 600,000 
600,000
450,000
02.07.2022
 173.25 
 725,000 
 543,750 
725,000
362,500
21.06.2023
 154.10 
 880,000 
 440,000 
880,000
220,000
30.06.2024
 136.97 
 880,000 
 220,000 
880,000
-
30.06.2025
 132.86 
 880,000 
 - 
-
-
No share options have been granted to the non-executive members of the Board of Directors under the employee share option plan.

280   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER DISCLOSURES
45. 	
Contingent liabilities
Accounting policy
Provisions, contingent assets and contingent liabilities 
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation 
(legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that an 
outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required 
to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the 
amount of the obligation. Where the Group expects some or all of a 
provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, 
the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when the 
reimbursement is virtually certain.
The expense relating to any provision is presented in the income 
statement net of any reimbursement.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are 
discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, where appropriate, 
the risks specific to the liability. Where discounting is used, the increase 
in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance 
cost. 
All contingent liabilities are disclosed as a note to the financial 
statements unless the outflow of resources is remote. A contingent 
liability recognised in a business combination is initially measured at its 
fair value. 
Subsequently, it is measured at the higher of: the amount that would 
be recognised in accordance with the general guidance for provisions 
above (LKAS 37) or the amount initially recognised less, when 
appropriate, cumulative amortisation recognised in accordance with 
the guidance for revenue recognition (SLFRS 15). Contingent assets are 
disclosed, where inflow of economic benefit is probable. 
The contingent liability of the Company and the Group as at 31 March 
2021, relates to the following; 
John Keells Holdings PLC (JKH) 
The contingent liability of the Company as at 31 March 2021, relates to 
the following:
Income tax assessment relating to year of assessment 2006/07.
The Company has lodged appeals against the assessment and is 
contesting it under appellate procedure.
Having discussed with independent legal and tax experts and based 
on information available, the contingent liability as at 31 March 2021, is 
estimated at LKR. 54 Mn.
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC (CCS) 
The contingent liability of CCS as at 31 March 2021, relates to the 
Following: 
Income tax assessments relating to years of assessment 2011/12 to 
2013/2014. The company has lodged appeals against the assessments 
and is contesting these under appellate procedure.
Having discussed with independent legal and tax experts and based on 
the information available, the contingent liability as at 31 March 2021 is 
estimated at Rs.36.5 Mn.
Kandy Walk Inn Ltd (KWIL) 
The contingent liability of KWIL as at 31 March 2021, relates to the 
following:
Income tax assessment relating to year of assessment 2016/17. The 
company has lodged appeals against the assessments and is contesting 
these under appellate procedure.
Having discussed with independent legal and tax experts and based on 
the information available, the contingent liability as at 31 March 2021 is 
estimated at LKR. 5.4 Mn.
Lanka Marine Services (Pvt) Ltd (LMS) 
The contingent liability of LMS as at 31 March 2021, relates to the 
following:	
Assessment of Turnover tax levied by the Western Provincial Council for 
the period from 1 January 2003 to 31 December 2004. The company has 
lodged appeals against the assessment and is contesting these under 
appellate procedure.
Income tax assessment relating to years of assessment from 2001/02 to 
2017/18. The company has lodged appeals against the assessments and 
is contesting these under the appellate procedure. 
Apart from the procedural grounds of appeal, the substantive issue 
under dispute is the position taken by the company that the sale of 
bunker to foreign ships is an export and is entitled to the exemptions/
concessions attached thereto.
Having discussed with independent legal and tax experts and based 
on information available, the contingent liability as at 31 March 2021, is 
estimated at LKR. 1,233 Mn.
Mackinnons Travels (Pvt) Ltd (MTL
The contingent liability of MTL as at 31 March 2021, relates to the 
following;
Value Added Tax assessments relating to the periods from 1 April 2009 to 
31 March 2011 and 1 January 2017 to 31 July 2018.  
The company has lodged appeals against the assessments and is 
contesting these under appellate procedure.
Having discussed with independent legal and tax experts and based 
on information available, the contingent liability as at 31 March 2021 is 
estimated at LKR. 83 Mn.
Trans Asia Hotels PLC (TAH)
The contingent liability of TAH as at 31 March 2021, relates to the 
following:
Income tax assessments relating to years of assessments 2012/13 to 
2017/2018. The company has lodged appeals against the assessments 
and is contesting these under appellate procedure.

281
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
Having discussed with independent legal and tax experts and based on 
the information available, the contingent liability as at 31 March 2021 is 
estimated at LKR. 157.6 Mn.
Walkers Tours Ltd (WTL)
The contingent liability of WTL as at 31 March 2021, relates to the 
following:
Economic Service Charge assessment relating to the year of assessment 
2014/15. The company has lodged an appeal against the assessment 
and is contesting it under appellate procedure.
Having discussed with independent legal and tax experts and based on 
the information available, the contingent liability as at 31 March 2021, is 
estimated at LKR. 10.5 Mn.
Union Assurance PLC (UA)
The contingent liability of UA PLC as at 31 March 2021, relates to the 
following;	
Value Added Tax assessments relating to the periods from 1 April 2016 to 
31 December 2017.
The company has lodged appeals against the assessments and is 
contesting these under appellate procedure. Having discussed with 
independent legal and tax experts and based on information available, 
the contingent liability as at 31 March 2021, is estimated at LKR. 13.9 Mn.
Financial Services VAT and NBT assessments relating to the periods from 
1 January 2016 to 31 December 2017.
The company has lodged appeals against the assessments and is 
contesting these under appellate procedure. Having discussed with 
independent legal and tax experts and based on information available, 
the contingent liability as at 31 March 2021, is estimated at LKR. 405 Mn.
Income Tax Assessments received for years of assessments 2010/11, 
2011/12, 2012/13, 2013/14, 2014/15, 2015/16,2016/17 and 2017/18.  
The assessments were raised for the above years of assessments by 
making life insurance income liable to pay income taxes of LKR. 13 Mn, 
LKR. 132 Mn, LKR. 411 Mn, LKR. 175 Mn, LKR. 887 Mn, LKR. 832 Mn, Rs. 
472 Mn and LKR 749 Mn respectively. The company has lodged valid 
appeals against the assessments raised and is contesting these under 
the appellate procedure.
Having discussed with independent legal and tax experts and based on 
information available, the Directors are of the view that the company has 
followed due process and acted in accordance with the prevailing laws 
in its tax submissions for years of assessment from 2010/11 to 2017/18 
and accordingly have concluded that the above assessments have no 
rationale or basis in law.
46. 	
Capital and other commitments
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2021
2020
2021
2020
In LKR '000s
Capital commitments approved but not provided for
 30,438,691
 47,751,815 
-
 - 
Guarantees
1,877,615
 1,843,256 
   3,117,000 
 117,000 
32,316,306
 49,595,071 
   3,117,000 
 117,000 
47. 	
Assets pledged
Assets pledged for facilities obtained are given in Note 37.2 to the financial statements. 

282   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
48. 	
Events after the reporting period
Final dividend
The Board of Directors of the Company has declared a final dividend 
of LKR 0.50 per share for the financial year ended 31 March 2021. 
As required by section 56 (2) of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, 
the Board of Directors has confirmed that the Company satisfies the 
solvency test in accordance with section 57 of the Companies Act No.07 
of 2007, and has obtained a certificate from auditors, prior to declaring a 
final dividend which is to be paid on or before 25 June 2021.
In accordance with LKAS 10, Events after the reporting period, the 
final dividend has not been recognised as a liability in the financial 
statements as at 31 March 2021.

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
EVOLVING
284  History of John Keells Group    285  Decade at a Glance    286  Economic Value Statement 
288  Indicative US Dollar Financial Statements    290  Group Real Estate Portfolio 
292  Glossary    293  Independent Assurance Statement on Non-Financial Reporting 
296  Group Directory    302  GRI - Disclosure 207-4    303  GRI Content Index

284   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
HISTORY OF THE JOHN KEELLS GROUP
1870-1970
1870 – Two English brothers, George and 
Edwin John set up E. John & Co, a firm of 
produce and exchange brokers.
1948 –Merged with two other London based 
tea brokers, thereby evolving into a private 
liability company by the name of E. John, 
Thompson, White & Company Ltd.
1960 – Amalgamated with Keell and Waldock 
Ltd, another long-established produce, share 
and freight broking company. The company 
changed its name to John Keell Thompson 
White Ltd.
1971-1990
1973 – Acquired Walkers Tours and Travels 
(Ceylon) Ltd, a leading inbound tour operator.
1974 – The firm became a Rupee quoted 
public company with its name changed to 
John Keells Ltd.
1986 – A newly incorporated John Keells 
Holdings (JKH) acquired a controlling stake in 
John Keells Limited and obtained a quotation 
on the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) amidst 
a heavily over-subscribed public share issue.
1991-2000
1991 – Acquired the Whittalls Group of 
Companies, thereby gaining control of Ceylon 
Cold Stores, Ceylon Holiday Resorts, and Union 
Assurance. The acquisition was one of the 
largest deals of the time.
1994 – JKH became the first Sri Lankan 
company to obtain a listing overseas, by way 
of issuing Global Depository Receipts (GDRs) 
on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange.
1996 – Velidhu Resort Hotel, an 80-roomed 
island resort in the Maldives, was acquired. 
This marked the Group’s first major investment 
overseas.
1999 – Nations Trust Bank (NTB) was 
established, through a joint venture with 
the International Finance Corporation (IFC) 
and Central Finance Co. Ltd. The South Asia 
Gateway Terminal (SAGT) commenced 
operations at the Port of Colombo.
2000 – JKH became the first Sri Lankan 
company to obtain the SL-AAA credit rating 
from Fitch Ratings. 
2001-2007
2003 – JKH acquired Asian Hotels and 
Properties, thereby gaining control of 40 per 
cent of the 5-star room capacity in Colombo.
2004 - John Keells Hotels Limited (KHL) 
was created as a holding company for all 
Group resorts. The Group’s CSR arm, the John 
Keells Social Responsibility Foundation was 
established as a non-profit organisation.
2005 - The Group launched its hotel brand 
'Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts'. JKH entered 
into an MoU to develop a third resort in the 
Maldives. Keells Plantations was divested, 
marking the Group’s exit from the ownership 
of plantations. JKH also entered into the BPO 
space through a joint venture with Raman Roy 
Associates.
2006 - The Group acquired a lease on Dhonveli 
Beach and Spa and Ellaidhoo Tourist Resort 
in the Maldives. The Group also increased its 
stake in SAGT by 8 per cent to 34 per cent. 
John Keells Holdings Ltd was renamed John 
Keells Holdings PLC.
2007 - Cinnamon Island Alidhoo commenced 
operations. The Group signed a long-term 
funding arrangement amounting to USD 75 
million with IFC.
2008-2010
2008 - JKH acquired a further 8.4 per cent in 
SAGT and also increased stakes in UA, CCS, JKL 
and KFPL
2009 - JKH’s market capitalisation surpassed 
USD 1 billion. 
2010 - The head lease of Alidhoo Island was 
divested while the head lease of Dhonveli 
Island was acquired for a period of 18 years. 
Construction of 'OnThree20', a 475-unit 
apartment complex in the heart of Colombo 
commenced. JKH increased its stake in UA to 
95.6 per cent.
2011-2014
2011/12 - 'The Emperor' apartment project at 
Crescat City, Colombo reached completion.
2012/13 - 'Cinnamon Bey', a 200-room five-star 
resort was launched. 'K-Zone', a 140,000 sq. ft. 
mall was opened in Ja-Ela, Colombo. Keells 
Food Products PLC and Union Assurance PLC 
successfully raised Rs. 1.2 billion and Rs. 720 
million respectively, via rights issues.
2013/14 - The market capitalisation of JKH 
exceeded USD 2 billion for the first time in the 
Group’s history. The 'Waterfront' integrated 
resort project, referred to as ‘Cinnamon Life’ at 
present, was announced to the public.
2014/15 - 'Cinnamon Red Colombo', the first 
lean luxury hotel in Sri Lanka, was launched. 
The ’OnThree20‘ residential development 
project was successfully completed. Union 
Assurance was segregated as per a regulatory 
directive, and the General Insurance segment 
was divested. 
2015 - Present
2015/16 - Waterfront Properties (Private) 
Limited raised the necessary debt funding 
for the 'Cinnamon Life' project, by way of the 
largest syndicated debt facility obtained by 
a local firm. A controlling stake in Rajawella 
Holdings Ltd (RHL) was acquired for Rs. 1.04 
billion. The Group raised Rs. 8 billion by 
converting 50 million warrants, '7th Sense' on 
Gregory’s Road, a high end, niche, residential 
development was completed.
2017/18 - JMSL launched a new store format 
for its 'Keells' supermarkets. NTB launched 
'FriMi', the country’s first digital bank, enabling 
the opening of a bank account through 
a smart device. JKH launched 'Tri-Zen', an 
891-apartment joint venture residential 
development.
2018/19 - The new ice cream factory was 
completed in Seethawaka. The 'Keells' brand 
was launched with the completion of a refit 
and rebranding across all supermarket outlets. 
2019/20 - CY2020 marked a significant 
milestone for the Group, given 150 years of 
being in business. OCTAVE, the Group's Data 
and Advanced Analytics Centre of Excellence 
was formally initiated as a division under JKH. 
The newly reconstructed 159-room ‘Cinnamon 
Bentota Beach’ commenced operations as 
the Group's flagship 'Cinnamon' hotel. Keells 
Food Products (KFP) commenced production 
of a pioneering Instant Rice, branded ‘Ezy rice’. 
Union Assurance (UA) underwent a brand 
change, centred around the theme, 'Your Life, 
Our Strength'.

285
Supplementary Information
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
DECADE AT A GLANCE
31 March
LKR Mn
2021
2020
2019
2018
2017
2016
2015
2014
2013
2012
OPERATING RESULTS
Group revenue
 127,676 
 138,956 
 135,456 
 121,215 
 106,273 
 93,710 
 91,852 
 86,706 
 85,408 
 75,924 
EBIT
7,931
 15,508 
 20,198 
 28,155 
 23,324 
 20,192 
 19,226 
 16,537 
 16,677 
 14,192 
Finance cost
 (4,669)
 (3,166)
 (2,722)
 (521)
 (436)
 (994)
 (668)
 (1,217)
 (1,081)
 (1,416)
 Share of results of equity accounted 
investees (net of tax) 
 4,159 
 4,466 
 4,727 
 3,596 
 3,303 
 2,781 
 2,778 
 3,089 
 3,440 
 2,809 
Profit before tax 
 5,445 
 12,403 
 18,616 
 27,634 
 22,888 
 19,198 
 18,557 
 15,320 
 15,595 
 12,778 
Tax expense
 (1,494)
 (2,662)
 (2,378)
 (4,515)
 (4,771)
 (3,406)
 (2,812)
 (2,362)
 (2,162)
 (1,827)
Profit after tax
 3,951 
 9,741 
 16,237 
 23,120 
 18,117 
 15,792 
 15,745 
 12,958 
 13,433 
 10,951 
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent
 4,772 
 9,414 
 15,254 
 21,021 
 16,275 
 14,070 
 14,348 
 11,721 
 12,113 
 9,689 
Non-controlling interests
 (821)
 327 
 983 
 2,099 
 1,842 
 1,722 
 1,397 
 1,237 
 1,320 
 1,262 
 3,951 
 9,741 
 16,237 
 23,120 
 18,117 
 15,792 
 15,745 
 12,958 
 13,433 
 10,951 
CAPITAL EMPLOYED
Stated capital
 63,102 
 62,881 
 62,806 
 62,802 
 62,790 
 58,702 
 50,703 
 49,749 
 26,480 
 25,111 
Capital reserves and other components 
of equity
 72,403 
 66,085 
 58,646 
 49,852 
 38,652 
 28,715 
 24,501 
 21,845 
 20,635 
 13,226 
Revenue reserves
 90,652 
 87,885 
82,834
 87,266 
 77,193 
 67,565 
 62,594 
 51,304 
 42,704 
 33,001 
 226,157 
 216,851 
 204,286 
 199,920 
 178,635 
 154,982 
 137,798 
 122,898 
 89,819 
 71,338 
Non-controlling interest
 16,830 
 26,872 
 26,072 
 24,944 
 15,696 
 13,499 
 12,279 
 11,421 
 11,152 
 8,624 
Total equity
 242,987 
 243,723 
 230,358 
 224,864 
 194,331 
 168,481 
 150,077 
 134,319 
 100,971 
 79,962 
Total debt
 172,904 
 100,907 
 54,513 
 29,722 
 22,766 
 20,750 
 23,934 
 26,139 
 20,107 
 20,054 
 415,891 
 344,630 
 284,871 
 254,586 
 217,097 
 189,231 
 174,011 
 160,458 
 121,078 
 100,016 
ASSETS EMPLOYED
Property, plant and equipment (PP&E)
 113,077 
 111,534 
 97,688 
 87,260 
 64,396 
 52,737 
 49,563 
 47,406 
 49,200 
 34,246 
Non-current assets other than PP&E
 257,226 
 204,360 
 170,687 
 136,427 
 107,912 
 93,376 
 78,030 
 71,969 
 59,787 
 52,397 
Current assets
 166,491 
 121,050 
 95,421 
 98,762 
 104,964 
 94,863 
 90,493 
 82,206 
 49,934 
 47,412 
Liabilities net of debt
 (120,903)
 (92,314)
 (78,925)
 (67,862)
 (60,175)
 (51,745)
 (44,075)
 (41,123)
 (37,843)
 (34,039)
 415,891 
 344,630 
 284,871 
 254,587 
 217,097 
 189,231 
 174,011 
 160,458 
 121,078 
 100,016 
CASH FLOWS
Net cash flows from operating activities
 13,825 
(10,350)
(4,743)
 16,012 
 21,020 
 20,513 
 20,855 
 8,041 
 14,568 
 16,476 
Net cash flows from / (used in) investing 
activities
 (44,944)
 (27,039)
 (8,452)
 (16,640)
 (17,670)
 (9,567)
 (1,255)
 (19,710)
 (16,199)
 (9,003)
 Net cash flows from / (used in) financing 
activities
 55,427 
 18,431
 (11,000)
 (4,587)
 (4,105)
 (7,717)
 (4,838)
 25,446 
 (1,320)
 496 
Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash 
equivalents
 24,308 
 (18,959)
 (14,709)
 (5,215) 
 (755)
 3,229 
 14,762 
 13,777 
 (2,951)
 7,969 
KEY INDICATORS
Basic earnings per share (Rs.)
3.62
 7.14 
 11.13 
 15.20 
 11.9 
 10.5 
 12.6 
 10.5
 10.7 
 9.5 
Interest cover (no. of times)
1.7
4.9
7.8
54
 52.8 
51.5
 27.7 
 13.6 
 15.4 
 10.0 
Net assets per share** (Rs.) 
 171.4 
 164.3 
 154.9 
 151.7 
 135.5 
 117.6 
 104.5 
93.2
68.1
54.1
Enterprise value (EV)
244,679
186,236
 210,020 
187,926 
 136,022 
 124,182 
 155,675 
 124,182 
 203,615 
 166,143 
EV / EBITDA
15.7
9.2
 8.5 
 5.8 
 5.0 
 5.0 
 6.6 
 10.0 
 10.0 
 13.1 
ROE (%)
 2.2 
 4.5 
 7.5 
 11.1 
 9.8 
 9.6 
 11. 0 
11.0
 15.0 
 14.7 
Debt / equity ratio (%)
71.2
41.4
23.7
13.2
 11.7 
 12.3 
 15.9 
 19.5 
 19.9 
 25.0 
Dividend payout (Rs. Mn)
 1,978 
 4,614 
 8,186 
 8,325 
 7,280 
 8,038 
 3,476 
 3,267 
 2,982 
 2,314 
Current ratio (no. of times)
2.3
2.1
1.7
3.0
 3.7 
 4.0 
 2.6 
 2.4 
 2.0 
 2.0 
Market price per share unadjusted (Rs.)
148.5
115.4
156.0
159.6
 137.9 
 148.0 
 199.4 
 227.0 
 247.0 
 206.0 
Market price per share diluted (Rs.)
148.5
115.4
156.0
 159.6 
 137.9 
 129.5 
192.7
173.8
238.2 
 152.6
Revenue growth rate (%)
-8.1
2.6
11.8
14.1
13.4
1.6
5.9
4.1
9.7
25.5
USD closing rate (Rs.)
200.3
189.6
175.5
155.9
151.9
147.7
133.5
130.7
126.8
128.1
USD average rate (Rs.)
189.0
179.4
168.6
153.6
148.0
139.2
131.2
130.1
129.9
112.6
*	
The figures are derived from financial statements prepared in accordance with SLFRS/LKAS. Figures for the remaining periods are derived from 
financial statements prepared in accordance with previous SLASs.
**	
Net assets per share has been calculated, for all periods, based on the net assets of the Group and number of shares in issue as at 31 March 2021

286   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
ECONOMIC VALUE STATEMENT
Transportation
Consumer Foods
Retail
Leisure
Property
For the year ended 31 
March
LKR. Mn
2021
2020
2021
2020
2021
2020
2021
2020
2021
2020
Direct economic value 
generated
 Revenue 
 18,403 
 25,066 
 18,298 
 18,694 
 70,400 
 64,900 
 6,079 
 19,323 
 1,109 
 1,072 
 Finance income 
 143 
 173 
 50 
 845 
 110 
 28 
 458 
 783 
 151 
 409 
 Share of results of 
associates 
 2,423 
 2,997 
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 (71)
 (8)
 99 
 95 
 Profit on sale of assets 
& other income 
 236 
 164 
 981 
 353 
 1,868 
 1,763 
 452 
 312 
 64 
 (62)
 Valuation gain on IP 
 -   
 -   
 4 
 42 
 -   
 -   
 16 
 22 
 (291)
 455 
 21,205 
 28,400 
 19,333 
 19,934 
 72,378 
 66,691 
 6,934 
 20,432 
 1,132 
 1,969 
 Economic value 
distributed 
 Operating costs 
 16,266 
 25,335 
 10,363 
 10,612 
 61,697 
 57,862 
 4,686 
 11,557 
 839 
 1,234 
 Employee wages & 
benefits 
 728 
 820 
 2,892 
 2,863 
 3,914 
 3,454 
 4,105 
 5,021 
 375 
 359 
 Payments to providers 
of funds 
 546 
 932 
 2,325 
 2,579 
 2,548 
 2,213 
 539 
 1,231 
 20 
 90 
 Payments to 
government 
 142 
 143 
 1,088 
 1,664 
 499 
 277 
 47 
 364 
 65 
 46 
 Community 
investments 
 6 
 6 
 25 
 14 
 11 
 19 
 4 
 10 
 -   
 1 
 17,688 
 27,236 
 16,693 
 17,732 
 68,669 
 63,825 
 9,381 
 18,183 
 1,299 
 1,730 
 Economic value 
retained 
 Depreciation 
 202 
 195 
 853 
 844 
 1,181 
 1,063 
 2,207 
 1,818 
 46 
 35 
 Amortisation 
 61 
 2 
 10 
 9 
 1,055 
 850 
 1,557 
 1,413 
 23 
 27 
 Profit after dividends 
 3,254 
 967 
 1,777 
 1,349 
 1,473 
 953 
 (6,211)
 (982)
 (236)
 177 
 Retained for 
reinvestment / 
growth 
 3,517 
 1,164 
 2,640 
 2,202 
 3,709 
 2,866 
 (2,447)
 2,249 
 (167)
 239 
Above data has been derived from the audited Financial Statements that were prepared based on Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRS/LKAS). 
This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option

287
Supplementary Information
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Financial Services
Others
Total
Eliminations/
Adjustments
Group Total
2021
2020
2021
2020
2021
2020
2021
2020
2021
%
2020
%
 13,603 
 11,251 
 6,358 
 5,976 
 134,250 
 146,282 
 (6,574)
 (7,326)
 127,676 
 88.11 
 138,956 
 89.31 
 5,450 
 4,785 
 13,067 
 10,342 
 19,429 
 17,365 
 (8,740)
 (8,008)
 10,689 
 7.38 
 9,357 
 6.01 
 1,708 
 1,382 
 -   
 -   
 4,159 
 4,466 
 -   
 -   
 4,159 
 2.87 
 4,466 
 2.87 
 42 
 50 
 1,861 
 2,082 
 5,504 
 4,662 
 (2,877)
 (2,420)
 2,627 
 1.81 
 2,242 
 1.44 
 -   
 -   
 18 
 54 
 (253)
 573 
 -   
 -   
 (253)
 (0.17)
 573 
 0.37 
 20,803 
 17,468 
 21,304 
 18,454 
 163,089 
 173,348 
 (18,191)
 (17,754)
 144,898 
 100.00 
 155,594 
 100.00 
 14,944 
 13,639 
 12,129 
 8,169 
 120,924 
 128,408 
 (10,947)
 (17,591)
 109,977 
 75.90 
 110,817 
 71.22 
 1,351 
 1,226 
 1,977 
 2,062 
 15,342 
 15,805 
 -   
 -   
 15,342 
 10.59 
 15,805 
 10.16 
 1,178 
 1,324 
 3,707 
 5,264 
 10,863 
 13,633 
 (4,444)
 (5,630)
 6,419 
 4.43 
 8,003 
 5.14 
 307 
 -   
 918 
 756 
 3,066 
 3,250 
 -   
 -   
 3,066 
 2.12 
 3,250 
 2.09 
 13 
 1 
 76 
 5 
 135 
 56 
 -   
 -   
 135 
 0.09 
 56 
 0.04 
 17,793 
 16,190 
 18,807 
 16,256 
 150,330 
 161,152 
 (15,391)
 (23,221)
 134,939 
 93.13 
 137,931 
 88.65 
 84 
 86 
 153 
 144 
 4,726 
 4,185 
 -   
 -   
 4,726 
 3.26 
 4,185 
 2.69 
 508 
 436 
 47 
 32 
 3,261 
 2,769 
 -   
 -   
 3,261 
 2.25 
 2,769 
 1.78 
 2,418 
 756 
 2,297 
 2,022 
 4,772 
 5,242 
 (2,800)
 5,467 
 1,972 
 1.36 
 10,709 
 6.88 
 3,010 
 1,278 
 2,497 
 2,198 
 12,759 
 12,196 
 (2,800)
 5,467 
 9,959 
 6.87 
 17,663 
 11.35 

288   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
INDICATIVE US DOLLAR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Income Statement
for information purposes only
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
2021
2020
2021
2020
In USD '000s
Continuing operations 
Revenue from contracts with customers
 571,415 
 674,145 
 8,173 
 7,711 
Revenue from Insurance Contracts
 66,007 
 58,647 
 -   
 -   
Total Revenue
 637,422 
 732,792 
 8,173 
 7,711 
Cost of sales
 (542,921)
 (595,249)
 (4,780)
 (5,247)
Gross profit
 94,501 
 137,543 
 3,393 
 2,464 
Dividend income
 -   
 -   
 41,669 
 33,580 
Other operating income
 13,113 
 11,822 
 203 
 241 
Selling and distribution expenses
 (23,770)
 (29,102)
 -   
 -   
Administrative expenses
(64,542)
 (69,311)
 (5,243)
 (6,254)
Other operating expenses
(6,562)
 (15,150)
 (107)
 (137)
Results from operating activities
 12,740 
 35,802 
 39,915 
 29,894 
Finance cost
 (23,311)
 (16,694)
 (6,215)
 (1,250)
Finance income
 53,364 
 49,347 
 23,052 
 20,157 
Change in insurance contract liabilities
 (35,106)
 (29,624)
 -   
 -   
Change in fair value of investment property
 (1,265)
 3,024 
 -   
 -   
Share of results of equity accounted investees (net of tax)
 20,763 
 23,554 
 -   
 -   
Profit before tax 
 27,185 
 65,409 
 56,752 
 48,801 
Tax expense
(7,460)
 (14,040)
4,000
 (3,240)
Profit for the year 
19,725
 51,369 
52,752
 45,561 
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent
23,825
 49,645 
Non-controlling interests
 (4,100)
 1,724 
19,725
 51,369 
Earnings per share
Basic earnings per ordinary share
0.02
0.04
Diluted earnings per ordinary share
0.02
0.04
This information does not constitute a full set of financial statements in compliance with SLFRS/LKAS. The above should be read together with the 
Auditors' opinion and the notes to the financial statements. Exchange rates prevailing at year end USD/LKR 200.30 (2020 - 189.62) have been used to 
convert the income statement and statement of financial position.

289
Supplementary Information
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Statement of Financial Position 
for information purposes only
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2021
2020
2021
2020
In USD '000s
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment
 564,536 
 588,181 
 553 
 761 
Right- of - use assets
 202,780 
 196,020 
-
-
Investment property
74,225
 79,146 
 -   
 -   
Intangible assets
 24,229 
 17,345 
 487 
 541 
Investments in subsidiaries 
 -   
 -   
 505,914 
 463,209 
Investments in equity accounted investees
 142,935 
 149,397 
 52,905 
 54,750 
Non-current financial assets
 312,480 
 211,356 
 87,924 
 1,503 
Deferred tax assets
 5,437 
 4,759 
 -   
 -   
Other non-current assets
522,118
 419,685 
 463 
 99 
1,848,740
 1,665,889 
 648,246 
 520,863 
Current assets
Inventories
 271,074 
 264,568 
 -   
 -   
Trade and other receivables
 87,153 
 64,265 
 573 
 662 
Amounts due from related parties
 617 
 2,055 
 7,318 
 3,595 
Other current assets
 29,553 
 34,349 
 853 
 5,932 
Short term investments
 345,795 
 202,811 
 257,569 
 144,348 
Cash in hand and at bank
 97,017 
 70,316 
 1,525 
 932 
 831,209 
 638,364 
 267,838 
 155,469 
Total assets
2,679,949
 2,304,253 
 916,084 
 676,332 
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent
Stated capital
 315,036 
 331,609 
 315,036 
 331,609 
Revenue reserves
452,581
 463,468 
340,573
 314,470 
Other components of equity
 361,473 
 348,505 
 18,077 
 14,370 
1,129,090
 1,143,582 
673,686
 660,449 
Non-controlling interest
84,024
 141,712 
 -   
 -   
Total equity
1,213,114
 1,285,294 
673,686
 660,449 
Non-current liabilities
Insurance contract liabilities
 225,465 
 201,376 
 -   
 -   
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
 593,937 
 268,558 
 220,567 
 1,528 
Lease liabilities
 120,993 
 104,998 
 -   
 -   
Deferred tax liabilities
 38,543 
 43,744 
 -   
 -   
Employee benefit liabilities
 14,049 
 12,361 
 1,155 
 904 
Non-current financial liabilities
 18,277 
 19,090 
 -   
 -   
Other non-current liabilities
 97,582 
 66,520 
 -   
 -   
 1,108,846 
 716,647 
 221,722 
 2,432 
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables
 176,174 
 125,941 
 1,861 
 2,233 
Amounts due to related parties
 7 
 11 
 66 
 4 
Income tax liabilities
9,926
 9,216 
3,582
 2,054 
Short term borrowings
 34,467 
 30,607 
 -   
 -   
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
 47,466 
 27,454 
 15,014 
 1,667 
Lease liabilities
 7,350 
 7,292 
 -   
 -   
Other current financial liabilities
 14,933 
 -   
 -   
 -   
Other current liabilities
 8,654 
 8,560 
 104 
 18 
Bank overdrafts
 59,012 
 93,231 
 49 
 7,475 
357,989
 302,312 
20,676
 13,451 
Total equity and liabilities
 2,679,949 
 2,304,253 
916,084
 676,332 
This information does not constitute a full set of financial statements in compliance with SLFRS/LKAS. The above should be read together with the 
Auditors' opinion and the notes to the financial statements. Exchange rates prevailing at year end USD/LKR 200.30 (2020 - 189.62) have been used to 
convert the income statement and statement of financial position.

290   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
GROUP REAL ESTATE PORTFOLIO
Land in acres
Net book value
Owning company and location
Number of
 Buildings
Buildings
in (sq. ft.)
Freehold
Leasehold
2021
LKR ‘000s
2020
LKR ‘000s
PROPERTIES IN COLOMBO
John Keells PLC
	 56/1, 58, 58 1/1 Kirulapone Avenue, Colombo 5.
 - 
 - 
0.08
 - 
 1,250 
 1,250 
Keells Realtors Ltd
 	 427 & 429, Ferguson Road, Colombo 15.
2
27,750
1.22
 - 
 405,060 
 405,060 
Mackinnon Keells Ltd
 	 Leyden Bastian Road, York Street, Colombo 01.
1
31,656
0.45
 - 
 703,646 
 703,646 
Union Assurance PLC
	 No 20, St. Michaels' Road, Colombo 03.
1
57,910
0.58
 - 
 1,949,985 
 2,225,438 
Vauxhall Developments (Pvt) Ltd 
 	 No.199 ,Union Place, Colombo 2 and 148, Vauxhall 
Street, Colombo 2.
7
 209,484 
3.56
 - 
 8,832,830 
 8,832,830 
 	 No.188, 188/1, 188/2, 190, 192 Vauxhall Street, Colombo 
2 and 42, Dawson Street, Colombo 2.
 - 
 - 
2.09
 - 
 5,183,200 
 5,183,200 
	 No. 186, 186/3 Vauxhall Street, Colombo 2.
 - 
 - 
3.72
 - 
 9,236,605 
 9,236,605 
John Keells Property Developments 
 	 No. 12, 12/1, 12/2, 12/2A, 12/3, Tickell Road, Borella.
 - 
 - 
 0.62 
 - 
 1,137,120 
 1,137,120 
Glennie Properties (Pvt) Ltd 
 	 No.82, Glennie Street, Colombo 02.
 - 
 - 
0.08
 - 
 181,800 
 181,800 
John Keells Logistics (Pvt) Ltd
 	 No.11, York Street, Colombo 01.
3
 147,500 
 - 
 - 
160,146
 - 
14
 474,300 
 12.40 
 - 
 27,791,642 
 27,906,950 
PROPERTIES OUTSIDE COLOMBO
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC
 	 Kaduwela.
21
313,024
27.35
 - 
 1,551,254 
 1,503,548 
 	 Trincomalee.
3
19,071
1.06
 - 
 300,295 
 296,422 
Facets (Pvt) Ltd
	 Ahungalla.
-
 - 
 6.31 
 - 
 443,800 
 438,800 
John Keells PLC
 	 17/1, Temple Road, Ekala, Ja-Ela.
 - 
 - 
3.77
 - 
 392,535 
 377,450 
John Keells Properties Ja-Ela (Pvt) Ltd
 	 No 525, Colombo Road, Kapuwatta, Ja-Ela.
1
 144,631 
 6.60 
 - 
 2,038,487 
 1,980,513 
John Keells Warehousing (Pvt) Ltd
 	 Muthurajawela.
3
141,669
 - 
 6.19 
 356,047 
 351,168 
Keells Food Products PLC
 	 41, Temple Road, Ekala, Ja-Ela.
8
52,698
 3.00 
 1.00 
 361,896 
 343,404 
 	 Gonawala, Pannala.
4
41,166
 3.86 
 4.08 
 347,652 
 341,992 
Logipark International (Pvt) Ltd 
  
 
 
 
 
 	 Muthurajawela.
-
-
-
 9.00
 582,176
 582,176
Rajawella Holdings Ltd
	 Mahaberiatenna, Kandy.
4
 57,998 
 - 
 367.83 
1,985,862
 2,102,538 
Tea Smallholder Factories PLC
 	 Broadlands.
11
 61,040 
 4.14 
 - 
 83,345 
 81,388 
 	 Halwitigala.
14
 53,432 
 9.61 
 - 
 69,544 
 69,712 
 	 Hingalgoda.
26
 65,994 
 12.04 
 - 
 105,278 
 104,573 
 	 Karawita.
12
 79,244 
-
 4.98 
 121,225 
 123,923 
 	 Kurupanawa.
22
 56,634 
 12.12 
 - 
 90,383 
 88,425 
 	 Neluwa.
18
 49,552 
 3.74 
 - 
 79,472 
 80,331 
 	 New Panawenna.
8
 46,186 
 10.59 
 - 
 58,654 
 57,675 
 	 Peliyagoda.
1
 31,629 
 - 
 0.98 
 424,605 
 426,976 
156
 1,213,968 
104.19
 394.06 
9,392,510
 9,351,013 

291
Supplementary Information
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Land in acres
Net book value
Owning company and location
Number of
 Buildings
Buildings
in (sq. ft.)
Freehold
Leasehold
2021
LKR ‘000s
2020
LKR ‘000s
PROPERTIES OUTSIDE COLOMBO
The Colombo Ice Company (Pvt) Ltd
	 Awissawella.
9
 182,937 
 - 
 9.30 
 1,699,430 
 1,656,655 
J K Thudella Properties (Pvt) Ltd
 	 Tudella, Ja-Ela.
-
 - 
 12.11 
 - 
 523,233 
 523,233 
Union Assurance PLC
	 No 06,Rajapihilla Road, Kurunegala.
1
27,412
 0.18 
 - 
 313,856 
 315,892 
Whittall Boustead Ltd
 	 150, Badulla Road, Nuwara Eliya.
1
4,343
 0.46 
 - 
 152,834 
 152,834 
167
1,428,660
116.94
 403.36 
12,081,863
 11,999,627 
HOTEL PROPERTIES
Asian Hotels and Properties PLC
 	 Cinnamon Grand Premises, Colombo 2.
4
734,932
 8.03 
 - 
 25,363,435 
 25,198,868 
 	 Crescat Boulevard, Colombo 2.
1
145,196
 1.39 
 - 
 6,030,134 
 6,266,355 
Ahungalla Holiday Resort (Pvt) Ltd
	 Ahungalla.
-
 - 
 6.51 
 - 
 295,250 
 289,900 
Beruwala Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
	 Cinnamon Bey, Beruwala.
5
 460,515 
 11.39 
 - 
 3,884,246 
 3,880,649 
Ceylon Holiday Resorts Ltd
 	 Bentota Beach Hotel, Bentota.
9
 334,457 
 2.32 
11.02
 4,298,059 
 2,277,807 
Fantasea World Investments (Pte) Ltd
 	 Chaaya Lagoon Hakuraa Huraa, Republic of Maldives.
163
 236,730 
 - 
 18.90 
 8,371,773 
 7,686,489 
Habarana Lodge Ltd
 	 Cinnamon Lodge, Habarana.
79
202,999
 - 
 25.48 
 662,512 
 731,855 
Habarana Walk Inn Ltd
 	 Chaaya Village, Habarana.
84
121,767
 - 
 9.34 
 280,376 
 321,678 
Hikkaduwa Holiday Resort (Pvt) Ltd
 	 Chaaya Tranz, Hikkaduwa.
5
233,965
 0.29 
 4.36 
 1,220,381 
 1,280,601 
Kandy Walk Inn Ltd
 	 Cinnamon Citadel, Kandy.
6
173,900
 6.57 
 - 
 1,605,598 
 1,620,820 
Nuwara Eliya Holiday Resort (Pvt) Ltd
	 Nuwara Eliya.
-
 - 
 2.66 
 - 
 279,000 
 276,900 
Resort Hotels Ltd
 	 Medway Estate, Nilaveli.
1
 4,485 
 41.73 
 - 
 906,900 
 900,600 
Trans Asia Hotels PLC
 	 Cinnamon Lake Side, Colombo 2.
2
371,611
 - 
 7.65 
 6,148,708 
 6,224,647 
Tranquility (Pte) Ltd
 	 Chaaya Island Dhonveli, Republic of Maldives.
146
261,327
 - 
 17.16 
 17,491,160 
 14,614,995 
Tranquility (Pte) Ltd
 	 Velifushi, Republic of Maldives.
145
 263,512 
 - 
 13.22 
 6,404,531 
 6,667,102 
Travel Club (Pte) Ltd
 	 Chaaya Reef Ellaidhoo, Republic of Maldives.
115
178,294
 - 
 13.80 
 5,121,455 
 5,406,983 
Trinco Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
 	 Chaaya Blu, Trincomalee.
9
120,910
 13.24 
 - 
 1,358,613 
 1,289,389 
Trinco Walk Inn Ltd
 	 Club Oceanic, Trincomalee.
-
 - 
14.64
 - 
 369,200 
 369,200 
Wirawila Walk Inn Ltd
 	 Randunukelle Estate, Wirawila.
-
 - 
 25.15 
 - 
 89,300 
 88,133 
Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd
 	 Cinnamon Wild, Tissamaharama.
76
113,509
 - 
 11.25 
 487,108 
 488,440 
850
3,958,109
133.92
132.18
90,667,739
 85,881,410 
Improvements to Keells Super outlets on leased hold 
properties and lease rentals paid in advance
124
 1,342,272 
 - 
 92.37 
 15,536,349 
 13,484,868 
Consolidated Value of Land and Buildings, Right of Use 
Assets and investment property
1,155
7,203,341
263.26
627.91
146,077,593
 139,272,855 

292   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
GLOSSARY
ACCRUAL BASIS
Recording revenues and expenses in the period 
in which they are earned or incurred regardless 
of whether cash is received or disbursed in that 
period.
ASSET TURNOVER
Revenue including equity accounted investees 
divided by average total assets.
BETA
Covariance between daily JKH share return and 
market return divided by variance of daily market 
return, over a 5-year period.
CAPITAL EMPLOYED
Shareholders’ funds plus non-controlling interests 
and debt including lease liabilities.
CAPITAL STRUCTURE LEVERAGE (CSL)
Average total assets divided by average 
shareholders’ equity.
CASH EARNINGS PER SHARE
Profit attributable to equity holders of the 
parent adjusted for non-cash items minus share 
of profits of equity accounted investees plus 
dividends from equity accounted investees 
divided by the weighted average number of 
ordinary shares in issue during the period
COMMON EARNINGS LEVERAGE (CEL)
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 
divided by profit after tax.
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
A condition or situation existing as at the date 
of the Report due to past events, where the 
financial effect is not recognised because:
1.	 The obligation is crystallised by the 
occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more 
future events or,
2.	 A probable outflow of economic resources is 
not expected or,
3.	 It is unable to be measured with sufficient 
reliability
CURRENT RATIO
Current assets divided by current liabilities.
DEBT/EQUITY RATIO
Debt as a percentage of shareholders’ funds and 
non-controlling interests.
DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPS)
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 
divided by the weighted average number 
of ordinary shares in issue during the period 
adjusted for options granted but not exercised 
and outstanding unexpired warrants.
DIVIDEND PAYABLE
Final dividend per share multiplied by the latest 
available total number of shares as at the date of 
the Report.
DIVIDEND PAYOUT RATIO
Dividend paid as a percentage of Group profits 
adjusted for non-cash gains items.
DIVIDEND YIELD
Dividends adjusted for changes in number of 
shares in issue as a percentage of the share price 
(diluted) at the end of the period.
EARNINGS PER SHARE (BASIC)
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 
divided by the weighted average number of 
ordinary shares in issue during the period.
EBIT
Earnings before interest expense and tax 
(includes other operating income). Note that 
EBIT includes interest income, fair value gains 
and losses on investment property, depreciation 
and amortisation, and share of results of 
equity accounted investees, but excludes 
exchange gains or losses on its foreign currency 
denominated debt and cash.
EBITDA
Earnings before interest expense, tax, 
depreciation and amortisation (includes other 
operating income). Note that EBITDA includes 
interest income, fair value gains and losses 
on investment property and share of results 
of equity accounted investees, but excludes 
exchange gains or losses on its foreign currency 
denominated debt and cash.
EBIT MARGIN
EBIT divided by revenue inclusive of share of 
equity accounted investees.
EFFECTIVE RATE OF TAXATION
Tax expense divided by profit before tax.
ENTERPRISE VALUE (EV)
Market capitalisation plus net debt/(net cash).
INTEREST COVER
Consolidated profit before interest and tax over 
interest expense.
LIABILITIES TO TANGIBLE NET WORTH
Total non-current and current liabilities including 
contingent liabilities divided by tangible net 
worth.
LONG-TERM DEBT TO TOTAL DEBT
Long-term loans as a percentage of total debt.
MARKET CAPITALISATION
Number of shares in issue at the end of the 
period multiplied by the market price at the end 
of the period.
NET ASSETS
Total assets minus current liabilities, long-term 
liabilities, and non-controlling interests.
NET ASSETS PER SHARE
Net assets as at a particular financial year end 
divided by the number of shares in issue as at the 
current financial year end.
NET DEBT (CASH)
Total debt minus cash in hand and at bank 
minus short term investments minus deposits 
with a maturity between 1 and 3 years held at 
the Holding Company, excluding short-term 
investments under the life fund of UA, restricted 
regulatory fund at UA and customer advances at 
the Property Development sector. 
NET PROFIT MARGIN
Profit after tax attributable to equity holders of 
the parent divided by total revenue including 
equity accounted investees.
PRICE EARNINGS RATIO
Market price per share (diluted) over diluted 
earnings per share.
PRICE TO BOOK RATIO
Market price per share (diluted) over net asset 
value per share.
PRICE TO CASH EARNINGS
Diluted market price per share divided by diluted 
cash earnings per share.
PUBLIC HOLDING
Percentage of shares held by the public 
calculated as per the Colombo Stock Exchange 
Listing Rules as at the date of the Report.
QUICK RATIO
Cash plus short-term investments plus 
receivables, divided by current liabilities.
RECURRING EBITDA/ RECURRING EBIT/
RECURRING PAT/RECURRING PAT TO EQUITY 
HOLDERS OF THE PARENT
Profit, as applicable, adjusted for the one-off 
impacts discussed under the Group Consolidated 
Review section of the Report: Page 40.
RETURN ON ASSETS
Profit after tax divided by the average total assets.
RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED (ROCE)
EBIT as a percentage of average capital employed.
RETURN ON EQUITY (ROE)
Profit attributable to shareholders as a percentage 
of average shareholders’ funds.
SCOPE 1 AND SCOPE 2
The GHG Protocol has established a classification 
of GHG emissions called ‘Scope’: Scope 1, Scope 
2 and Scope 3. The GHG emissions standard 
published by the International Organisation for 
Standardisation (ISO), ‘ISO 14064’, represents these 
classifications of Scope with the following terms:
1.	 Direct GHG emissions = Scope I
2.	 Energy indirect GHG emissions = Scope 2
SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS
Total of stated capital, other components of 
equity and revenue reserves.
TANGIBLE NET WORTH
Total equity less intangible assets and deferred 
tax assets.
TOTAL DEBT
Long and short-term loans, including overdrafts, 
but excluding lease liabilities. Instances where 
total debt includes lease liabilities are explicitly 
mentioned.
TOTAL EQUITY
Shareholders’ funds plus non-controlling interest.
WORKING CAPITAL
Current assets minus current liabilities.

293
Supplementary Information
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT ON  
NON-FINANCIAL REPORTING
Scope and Approach
DNV represented by DNV GL Business 
Assurance Lanka (Private) Limited (hereafter 
referred as DNV) has been commissioned by 
the management of John Keells Holdings PLC 
(‘JKH’ or the ‘Company’, Company Registration 
Number PQ14) to carry out an independent 
assurance engagement for the non-financial 
- qualitative and quantitative information, 
including sustainability performance, 
reported in JKH’s Annual Report 2020-2021 
(the ‘Report’) in its printed format and web 
version of the report for the financial year 
ending 31st March 2021. The sustainability 
disclosures in this Report are prepared by 
JKH considering the key requirements of the 
Global Reporting Initiative (‘GRI’) Sustainability 
Reporting Standards 2016 and amendment’s 
to topic specific standards (2018, 2019) (‘GRI 
Standards’) in accordance with the Core 
option of reporting and other frameworks to 
which JKH subscribes.
We performed a Type 2 Moderate Level of 
assurance using AccountAbility’s AA1000 
Assurance Standard v3 (August 2020, 
‘AA1000AS v3’) and DNV’s assurance 
methodology VeriSustainTM1 , which is 
based on our professional experience, 
international assurance best practices 
including International Standard on 
Assurance Engagements 3000 (ISAE 3000) 
Revised* and the GRI’s Principles for Defining 
Report Content and Quality. Our assurance 
engagement was planned and carried 
out during February 2021 – May 2021. The 
intended user of this assurance statement is 
the Management of JKH. 
The reporting Topic Boundaries of 
sustainability performance are based on 
internal and external materiality assessment 
carried out by the Company and covers 
various business sectors of JKH. The Report 
does not include performance data and 
information related to the activities of non-
operational entities, investment entities and 
companies holding only land, over which 
JKH does not exercise operational and 
management control. This is as set out in the 
Report in the section ‘Scope and Boundary’. 
The reported data on economic performance, 
and other financial data are based on audited 
financial statements issued by the Company’s 
statutory auditors.
We planned and performed our work to 
obtain the evidence we considered necessary 
to provide a basis for our assurance opinion 
and the process did not involve engagement 
with external stakeholders. 
Responsibilities of the Management of 
JKH and of the Assurance Provider
The Management of JKH have the sole 
responsibility for the preparation of the 
Report as well as the processes for collecting, 
analysing and reporting the information 
presented in the Report. In performing this 
assurance work, DNV's responsibility is to 
the Management; however, this statement 
represents our independent opinion and 
is intended to inform the outcome of the 
assurance to the stakeholders of the Company. 
DNV provides a range of other services to JKH, 
none of which in our opinion, constitute a 
conflict of interest with this assurance work.
DNV GL’s assurance engagements are 
based on the assumption that the data and 
information provided by the client to us as 
part of our review have been provided in 
good faith and free from misstatements. 
We were not involved in the preparation 
of any statements or data included in the 
Report except for this Assurance Statement. 
DNV expressly disclaims any liability or co-
responsibility for any decision a person or an 
entity may make based on this Assurance 
Statement.
Basis of our Opinion
As part of the assurance a multi-disciplinary 
team of sustainability and assurance specialists 
performed remote assessment of JKH’s 
Corporate Office, and sample operations in 
Sri Lanka and the Maldives. We undertook the 
following activities: 
•	 Review of JKH’s approach to stakeholder 
engagement and materiality determination 
process and the outcome as presented 
in this Report. We did not have any direct 
engagement with external stakeholders.
•	 Interviews with selected senior managers 
responsible for management of 
sustainability issues and review of selected 
evidence to support issues disclosed 
within the Report. We were free to choose 
interviewees and interviewed those 
with overall responsibility to deliver the 
Company’s sustainability objectives.
•	 Site assessment of sample operations of 
the Group:(i) JKH office, Vauxhall Street, 
(ii) Cinnamon Bentota Beach – Bentota 
and Ellaidhoo Maldives by Cinnamon (iii) 
Infomate Private Limited – Colombo (iv) 
Keells Super, Keells Super Outlet –Nalluruwa 
and discussion with management team of 
JayKay Marketing Services Limited at Head 
office, Colombo - to review processes and 
systems for preparing site level sustainability 
data and implementation of sustainability 
strategy. We were free to choose sites for 
conducting assessments.
•	 Review of supporting evidence for key 
claims and data presented in the Report.
•	 Review of the processes for gathering and 
consolidating the specified performance 
data related to identified material topics 
and, for a sample, checking the data 
consolidation in context to the Principle of 
Completeness as per DNV’s VeriSustain. 
•	 An independent assessment of JKH’s 
reporting against the reporting 
requirements for the GRI Standards: Core 
option of reporting.
Opinion
On the basis of our work undertaken, nothing 
has come to our attention to suggest that 
the Report does not properly describe JKH’s 
adherence to the Reporting Principles of 
the GRI Standards and other guidelines 
including the requirements of the Core option 
of reporting (GRI 102: General Disclosures 
2016, GRI 103: Management Approach 2016) 
and disclosures related to the following GRI 
Standards which have been chosen by JKH 
to bring out its sustainability/ non-financial 
performance against its identified material 
topics:
• 	 GRI 201: Economic Performance  
2016 – 201-1, 201-3;
•	 GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts  
2016 – 203-1;
•	 GRI 204; Procurement Practices  
2016 – 204-1;
1 	  The VeriSustain protocol is available on request from www.dnv.com
*	
Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information.

294   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
•	 GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 – 205-1;
•	 GRI 207: Tax 2019 – 207-1, 207-2, 207-3,  
207-4;
•	 GRI 302: Energy 2016 – 302-1, 302-4; 
•	 GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018 – 303-1, 
303-2, 303-3, 303-4;
•	 GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016 - 304-1;
•	 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 – 305-1, 305-2;
•	 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 – 306-3;
•	 GRI 306: Waste 2020 – 306-1, 306-2, 306-3;
•	 GRI 307: Environmental Compliance  
2016 – 307-1;
•	 GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 
2016 – 308-1;
•	 GRI 401: Employment 2016 – 401-1;
•	 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 
2018 – 403-1, 403-2, 403-3, 403-4, 403-5, 
403-6, 403-7, 403-9;
•	 GRI 404: Training and Education  
2016 – 404-1, 404-3;
•	 GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 
2016 – 405-1;
•	 GRI 407: Freedom of association and 
collective bargaining 2016 – 407-1
•	 GRI 408: Child Labor 2016 – 408-1;
•	 GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor  
2016 – 409-1;
•	 GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 – 413-1;
•	 GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment  
2016 – 414-1;
•	 GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety  
2016 - 416-1;
•	 GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling  
2016 – 417-1, 417-3;
•	 GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance  
2016 – 419-1.
Observations
Without affecting our assurance opinion, 
we also provide the following observations 
evaluating the Report’s adherence to the 
AA1000 Accountability Principles Standard 
(2018): 
Inclusivity
People should have a say in the decisions that 
impact them.
The Report articulates that the process 
and outcome of stakeholder engagement, 
considering the pandemic situation by the 
Group and its business sectors; further the 
Report also brings out the engagement 
frequencies and stakeholder expectations 
to be addressed on a regular basis by JKH to 
develop sustainability action plans based the 
inputs of these engagements. 
Nothing has come to our attention to 
suggest that the Report does not meet the 
requirements related to the Principle of 
Inclusivity
Materiality
Decision makers should identify and be clear 
about the sustainability topics that matter.
The Report brings out the application of the 
Materiality principle of GRI Standards to arrive 
at significant material topics considering its 
nature of business, importance to internal and 
external stakeholders. The Group considers 
materiality assessment as a key process in 
its sustainability journey to define key ESG 
issues that are of significance and vital to 
drive performance, improve its sustainability 
framework and institutionalise the Group’s 
corporate governance philosophy at all levels.
Nothing has come to our attention to 
suggest that the Report does not meet the 
requirements related to the Principle of 
Materiality.
Responsiveness
The extent to which an organisation responds to 
stakeholder issues.
Report discloses that the Group uses both its 
Annual Report and corporate website as the 
primary means of responding to stakeholder 
concerns, and outlines its sustainability 
strategy, including materiality assessments, 
management policies and processes, and 
includes Environment, Social and Governance 
(ESG) disclosures/ indicators considering 
the core option of reporting based on GRI 
Standards and other frameworks to which JKH 
subscribes.
Nothing has come to our attention to 
suggest that the Report does not meet the 
requirements related to the Principle of 
Responsiveness.
Impact
Organisations should monitor, measure, and be 
accountable for how their actions affect their 
broader ecosystems.
The Report brings out the key metrics and 
management processes established for 
monitoring, measurement, and evaluation 
of key non-financial impacts of business on 
internal and external stakeholders of Group 
and business sectors including its value chain. 
Nothing has come to our attention to 
suggest that the Report does not meet the 
requirements related to the Principle of 
Impact. 
Specific Evaluation of the Information on 
Sustainability Performance
We consider the methodology and the 
process for gathering information developed 
by JKH for its sustainability performance 
reporting to be appropriate, and both 
qualitative and quantitative data included 
in the Report was found to be identifiable 
and traceable; the personnel responsible 
were able to demonstrate the origin and 
interpretation of the data and its reliability. 
Nothing has come to our attention that the 
information provided to us was inconsistent, 
inaccurate and unreliable, or that the Report 
is not a faithful description of JKH’s reported 
sustainability activities for the reporting period. 
Reliability
The accuracy and comparability of information 
presented in the report, as well as the quality of 
underlying data management systems.
JKH uses a data management software 
to capture and analyse data related to its 
sustainability performance for its material 
topics from all operational sites on a quarterly 
INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT ON  
NON-FINANCIAL REPORTING
2 	  The DNV Code of Conduct is available on request from www.dnv.com

295
Supplementary Information
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
basis and performs regular internal audits. 
The majority of data and information verified 
(remote assessment considering pandemic 
situation) based on DNV sampling plan for 
sampled sites and aggregated at corporate 
level, were found to be fairly accurate and 
reliable. Some of the data inaccuracies 
identified during the verification process 
were found to be attributable to transcription, 
interpretation and aggregation errors and the 
errors have been identified, communicated 
and corrected.
Nothing has come to our attention to 
suggest that the Report does not meet the 
requirements related to the Principle of 
Reliability.
Additional principles as per DNV 
VeriSustain
Completeness
How much of all the information that has been 
identified as material to the organisation and its 
stakeholders is reported?
The Report brings out the key disclosure 
requirements of GRI Standards and the 
chosen disclosures of other frameworks to 
which JKH subscribes in terms of identified 
scope, boundary and time; further the Report 
brings out exclusions as per GRI Standard, 
where applicable without impacting the 
completeness of Report.
Nothing has come to our attention to 
suggest that the Report does not meet the 
requirements related to the Principle of 
Completeness.
Neutrality
The extent to which a report provides a balanced 
account of an organisation’s performance, 
delivered in a neutral tone.
The disclosures within the Report, related 
to sustainability issues and performances 
are presented in a neutral tone, in terms of 
content and presentation along with key 
concerns and challenges faced during the 
period. 
Nothing has come to our attention to 
suggest that the Report does not meet the 
requirements related to the Principle of 
Neutrality.
Statement of Competence and 
Independence 
DNV applies its own management standards 
and compliance policies for quality control, 
in accordance with ISO IEC 17021:2015 - 
Conformity Assessment Requirements for 
bodies providing audit and certification 
of management systems, and accordingly 
maintains a comprehensive system of quality 
control including documented policies and 
procedures regarding compliance with ethical 
requirements, professional standards and 
applicable legal and regulatory requirements. 
We have complied with the DNV Code of 
Conduct during the assurance engagement 
and maintain independence where required 
by relevant ethical requirements including 
the AA1000AS v3 Code of Practice. This 
engagement work was carried out by an 
independent team of sustainability assurance 
professionals. DNV was not involved in 
the preparation of any statements or data 
included in the Report except for this 
Assurance Statement and Management 
Report. DNV maintains complete impartiality 
toward stakeholders interviewed during the 
assurance process. DNV did not provide any 
services to JKH and its subsidiaries in the 
scope of assurance during 2020-21 that could 
compromise the independence or impartiality 
of our work.
For DNV GL Business Assurance Lanka Private Limited, Sri Lanka,
 
Vadakepatth Nandkumar
Lead Verifier 
DNV Business Assurance-India
Rohitha Wickramasinghe
Operations Manager 
DNV GL Business Assurance Lanka 
Private Limited, Sri Lanka
Bhargav Lankalapalli
Assurance Reviewer 
DNV Business Assurance-India
15th May 2021, Colombo, Sri Lanka.
DNV GL Business Assurance Lanka (Private) Limited is part of DNV GL – Business Assurance, a global provider of certification, verification, assessment 
and training services, helping customers to build sustainable business performance. www.dnv.com 

296   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
GROUP DIRECTORY
Sector
Company Name
Nature
Incorporated 
Year 
Addresses
Directors
Stated Capital & 
Effective Holding
TRANSPORTATION
Ports and Shipping
Mackinnons 
Mackenzie & Co 
(Shipping) Ltd
Shipping Agency 
representation & logistics 
services 
1973
(PB 359)
4, Layden Bastian Road, 
Colombo 1 
T. 2475423 
K.D.Weerasinghe,K C 
Subasinghe,  A.Z.Hashim 
LKR 5,000,000
100%
Maersk Lanka (Pvt) 
Ltd**
Shipping Agency 
representation & freight 
forwarding services
1992
(PV 2550)
Level 16, “Park Land” 33,  
Park Street, Colmbo 2
T. 0114794800
W.T.Ellawala, R.M.David, 
F.Dedenis, S.Bandara, 
Z.Muktha
LKR 10,000,000
30%
South Asia Gateway 
Terminals (Pvt) Ltd**
Ports & Shipping Services
1998
(PV 326)
Port of Colombo, P.O Box 141 
Colombo 1 
T. 24575509
K.N.J.Balendra-
Chairman, J.G.A.Cooray, 
K.D.Weerasinghe, 
N.W.Tambiah, 
K.C.Subasinghe, 
A.Z.Hashim, D.P.Gamlath, 
Yen-I Chang, S S Jakobsen, 
J.M.Bevis, M.Degryse,  
T.J.Smith, R.M.D.Ratnayake, 
D.P.M.T.Jayamanna
LKR 3,788,485,900
42.19%
Logistics
DHL Keells (Pvt) Ltd** International express courier 
services
1986
PV 1307
No. 148, Vauxhall Street, 
Colombo 2
T. 2304304 / 4798600
K.N.J.Balendra-Chairma 
A.Z. Hashim, S.P.Wall, 
N.N.B.Abdullah
LKR 20,000,020
50%
John Keells Logistics 
(Pvt) Ltd
Integrated supply chain 
management
2006
PV318
No. 117, Sir Chittampalam  
A. Gardiner Mawatha, 
Colombo 2. T. 2475574
K.D.Weerasinghe, 
A.Z.Hashim 
LKR. 200,000,000
100%
Logipark 
International (Pvt) 
Ltd
Integrated Supply Chain 
Management
2018
(PV 201610)
No. 117, Sir Chittampalam  
A. Gardiner Mawatha, 
Colombo 02. T. 2475574
A.Wanniarachchi  
K.C.Subasinghe , 
A.Z.Hashim 
LKR. 1,058,750,000
81.36%
Mack International 
Freight (Pvt) Ltd
International freight 
forwarding and clearing & 
forwarding
1980
(PV 831)
No. 11, York Street,  
Colombo 1. T. 7671671
K.D.Weerasinghe, 
K.C.Subasinghe, A.Z.Hashim
LKR.130,000,000
100%
Lanka Marine 
Services (Pvt) Ltd
Importer & supplier of heavy 
marine fuel oils
1993
(PV 475)
4, Leyden Bastian Road, 
Colombo 1. T. 2475410-421
A.Z.Hashim, 
K.D.Weerasinghe, 
D.P.Gamlath
LKR. 350,000,000
99.44%
Mackinnon 
Mackenzie & Co of 
Ceylon Ltd*
Foreign recruitment agents & 
consultants
1975
(PB 348)
No. 11, York Street,  
Colombo 1. T. 2475509
K.D.Weerasinghe, 
K.C.Subasinghe,  
A.Z.Hashim 
LKR. 90,000
100%
Saffron Aviation (Pvt) 
Ltd
Domestic air line operations
2012
(PV 84728)
No. 117, Sir Chittampalam  
A. Gardiner Mawatha, 
Colombo 2.
T. 2475502
J.G.A.Cooray-Chairman, 
K.D.Weerasinghe, 
A.Z.Hashim, B.A.B.Goonetilleke, 
K.Balasundaram, 
H.D.Abeywickrema
 LKR. 622,179,000
40%
Trans-ware Logistics 
(Pvt) Ltd*
Renting of storage space
1994
(PV 3134)
No. 11, York Street, 
Colombo 1. T. 2475545/539
K.C.Subasinghe, 
A.Z.Hashim, 
N.N.Mawilmada, 
K.D.Weerasinghe
 LKR. 220,000,080
100%
Air Lines
Mack Air (Pvt) Ltd
General sales agents for 
airlines in Sri Lanka
1980
(PV 868)
No. 11, York Street, 
Colombo 1 
T. 2475375/2475335
K.D.Weerasinghe, 
K.C.Subasinghe, A.Z.Hashim 
LKR. 12,500,000
100%
Mackinnons Travels 
(Pvt) Ltd 
IATA accredited travel 
agent and travel related 
services
1971
(PV 1261)
No. 186, Vauxhall Street, 
Colombo 2
T. 2318600
K.D.Weerasinghe, 
K.C.Subasinghe, A.Z.Hashim
LKR. 5,000,000
100%
Mack Air Services 
Maldives (Pte) Ltd*
General sales agents for 
airlines in the Maldives
2000
(C/I 35-2000)
4th Floor, STO Aifaanu 
Building, Boduthakurufaanu 
Magu, Male 20-05, 
Republic of Maldives
T. +9603334708 - 09
K.C.Subasinghe, 
A.Z.Hashim, S.Hameed, 
A.Shihab
 LKR. 677,892
49%
CONSUMER 
FOODS
Ceylon Cold Stores 
PLC
Manufacture & Marketing 
of Beverages and frozen 
confectionery and the 
holding company of JayKay 
Marketing
1926
(PQ 4)
No.117,Chittampalam A 
Gardiner Mawatha,  
Colombo 02
T. 2318798
K.N.J.Balendra- Chairman, 
J.G.A.Cooray, D.P.Gamlath, 
M.Hamza, S.T.Ratwatte, 
R.S.W.Wijeratnam, 
P.N.Fernando, 
K.C.Subasinghe
LKR 918,200,000
81.36%
The Colombo Ice 
Company (Pvt) Ltd
Manufacturing and 
Marketing of frozen 
confectionery
2016
(PV 113758)
No.117, Chittampalam  
A Gardiner Mawatha, 
Colombo 02. T. 2306000
P.N.Fernando, D.P.Gamlath
LKR.1,700,000,000
81.36%

297
Supplementary Information
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Sector
Company Name
Nature
Incorporated 
Year 
Addresses
Directors
Stated Capital & 
Effective Holding
John Keells Foods 
India (Pvt) Ltd*
Marketing of Branded meat 
and convenience food 
products
2008
(U15122MH
2008 FTC
180902)
Luthra and Luthra Chartered 
Accountants A 16/9, Vasant 
Vihar, New Delhi -110057, 
India
T. 0091 1142591823,  
0091 1126148048, 26151853, 
2614736 
Fax: +91-11-2614 5222
P.N.Fernando, D.P.Gamlath
LKR.220,294,544 
(INR 90,000,000)
88.63%
CONSUMER 
FOODS
Keells Food Products 
PLC
Manufacturer and 
distributor of Processed 
meat, breaded meat 
& convenience food 
products.
1982
(PQ 3)
P.O Box 10,No.16, 
Minuwangoda Road, Ekala 
Ja-Ela
T. 2236317/ 2236364
K.N.J.Balendra- 
Chairman, J.G.A.Cooray, 
D.P.Gamlath, S.De Silva, 
A.E.H.Sanderatne, 
I.Samarajiva, 
P.D.Samarasinghe , 
P.N.Fernando
LKR.1,294,815,000 
88.63%
RETAIL 
JayKay Marketing 
Services (Pvt) Ltd
Owns and Operates 
the "Keells" chain of 
supermarkets and "Nexus 
Mobile" loyalty card 
programme.
1980
(PV 33)
No.117, Chittampalam A 
Gardiner Mawatha, 
Colombo 02
T. 2316800
J.G.A.Cooray- Chairman,  
A.Wanniarachchi, 
K.C.Subasinghe , 
N.W.Tambiah
LKR.1,198,000,000
81.36%
John Keells Office 
Automation (Pvt) Ltd
Distributor/Reseller and 
Services Provider in Office 
Automation(OA), Retail 
Automation (RA) and 
Mobile Devices
1992
(PV 127)
Corporate Office: 90 Union 
Place, Colombo 2 
Technical Services:148, 
Vauxhall Street, Colombo 2
T. 2313000, 2431576, 
2445760
N.W.Tambiah, 
K.C.Subasinghe, 
D.P.Gamlath
LKR. 5,000,000
100%
LEISURE
Hotel Management
Cinnamon Hotel 
Management Ltd
Operator & marketer of resort 
hotels
1974
(PB 7)
No.117, Chittampalam  
A Gardiner Mawatha,  
Colombo 02
T. 2306600, 2421101-8
J.E.P.Kehelpannala, 
M.H.Singhawansa, 
M.R.Svensson, 
K.C.Subasinghe
LKR. 19,520,000
100%
Cinnamon Hotel 
Management 
International (Pvt) 
Ltd*
Operator & marketer of 
overseas hotels & resorts
2018
(PV 131788)
No.117 Chittampalam  
A Gardiner Mawatha,  
Colombo 02
J.E.P.Kehelpannala, 
M.H.Singhawansa, 
M.R.Svensson, 
K.C.Subasinghe
LKR. 500,000
100%
John Keells Hotels 
PLC*
Holding company of group 
resort hotel companies in 
Sri Lanka & Maldives
1979
(PQ 8)
No.117, Chittampalam  
A Gardiner Mawatha, 
Colombo 02
T. 2306600
K.N.J.Balendra–
Chairman, J.G.A.Cooray, 
S.Rajendra, M.R.Svensson, 
J.E.P.Kehelpannala, 
M.H.Singhawansa, 
T.L.F.W Jayasekera, 
A.K.Moonesinghe, 
Dr.K.Gunasekera
LKR.9,500,246,939
80.32%
Sentinel Realty (Pvt) 
Ltd**
Investment company for 
Hotel Development land
2011
(PV 80706)
No.117, Chittampalam  
A Gardiner 
Mawatha,Colombo 02
T. 2306600
B.A.B.Goonetilleke- 
Chairman, 
C.L.P.Gunewardane, 
N.N.Mawilmada, 
K.Balasundaram
LKR. 132,288,080
40.16%
City Hotels
Asian Hotels and 
Properties PLC - 
Cinnamon Grand.
Owner & operator of the five 
star city hotel "Cinnamon 
Grand"
1993
(PQ 2)
77, Galle Road, Colombo 3
T. 2437437 /2497206
K.N.J.Balendra - 
Chairman/ - Managing 
Director, J.G.A.Cooray,  
C.L.P.Gunawardane, 
S.Rajendra,  M.R.Svensson, 
C.J.L.Pinto, J.Durairatnam, 
A.S De Zoysa
LKR.3,345,118,012
78.56%
Capitol Hotel 
Holdings Ltd**
Developer of City Business 
Hotels
2012
(PB 5013)
No.117, Chittampalam  
A Gardiner Mawatha, 
Colombo 02
T. 2306000
M.R.Svensson , 
K.C.Subasinghe, 
M.S.Weerasekera-Chairman, 
W.R.K.Wannigama, 
D.A.Kannangara, 
M.D.R.Gunatilleke, 
L.C.H.Leow, A.J.Pathmarajah
LKR. 1,168,800,100
19.47%
Trans Asia Hotels PLC Owner & operator of 
the five star city hotel 
"Cinnamon Lakeside".
1981
(PQ 5)
No. 115, Sir Chittampalam  
A Gardiner Mawatha, 
Colombo 02
T. 2491000
K.N.J.Balendra-Chairman, 
J.G.A.Cooray, S.Rajendra, 
C.L.P.Gunawardane, 
M.R.Svensson, 
N.L.Goonaratne, C.J.L.Pinto, 
E.H.Wijenaike, J.C.Ponniah
LKR.1,112,879,750
82.74%

298   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
GROUP DIRECTORY
Sector
Company Name
Nature
Incorporated 
Year 
Addresses
Directors
Stated Capital & 
Effective Holding
LEISURE
Resort Hotels - Sri Lanka
Ahungalla Holiday 
Resorts (Pvt) Ltd*
Owner of real estate
2012
(PV 85046)
No.117, Chittampalam  
A Gardiner Mawatha, 
Colombo 02
T. 2306000
C.L.P.Gunawardane, 
K.C.Subasinghe,  
M.H.Singhawansa, 
M.R.Svensson
LKR. 133,490,000
80.32%
Beruwala Holiday 
Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
Owner & operator of 
"Cinnamon Bey" in 
Beruwala
2009
(PV 69678)
Moragolla Beruwala
T. 2306600, 034 2297000
C.L.P.Gunawardane, 
K.C.Subasinghe, 
M.H.Singhawansa, 
M.R.Svensson  
LKR. 2,338,150,000
79.78%
Ceylon Holiday 
Resorts Ltd -Bentota 
Beach Hotel 
Owner & operator of 
"Cinnamon Bentota Beach" 
in Bentota 
1966
(PB 40)
Galle Road, Bentota
T. 034 2275176 / 034 
2275266
S.Rajendra, 
C.L.P.Gunawardane,  
M.H.Singhawansa, 
M.R.Svensson  
LKR.2,845,469,318
79.60%
Habarana Lodge Ltd Owner & operator of 
"Cinnamon Lodge" in 
Habarana
1978
(PB 38)
P.O Box 2, Habarana
T. 066 2270011-2/ 066 
2270072
S.Rajendra, 
C.L.P.Gunawardane,  
M.H.Singhawansa, 
M.R.Svensson
LKR.341,555,262
78.99%
Resort Hotels - Sri Lanka
Habarana Walk Inn 
Ltd
Owner & operator of 
"Habarana Village by 
Cinnamon" in Habarana
1973
(PB 33)
P.O Box 1, Habarana
T. 066 2270046-7/  
066 2270077
C.L.P Gunawardane, 
K C.Subasinghe, 
M H Singhawansa,
M R Svensson
LKR. 126,350,000
79.34%
Hikkaduwa Holiday 
Resorts (Pvt) Ltd 
Owner & operator of "Hikka 
Tranz by Cinnamon" in 
Hikkaduwa
2010
(PV 71747)
P.O Box 1, Galle Road , 
Hikkaduwa
T. 091 2298000
C.L.P.Gunawardane, 
K.C.Subasinghe,  
M.H.Singhawansa, 
M.R.Svensson
LKR.1,062,635,460
79.60%
Indra Hotel and 
Resorts (Pvt) Ltd*
Owner of Cinnamon Red 
Kandy
2017
(PV 124247)
No. 273, Katugastota Road, 
Kandy
T. 081 2234346
Y.S.H.I.K.Silva, Y.S.H.R.S.Silva, 
Y.S.H.H.K.Silva, S.Rajendra , 
C.L.P Gunawardane
LKR.1,051,400,493
32.13%
International Tourists 
and Hoteliers Ltd*
Owner of  Cinnamon Bey
1973
(PB 17)
No.117, Chittampalam  
A Gardiner Mawatha, 
Colombo 02
T. 2306600, 2421101- 8
C.L.P.Gunawardane, 
K.C.Subasinghe,  
M.H.Singhawansa, 
M.R.Svensson
LKR. 1,939,760,925
79.78%
Kandy Walk Inn Ltd
Owner & operator of 
"Cinnamon Citadel" in Kandy
1979
(PB 395)
No.124, Srimath Kuda 
Ratwatte Mawatha, Kandy
T. 081 2234365-6/ 
081 2237273-4
C.L.P.Gunawardane, 
K.C.Subasinghe,  
M.H.Singhawansa, 
M.R.Svensson 
LKR. 115,182,009
79.03%
Nuwara Eliya Holiday 
Resorts (Pvt) Ltd*
owner of real estate
2014
(PV98357)
No.117, Chittampalam  
A Gardiner Mawatha, 
Colombo 02
T. 2306000
C.L.P.Gunawardane, 
K.C.Subasinghe,  
M.H.Singhawansa, 
M.R.Svensson
LKR.325,024,820
80.32%
Rajawella Hotels 
Company Ltd*
Owner of real estate
1992
(PB 92)
No.117, Chittampalam  
A Gardiner Mawatha, 
Colombo 02
T. 2306000
C.L.P.Gunawardane, 
K.C.Subasinghe,  M.H 
Singhawansa, M.R.Svensson
LKR.35,701,762
80.32%
Resort Hotels Ltd*
Owner of real estate
1978
(PB 193)
No.117,Chittampalam  
A Gardiner Mawatha, 
Colombo 02
T. 2306780, 2421101-8
C.L.P.Gunawardane, 
K.C.Subasinghe,  
M.H Singhawansa , 
M.R.Svensson
LKR.8,849,150
79.60%
Trinco Holiday 
Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
Owner & Operator of 
"Trinco Blu by Cinnamon" in 
Trincomalee
2009
(PV 69908)
Alles Garden, Uppuvelli, 
Sampathiv Post
T. 026 2222307 /  
026 2221611
C.L.P.Gunawardane, 
K.C.Subasinghe,  M.H 
Singhawansa, M.R.Svensson
LKR.357,000,000
80.32%
Trinco Walk Inn Ltd*
Owner of Real Estate
1984
(PB 168)
Alles Garden, Uppuveli, 
Sampathiv Post, Trincomalee
T. 026 2222307 /  
011 2306600
C.L.P.Gunawardane, 
K.C.Subasinghe,  M.H 
Singhawansa, M.R.Svensson
LKR.119,850,070
80.32%
Wirawila Walk Inn 
Ltd*
Owner of Real Estate
1994
(PB 89)
No.117, Chittampalam  
A Gardiner Mawatha, 
Colombo 02
T. 2306780, 2421101-8
C.L.P.Gunawardane, 
K.C.Subasinghe, 
M.H.Singhawansa
LKR.20,734,150
80.32%
Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd Owner & operator of 
"Cinnamon Wild" in Yala
1999
(PV 2868)
P.O Box 1, Kirinda, 
Tissamaharama
T. 047 2239449-52
M.A.Perera -Chairman, 
C.L.P.Gunawardane, 
S.Rajendra, 
M.H.Singhawansa, J.A.Davis, 
M.R.Svensson, N.W.Tambiah
LKR.319,427,600
75.33%

299
Supplementary Information
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Sector
Company Name
Nature
Incorporated 
Year 
Addresses
Directors
Stated Capital & 
Effective Holding
LEISURE
Resort Hotels - Maldives
Fantasea World 
Investments (Pte) Ltd 
Owner & operator of 
"Cinnamon Hakuraa Huraa" 
in Maldives
1997
(C 143/97)
2nd Floor, H.Maizan Building, 
Sosun Magu, Male,  
Republic of Maldives
T. 00960 6720014 / 00960 
6720064 / 00960 6720065
C.L.P.Gunawardane, 
S.Rajendra, 
J.E.P.Kehelpannala- 
Managing Director, 
M.H.Singhawansa, 
M.R.Svensson
LKR. 341,573,190
80.32%
John Keells Maldivian 
Resorts (Pte) Ltd
Hotel holding company in 
the Maldives
1996
(C 208/96)
2nd Floor, H.Maizan Building, 
Sosun Magu, Male, Republic 
of Maldives
T. 00960 3329083 / 00960 
3304601 / 00960 3313738
J.E.P.Kehelpannala- 
Managing Director, 
S.Rajendra, 
C.L.P.Gunawardane, 
M.H.Singhawansa, 
M.R.Svensson
LKR.3,978,671,681
80.32%
Tranquility (Pte) Ltd
Owner and operator of 
"Cinnamon Dhoinveli" in 
Maldives
2004
(C 344/2004)
2nd Floor, H.Maizan Building, 
Sosun Magu, Male, Republic 
of Maldives
T. 009606640055 / 
009606640012
C.L.P.Gunawardane, 
S.Rajendra, 
J.E.P.Kehelpannala- 
Managing Director,  
M.H.Singhawansa , 
M.R.Svensson
 LKR.552,519,608
80.32%
Travel Club (Pte) Ltd
Operator of "Cinnamon 
Ellaidhoo" in Maldives
1992
(C 121/92)
2nd Floor, H.Maizan Building, 
Sosun Magu, Male, Republic 
of Maldives
T. 00960 6660839 / 00960 
6660663 / 00960 6660664
C.L.P.Gunawardane, 
S.Rajendra & 
J.E.P.Kehelpannala- 
Managing Director, 
M.H.Singhawansa, 
M.R.Svensson
LKR. 143,172,000
80.32%
Destination Management
Cinnamon Holidays 
(Pvt) Ltd
Service providers of Inbound 
and Outbound Tours
2015
(PV 101005)
No.117, Chittampalam A 
Gardiner Mawatha, Colombo 
02
T. 2306000
C.L.P.Gunawardane, 
K.C.Subasinghe,  M.H 
Singhawansa, M.R.Svensson
LKR.200,000
80.32%
Serene Holidays 
(Pvt) Ltd
Tour operators
2006
(U63040MH
2006PTC
164985)
110, Bldg 2, Rolex Shopping 
Centre Premises, CHS Ltd, 
STN Road, NR Prashant Hotel, 
Goregoan (W), Mumbai, 
Mumbai City,  
Maharashtra, 400062
T. 091-22 42105210 99
K.C.Subasinghe, 
K.O.Agrawal
LKR.6,492,000
98.35%
Walkers Tours Ltd
Inbound tour operators
1969
(PB 249)
No.117, Chittampalam  
A Gardiner Mawatha, 
Colombo 02. T. 2306306
S.Rajendra, 
C.L.P.Gunawardane,  
I.N.Amaratunga
LKR. 51,374,200
98.51%
Whittall Boustead 
(Travel) Ltd
Inbound tour operators
1977
(PB 112)
No.117, Chittampalam  
A Gardiner Mawatha, 
Colombo 02. T. 2306746
S.Rajendra , 
C.L.P.Gunawardane, 
I.N.Amaratunga
LKR. 250,410,000
100%
PROPERTY
Property Development
Asian Hotels and 
Properties PLC - 
Crescat. Boulevard, 
The Monarch, The 
Emperor. 
Developer of 'Crescat 
Residencies', 'The Monarch' 
& 'The Emperor' Residential 
Towers Developer and 
manager of 'Crescat 
Boulevard ' shopping Mall
1993
(PQ 2)
No.89, Galle Road,  
Colombo 3
T. 0112152100
K.N.J.Balendra-
(Chairman/Managing 
Director), J.G.A.Cooray, 
C.L.P.Gunawardane, 
S.Rajendra,  M.R.Svensson, 
C.J.L.Pinto, J.Durairatnam, 
A.S De Zoysa
LKR. 3,345,118,012
78.56%
British Overseas (Pvt) 
Ltd
Developer of "7th Sense" 
Residential Tower
2011
(PV 80203)
No.186, Vauxhall Street,  
Colombo 02
T. 0112152100
N.W.R.Wijewantha, 
K.C.Subasinghe, 
N.N.Mawilmada, 
S.P.G.N.Rajapakse, 
D.P.Gamlath
 LKR.1,000
61%
Braybrooke 
Residential 
Properties (Pvt) Ltd* 
Investor of Braybrooke 
Residential Towers (Pvt) Ltd
1998
(PV19165)
No.186, Vauxhall Street,  
Colombo 02
T. 0112152100
Y.S.H.R.S.Silva-Chairman, 
S.Rajendra, K.C.Subasinghe, 
N.N.Mawilmada, 
D.P.Gamlath, Y.S.H.I.K.Silva, 
Y.S.H.H.K Silva, 
C.P.Palansuriya
LKR.1,403,970,000
50%
Braybrooke 
Residential Towers 
(Pvt) Ltd*
Developer of 'TRI-ZEN' 
Residential Towers
2017
(PV128387)
No.186, Vauxhall Street,  
Colombo 02
T. 0112152100
K.N.J.Balendra, 
Y.S.H.R.S.Silva-Chairman, 
J.G.A.Cooray, S.Rajendra, 
N.N.Mawilmada, 
Y.S.H.I.K.Silva, A.D.B.Talwatte, 
C.P.Palansuriya
LKR. 3,636,900,000
50%

300   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
GROUP DIRECTORY
Sector
Company Name
Nature
Incorporated 
Year 
Addresses
Directors
Stated Capital & 
Effective Holding
PROPERTY
Property Development
Glennie Properties 
(Pvt) Ltd*
Property Development
2012
(PV 84278)
No.186, Vauxhall Street,  
Colombo 02
T. 0112152100
K.C.Subasinghe, 
N.N.Mawilmada, 
D.P.Gamlath, 
N.W.R.Wijewantha
LKR 163,861,400
100%
J K Land (Pvt) Ltd*
Investment Company for 
Property Sector
2012
(PV 84272)
No.186, Vauxhall Street,  
Colombo 02
T. 0112152100
N.W.R.Wijewantha, 
K.C.Subasinghe, 
N.N.Mawilmada
LKR. 23,027,602,460
100%
J K Thudella 
Properties (Pvt) Ltd*
Owner of Real Estates
2018
(PV 129825)
No.186, Vauxhall Street,  
Colombo 02
T. 0112152100
N.W.R.Wijewantha, 
N.N.Mawilmada,
 LKR. 453,467,620
100%
John Keells 
Properties Ja-Ela 
(Pvt) Ltd 
Developer & Manager of ' 
K-Zone Ja-Ela' Shopping Mall
2010
(PV 76068)
No.186, Vauxhall Street,  
Colombo 02
T. 0112152100
N.W.R.Wijewantha, 
K.C.Subasinghe, 
N.N.Mawilmada
 LKR.954,360,000
100%
John Keells 
Residential 
Properties (Pvt) Ltd
Developer of "On320" 
Residential Towers
2010
(PV 75050)
No.186, Vauxhall Street,  
Colombo 02
T. 0112152100
N.W.R.Wijewantha, 
K.C.Subasinghe, 
N.N.Mawilmada
 LKR. 925,200,000
100%
J K Property 
Development (Pvt) 
Ltd *
Property Development
2018
(PV 130036)
No.186, Vauxhall Street,
Colombo 02
T. 0112152100
N.W.R.Wijewantha, 
K.C.Subasinghe, 
N.N.Mawilmada
LKR. 1,054,056,800
100%
Keells Realtors Ltd*
Owner of Real Estates
1977
(PB 90)
No.186, Vauxhall Street,  
Colombo 02
T. 0112152100
N.W.R.Wijewantha, 
K.C.Subasinghe, 
N.N.Mawilmada,
LKR.75,000,000
95.81%
Mackinnons Keells 
Ltd*
Rental of office spaces
1952
(PB 8)
No. 4, Layden Bastian Road, 
Colombo 1
T. 2152100
K.M.Thanthirige, 
N.W.R Wijewantha, 
N.N.Mawilmada
LKR.327,800,000
100%
Rajawella Holdings 
Ltd
Operates an 18 hole, Donald 
Street Designed Golf Course 
in Digana
1991
(PB27)
P O Box 7, Rajawella, Kandy
T. 0112152100
K.N.J.Balendra-Chairman, 
J.G.A.Cooray, S.Rajendra, 
N.N.Mawilmada, 
C.B.Thornton (Alt. 
C.J.Holloway), G.R.Bostock 
Kirk (Alt. E.C.Oxlade), 
S.E.Captain (R.S.Captain)
LKR 784,690,140
49.85%
Vauxhall Land 
Developments (Pvt) 
Ltd*
Owner of Real Estates
2017
(PV125587)
No.186, Vauxhall Street,  
Colombo 02
T. 0112152100
K.N.J.Balendra-
Chairman, J.G.A.Cooray, 
N.N.Mawilmada, 
G.R.Chambers, 
N.W.R.Wijewantha
LKR. 21,716,553,910
100.00%
Waterfront Properties 
(Pvt) Ltd
Developer of Hotels, 
Apartments, offices & 
Shoping Malls
2011
(PV 82153)
No.186, Vauxhall Street, 
Colombo 02
T. 0112152100
K N J Balendra - Chairman, 
J G A Cooray, S Rajendra , N 
N Mawilmada
LKR 57,849,198,450
97.96%
Whittall Boustead 
(Pvt) Ltd - Real Estate 
Division*
Renting of office space
1958
(PV 31)
No.186, Vauxhall Street, 
Colombo 02
T. 0112152100
N.W.R.Wijewantha, 
K.C.Subasinghe, 
N.N.Mawilmada, 
LKR.99,188,800
100%
FINANCIAL SERVICES 
Fairfirst Insurance 
Ltd**
Providers of Non Life 
insurance solutions
2014
(PB 5180)
Access Towers II, 14th Floor, 
No: 278/4, Union Place, 
Colombo 02
T. 0112 428 428
R.Athappan-Chairman, 
C.Ratnaswami, 
A.S.Wijesinha, 
C.D.Wijegunawardene, 
S.Malhotra, S.Jha,  
J.P.Gomes
LKR.3,131,949,000
19.80%
John Keells Stock 
Brokers (Pvt) Ltd
Share broking services
1979
(PV 89)
No. 186, Vauxhall Street,  
Colombo 02
T. +94(0)11230 6250, 
+94(0)11234 2066 -7
S.Rajendra,  D.P.Gamlath, 
R.S.Cader
 LKR. 57,750,000
90.04%
Nations Trust Bank 
PLC**
Commercial banking and 
leasing operations
1999
(PQ 118)
No. 242, Union Place, 
Colombo 2
T.114313131
J.G.A.Cooray-Chairman, 
K.O.V.S.M.S.Wijesinghe, 
R.S.Cader, J.C.A.D'Souza, 
R.D Rajapaksa, N.I.R.De 
Mel, S.Maheshwari, 
S.L.Sebastian, 
C.H.A.W.Wickramasuriya, 
A.R.Fernando, P.Talwatte
LKR.9,408,135,000
32.57%
Union Assurance PLC Providers of Life insurance 
solutions
1987
(PQ 12)
No.20, St. Michaels' Road,  
Colombo 03
T. #1330
K.N.J.Balendra -Chairman, 
S.Rajendra, D.P.Gamlath, 
D.H.Fernando, 
S.A.Appleyard,  W.M De 
Fonseka Arsakularatne
LKR.1,000,000,000
90%

301
Supplementary Information
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Sector
Company Name
Nature
Incorporated 
Year 
Addresses
Directors
Stated Capital & 
Effective Holding
OTHERS
IT 
Services
John Keells 
Information 
Technology (Pvt) Ltd 
Software services
1998
(PV 652)
No. 148, Vauxhall Street,  
Colombo 02.
T. 2300770-77
J.G.A.Cooray -Chairman, 
K.D.Weerasinghe, 
R.Shanmuganathan
LKR. 96,500,000
100%
IT Enabled
Services
InfoMate (Pvt) Ltd 
IT enabled services
2005
(PV 921)
No.4, Leyden Bastian Road, 
Colombo 1 
T. (94) 112149700
K.D.Weerasinghe, 
R.Shanmuganathan
LKR.20,000,000
100%
John Keells BPO 
Holdings (Pvt) Ltd*
Holding company of BPO 
group companies
2006
(C 60882)
IFS Court, 28, Cybercity, 
Ebene, Mauritius
T. (230) 467 3000
Z.H.Niamut, K.Peerbocus, 
K.D.Weerasinghe, 
K.C.Subasinghe
LKR.1,988,300,000
100%
John Keells BPO 
International (Pvt) 
Ltd*
Investment holding 
company
2007
(C 070137)
IFS Court, 28, Cybercity, 
Ebene, Mauritius
T. (230) 467 3000
Z.H.Niamut, K.Peerbocus, 
K.D.Weerasinghe, 
K.C.Subasinghe
LKR.1,616,700,008
100%
John Keells BPO 
Solutions Lanka (Pvt) 
Ltd*
BPO operations in Sri Lanka
2006
(PV 3458)
No.4, Leyden Bastian Road, 
Colombo 01 
T. (94) 2300770-77
K.D.Weerasinghe, 
K.C.Subasinghe, 
R.Shanmuganathan
LKR.335,797,260
100%
OTHERS
Plantation Services
John Keells PLC
Produce Broking and Real 
Estate Ownership
1960
(PQ 11)
No 186, Vauxhall Street,  
Colombo 02
T. 2306000
K.N.J.Balendra-
Chairman, J.G.A.Cooray, 
K.D.Weerasinghe, 
A.K.Gunawardhana, 
C.N.Wijewardene, 
B.A.I.Rajakarier, A.Z.Hashim
LKR.152,000,000
86.90%
John Keells (Teas) Ltd Manager eight bought leaf 
tea factories
1979
(PV 522)
No.117,Chittampalam A 
Gardiner Mawatha,  
Colombo 02  T. 2306518
K.D.Weerasinghe, 
K.C.Subasinghe, A.Z Hashim
 LKR. 120,000
100%
John Keells 
Warehousing (Pvt) 
Ltd
Warehousing of Tea and 
Rubber
2001
(PV 638)
No.93,1st Avenue, 
Muturajawela, Hendala, 
Wattala
T. 4819560
K.D.Weerasinghe, 
K.C.Subasinghe, A.Z.Hashim
 LKR.120,000,000
86.90%
Tea Smallholder 
Factories PLC
Owner and operator of 
Bought Leaf factories
1991
(PQ 32)
No.4, Leyden Bastian Road, 
Colombo 1
T. 2149994 / 2335880
K.N.J.Balendra–Chairman, 
J.G.A.Cooray, E.H.Wijenaike, 
A.S.Jayatilleke, 
S.K.L.Obeyesekere, 
A.K.Gunaratne, 
A.Goonetilleke, A.Z.Hashim
LKR.150,000,000
37.62%
Centre & Others
Facets (Pvt) Ltd*
Owner of real estate
1974
(PV1048)
No.117,Sir Chittampalam A 
Gardiner Mawatha,
Colombo 02  T. 2306000
K.M.Thanthirige,  
D.P.Gamlath
LKR.150,000
100%
J K Packaging (Pvt) 
Ltd*
Printing and packaging 
services provider for the 
export market
1979
(PV 1265)
No 148, Vauxhall street, 
Colombo 02
T. 2475308
K.C.Subasinghe, 
K.D.Weerasinghe,  
D.P.Gamlath
LKR.14,500,000
100%
John Keells Holdings 
PLC 
Group holding company & 
function based services
1979
(PQ 14)
No.117, Sir Chittampalam A 
Gardiner Mawatha, Colombo 
02
T. 2306000
K.N.J.Balendra-
Chairman, J.G.A.Cooray-
Deputy Chairman, 
M.A.Omar, D.A.Cabraal, 
A.N.Fonseka, M.P Perera, 
S.S.H.Wijayasuriya
LKR.62,881,295,320
98.05%
John Keells 
International (Pvt) 
Ltd*
Regional holding company 
providing administrative & 
function based services
2006
(PV 46)
No.117, Chittampalam A 
Gardiner Mawatha, Colombo 
02
T. 2306000 /2421101-9
D.P.Gamlath, K,M.
Thanthirige, N.W.Tambiah
LKR. 1,991,600,000
100%
John Keells 
Singapore (Pte) Ltd*
International trading services 1992
(199200499C)
No.16 Collyer Quay, Level 
21, Office Suit No.21-38, 
Singapore 049318
T. 65 63296409/ 65 
68189150/ 65 96346593
J.G.A.Cooray-Chairman, 
K.M .Thanthirige, 
K.C.Subasinghe, 
D.P.Gamlath, 
R.Ponnampalam
LKR.9,638,000
80%
Keells Consultants 
(Pvt) Ltd
Company secretarial services 
to the group
1974
(PB 3)
No.117, Chittampalam A 
Gardiner Mawatha, Colombo 
02
T. 2421101-9
K.M.Thanthirige, 
N.W.Tambiah, 
I.V.Gunasekera, 
C.Subasinghe
LKR.160,000
100%
Mortlake (Pvt) Ltd*
Investment company
1962
(PV 756)
No. 148, Vauxhall Street, 
Colombo 2
T. 2475308
K.M.Thanthirige, 
K.C.Subasinghe
LKR. 3,000
100%
* The company is a non-operational company/ investment company/ holding company or owner of real estate. 
** The company has not been considered for sustainability reporting as the Group does not exercise management control over the entity.

302   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
GRI - DISCLOSURE 207-4
COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING
Description
LKR 000
Reference
Page No
Sri Lanka
India
Mauritius Republic of
Maldives
Singapore
Total
a) 	 All tax jurisictions included in 
Consolidated Financial Statements
Note 21.10
242
b)
i.	
Names of the resident entities
Group 
Directory
296-301
ii. 	 Primary activities of the organization
Group 
Directory
296-301
iii. 	 Number of employees
13,226
 - 
 - 
604
 1 
 13,831 
iv. 	 Revenues from third-party sales
 124,969,713 
 - 
 - 
 2,724,202 
 -  127,693,915 
v. 	 Revenues from intra-group 
transactions with other tax 
jurisdictions
vi. 	 Profit/loss before tax
 8,809,372 
 (918)
 9,840 
 (3,385,942)
 12,814 
 5,445,166 
vii. 	 Tangible assets other than cash and 
cash equivalents
287,694,992
 - 
-
 39,742,236 
 188  327,437,416 
viii.	 Corporate income tax paid on a cash 
basis
Not 
Applicable
ix. 	 Corporate income tax accrued on 
profit/loss
2,179,135
 - 
 1,647 
 (12,115)
 673 
2,169,340
x. 	 Reasons for the difference between 
corporate income tax accrued on 
profit/loss and the tax due if the 
statutory tax rate is applied to profit/
loss before tax
Note 21.5
240
c)	 The time period covered by the 
information reported in Disclosure 
207-4.
Year ended 
31st March 
2021

303
Supplementary Information
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
GRI CONTENT INDEX
GRI Standard
Disclosure
Page number(s) and/ or URL(s)
Omission
Part Omitted
Reason
Explanation
GRI 101: Foundation 2016
GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016
Organisational Profile
102-1 Name of the organisation
3
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and 
services
8, 64
102-3 Location of headquarters
3
102-4 Location of operations
3
102-5 Ownership and legal form
3
102-6 Markets served
3, 8
102-7 Scale of the organisation
3, 47, 52
102-8 Information on employees and 
other workers
52-57
102-9 Supply chain
11 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf, 74, 83, 94, 107, 116, 124, 133 
102-10 Significant changes to the 
organisation and its supply chain
19-24
102-11 Precautionary Principle or 
approach
3 of Risks, Opportunities and Internal Controls at https://keells.com/
resource/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC-AR-2020_21-Risk.pdf
102-12 External initiatives
4, 165, 182
102-13 Membership of associations
https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC-
AR-2020_21-Profiles.pdf
Strategy
102-14 Statement from senior decision-
maker
9-18
Ethics and integrity
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and 
norms of behaviour
165
Governance
102-18 Governance structure
167
Stakeholder engagement
102-40 List of stakeholder groups
4-5 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality at 
https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC%20
AR%202020_21-Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
102-41 Collective bargaining 
agreements
57
102-42 Identifying and selecting 
stakeholders
4 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality 
at https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-
PLC%20AR%202020_21-Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
102-43 Approach to stakeholder 
engagement
4-5 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & 
Materiality at https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-
Holdings-PLC%20AR%202020_21-Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised
6 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality 
at https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-
PLC%20AR%202020_21-Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf

304   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
GRI CONTENT INDEX
GRI Standard
Disclosure
Page number(s) and/ or URL(s)
Omission
Part Omitted
Reason
Explanation
Reporting practice
102-45 Entities included in the 
consolidated financial statements
296-301
102-46 Defining report content and 
topic Boundaries
4-5, 6-7 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & 
Materiality at https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-
Holdings-PLC%20AR%202020_21-Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
102-47 List of material topics
6-7 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & 
Materiality at https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-
Holdings-PLC%20AR%202020_21-Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
102-48 Restatements of information
3-4 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & 
Materiality at https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-
Holdings-PLC%20AR%202020_21-Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
102-49 Changes in reporting
3-4 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & 
Materiality at https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-
Holdings-PLC%20AR%202020_21-Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
102-50 Reporting period
4
102-51 Date of most recent report
3 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality 
at https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-
PLC%20AR%202020_21-Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
102-52 Reporting cycle
3 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality 
at https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-
PLC%20AR%202020_21-Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
102-53 Contact point for questions 
regarding the report
IBC
102-54 Claims of reporting in 
accordance with the GRI Standards
4
102-55 GRI content index
303-310
102-56 External assurance
293-295
Material Topics
GRI 200: Economic Standard Series
Economic Performance 
GRI 103 
Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundary
6-7 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality at 
https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC%20
AR%202020_21-Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
103-2 The management approach and 
its components
4 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
103-3 Evaluation of the management 
approach
4 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
GRI 201: Economic 
Performance 2016
201-1 Direct economic value 
generated and distributed
286-287
201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations 
and other retirement plans
57
Indirect Economic Impacts 
GRI 103 
Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundary
6-7 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality at 
https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC%20
AR%202020_21-Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
103-2 The management approach and 
its components
4 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
103-3 Evaluation of the management 
approach
4 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf

305
Supplementary Information
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
GRI Standard
Disclosure
Page number(s) and/ or URL(s)
Omission
Part Omitted
Reason
Explanation
GRI 203: Indirect 
Economic 
Impacts 2016
203-1 Infrastructure investments and 
services supported
58
Procurement Practices
GRI 103 
Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundary
6-7 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality at 
https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC%20
AR%202020_21-Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
103-2 The management approach and 
its components
4 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
103-3 Evaluation of the management 
approach
4 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
GRI 204: 
Procurement 
Practices 2016
204-1 Proportion of spending on local 
suppliers
58
Anti-Corruption
GRI 103 
Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundary
6-7 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality at 
https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC%20
AR%202020_21-Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
103-2 The management approach and 
its components
7-10 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
103-3 Evaluation of the management 
approach
10 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
GRI 205: 
Anticorruption 
2016
205-1 Operations assessed for risks 
related to corruption
58
Tax
GRI 103 
Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundary
6-7 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & 
Materiality at https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-
Holdings-PLC%20AR%202020_21-Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
103-2 The management approach and 
its components
4 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
103-3 Evaluation of the management 
approach
4 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
GRI 207: Tax 2019
207-1 Approach to tax
23-24 of https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-
Holdings-PLC-AR-2020_21-Corporate-Governance.pdf
207-2 Tax governance, control, and risk 
management
23-24 of https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-
Holdings-PLC-AR-2020_21-Corporate-Governance.pdf
207-3 Stakeholder engagement and 
management of concerns related to 
tax
23-24 of https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-
Holdings-PLC-AR-2020_21-Corporate-Governance.pdf
207-4 Country-by-country reporting
302
GRI 300: Environment Standard Series
Energy 
GRI 103 
Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundary
6-7 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality at 
https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC%20
AR%202020_21-Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
103-2 The management approach and 
its components
5 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
103-3 Evaluation of the management 
approach
6 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf

306   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
GRI CONTENT INDEX
GRI Standard
Disclosure
Page number(s) and/ or URL(s)
Omission
Part Omitted
Reason
Explanation
GRI 302: Energy 
2016
302-1 Energy consumption within the 
organisation
47-48
302-4 Reduction of energy 
consumption
47-48
Water and Effluents 
GRI 103 
Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundary
6-7 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality at 
https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC%20
AR%202020_21-Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
103-2 The management approach and 
its components
5 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
103-3 Evaluation of the management 
approach
6 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
GRI 303: Water 
and Effluents 
2018
303-1 Interactions with water as a 
shared resource
5 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
303-2 Management of water 
discharge-related impacts
5 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
303-3 Water withdrawal 
47, 49
303-4 Water discharge
47, 50
 Biodiversity 
GRI 103 
Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundary
6-7 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality at 
https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC%20
AR%202020_21-Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
103-2 The management approach and 
its components
5-6 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
103-3 Evaluation of the management 
approach
6 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
GRI 304: 
Biodiversity 2016
304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, 
managed in, or adjacent to, protected 
areas and areas of high biodiversity 
value outside protected areas
105
Emissions 
GRI 103 
Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundary
6-7 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality at 
https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC%20
AR%202020_21-Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
103-2 The management approach and 
its components
5 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
103-3 Evaluation of the management 
approach
6 https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
GRI 305: 
Emissions 2016
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions
47-48
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG 
emissions
47-48
Effluents and Waste 
GRI 103 
Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundary
6-7 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality at 
https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC%20
AR%202020_21-Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
103-2 The management approach and 
its components
5-6 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
103-3 Evaluation of the management 
approach
6 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf

307
Supplementary Information
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
GRI Standard
Disclosure
Page number(s) and/ or URL(s)
Omission
Part Omitted
Reason
Explanation
GRI 306: Effluents 
and Waste 2016
306-3 Significant spills
73
Waste 
GRI 103 
Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundary
6-7 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & 
Materiality at https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-
Holdings-PLC%20AR%202020_21-Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
103-2 The management approach and 
its components
5-6 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
103-3 Evaluation of the management 
approach
6 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
GRI 306: 
Waste 2020
306-1 Waste generation and 
significant waste-related impacts
5-6 https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
306-2 Management of significant 
waste-related impacts
5-6 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
306-3 Waste generated
47,50-51
Environmental Compliance
GRI 103 
Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundary
6-7 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality at 
https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC%20
AR%202020_21-Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
103-2 The management approach and 
its components
5-6 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
103-3 Evaluation of the management 
approach
6 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
GRI 307: 
Environmental 
compliance 2016
307-1 Non-compliance with 
environmental laws and regulations
47
Supplier Environmental Assessment 
GRI 103 
Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundary
6-7 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & 
Materiality at https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-
Holdings-PLC%20AR%202020_21-Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
103-2 The management approach and 
its components
5-6 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
103-3 Evaluation of the management 
approach
6 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
GRI 308: Supplier 
Environmental 
Assessment 2016
308-1 New suppliers that were 
screened using environmental criteria
58
GRI 400: Social Standard Series
 Employment 
GRI 103 
Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundary
6-7 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality at 
https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC%20
AR%202020_21-Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
103-2 The management approach and 
its components
7-8 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
103-3 Evaluation of the management 
approach
10 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf

308   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
GRI CONTENT INDEX
GRI Standard
Disclosure
Page number(s) and/ or URL(s)
Omission
Part Omitted
Reason
Explanation
GRI 401: 
Employment 
2016
401-1 New employee hires and 
employee turnover
52, 55
Occupational Health and Safety
GRI 103 
Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundary
6-7 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality at 
https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC%20
AR%202020_21-Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
103-2 The management approach and 
its components
7-9 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
103-3 Evaluation of the management 
approach
10 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
GRI 403: 
Occupational 
Health and Safety 
2018
403-1 Occupational health and safety 
management system
8-9 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
403-2 Hazard identification, risk 
assessment, and incident investigation
8-9 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
403-3 Occupational health services
8-9 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
403-4 Worker participation, 
consultation, and communication on 
occupational health and safety
8-9 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
403-5 Worker training on occupational 
health and safety
8-9 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
403-6 Promotion of worker health
8-9 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
403-7 Prevention and mitigation 
of occupational health and safety 
impacts directly linked by business 
relationships
8-9 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
403-9 Work-related injuries
52, 57
Training and Education 
GRI 103 
Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundary
6-7 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality at 
https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC%20
AR%202020_21-Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
103-2 The management approach and 
its components
7-8 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
103-3 Evaluation of the management 
approach
10 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
GRI 404: Training 
and Education 
2016
404-1 Average hours of training per 
year per employee
52, 55-56
404-3 Percentage of employees 
receiving regular performance and 
career development reviews
52
Diversity and Equal Opportunity 
GRI 103 
Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundary
6-7 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality at 
https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC%20
AR%202020_21-Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
103-2 The management approach and 
its components
7-8 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
103-3 Evaluation of the management 
approach
10 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf

309
Supplementary Information
Group Highlights
Management Discussion & Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
GRI Standard
Disclosure
Page number(s) and/ or URL(s)
Omission
Part Omitted
Reason
Explanation
GRI 405: Diversity 
and equal 
opportunity 2016
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies 
and employees
53-54
Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 
GRI 103 
Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundary
6-7 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality at 
https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC%20
AR%202020_21-Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
103-2 The management approach and 
its components
7-8 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
103-3 Evaluation of the management 
approach
10 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
GRI 407: Freedom 
of association 
and collective 
bargaining 2016
407-1 Operations and suppliers 
in which the right to freedom of 
association and collective bargaining 
may be at risk
57
Child Labour 
GRI 103 
Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundary
6-7 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality at 
https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC%20
AR%202020_21-Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
103-2 The management approach and 
its components
7-10 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
103-3 Evaluation of the management 
approach
10 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
GRI 408: Child 
Labour 2016
408-1 Operations and suppliers at 
significant risk for incidents of child 
labour
52
Forced or Compulsory Labour
GRI 103 
Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundary
6-7 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & 
Materiality at https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-
Holdings-PLC%20AR%202020_21-Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
103-2 The management approach and 
its components
7-10 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
103-3 Evaluation of the management 
approach
10 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
GRI 409: Forced 
or Compulsory 
Labour 2016
409-1 Operations and suppliers at 
significant risk for incidents of forced 
or compulsory labour
52
Local Communities 
GRI 103 
Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundary
6-7 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality at 
https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC%20
AR%202020_21-Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
103-2 The management approach and 
its components
12-13 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
103-3 Evaluation of the management 
approach
13 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
GRI 413: Local 
communities 
2016
413-1 Operations with local community 
engagement, impact assessments, and 
development programs
58-63

310   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21
GRI Standard
Disclosure
Page number(s) and/ or URL(s)
Omission
Part Omitted
Reason
Explanation
Supplier Social Assessment 
GRI 103 
Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundary
6-7 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality at 
https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC%20
AR%202020_21-Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
103-2 The management approach and 
its components
11 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
103-3 Evaluation of the management 
approach
11 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
GRI 414: Supplier 
social assessment 
2016
414-1 New suppliers that were 
screened using social criteria
58
Customer Health and Safety
GRI 103 
Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundary
6-7 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality at 
https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC%20
AR%202020_21-Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
103-2 The management approach and 
its components
14 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
103-3 Evaluation of the management 
approach
14 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
GRI 416: 
Customer Health 
and Safety 2016
416-1 Assessment of the health and 
safety impacts of product and service 
categories
14 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
Marketing and Labelling 
GRI 103 
Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundary
6-7 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality at 
https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC%20
AR%202020_21-Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
103-2 The management approach and 
its components
14 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
103-3 Evaluation of the management 
approach
14 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
GRI 417: 
Marketing and 
Labelling 2016
417-1 Requirements for product and 
service information and labelling
58
417-3 Incidents of non-
compliance concerning marketing 
communications
58
Socioeconomic Compliance
GRI 103 
Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundary
6-7 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality at 
https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC%20
AR%202020_21-Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
103-2 The management approach and 
its components
14 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
103-3 Evaluation of the management 
approach
14 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2020_21.pdf
GRI 419: 
Socioeconomic 
Compliance 2016
419-1 Non-compliance with laws and 
regulations in the social and economic 
area
58
GRI CONTENT INDEX

311
NOTES

312   
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2020/21

Name of Company
John Keells Holdings PLC
Legal Form
Public Limited Liability Company
Incorporated in Sri Lanka in 1979
Ordinary Shares listed on the Colombo Stock Exchange
GDRs listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange
Company Registration No.
PQ 14
Directors
K N J Balendra - Chairman/CEO
J G A Cooray - Deputy Chairman/Group Finance Director
D A Cabraal
A N Fonseka
M A Omar
M P Perera
S S H Wijayasuriya 
Senior Independent Director
A N Fonseka 
Audit Committee
A N Fonseka - Chairman
D A Cabraal
M P Perera
Human Resources and Compensation Committee
D A Cabraal - Chairman
M A Omar
S S H Wijayasuriya
Nominations Committee
M A Omar - Chairman
K N J Balendra
M P Perera
S S H Wijayasuriya
Related Party Transaction Review Committee
M P Perera - Chairperson
D A Cabraal
A N Fonseka
Project Risk Assessment Committee
S S H Wijayasuriya - Chairman
K N J Balendra
J G A Cooray
M P Perera
Registered Office of the Company
117 Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha
Colombo 2, Sri Lanka
Telephone : +94 11 230 6000
Internet : www.keells.com
Email : jkh@keells.com
Secretaries
Keells Consultants (Private) Limited
117 Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha
Colombo 2, Sri Lanka
Telephone : +94 11 230 6245
Facsimile : +94 11 243 9037
Email : keellsconsultants@keells.com
Investor Relations
John Keells Holdings PLC
117 Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha
Colombo 2, Sri Lanka
Telephone : +94 11 230 6170
Facsimile : +94 11 230 6160
Email : investor.relations@keells.com
Sustainability, Enterprise Risk Management and  
Group Initiatives
186 Vauxhall Street, Colombo 2, Sri Lanka
Telephone : +94 11 230 6182
Facsimile : +94 11 230 6249
Email : sustainability@keells.com
Contact for Media
Corporate Communications Division
John Keells Holdings PLC
117 Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha
Colombo 2, Sri Lanka
Telephone : +94 11 230 6191
Email : jkh@keells.com
Auditors
Ernst & Young
Chartered Accountants
P.O. Box 101
Colombo, Sri Lanka
Bankers for the Company
Bank of Ceylon
Citibank N.A.
Commercial Bank of Ceylon
Deutsche Bank A.G.
DFCC Bank
Hatton National Bank
Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation
Nations Trust Bank
People’s Bank
Sampath Bank
Seylan Bank
Standard Chartered Bank
Depository for GDRs
Citibank N.A. New York
CORPORATE INFORMATION
Designed & produced by
Digital Plates & Printing by Softwave Printing and Publishing (Pvt) Ltd

www.keells.com
