THE STRENGTH OF 
FUNDAMENTALS
John Keells Holdings PLC
Annual Report 2021/22


John Keells Holdings PLC 
The John Keells Group has long been ranked as a corporate leader in Sri Lanka. Our business model is 
thoughtful and comprehensive, involving the continuous assessment of our social, environmental and 
economic impacts as we strive to deliver value to the many stakeholders we serve. 
With a heritage of over 150 years of local and regional operations, we have harnessed the corporate 
qualities we believe are vital for leadership; strong, dependable partnerships, the determination and 
talent of our people, deep financial resources and most importantly - an absolute commitment to 
business integrity and transparency in all that we do. 
Today, Sri Lanka is experiencing what may be its greatest challenge yet. Every citizen is under pressure 
arising from the political, social and economic turmoil the nation is undergoing, as the people call for 
better governance and accountability. We are saddened and empathise with the people’s hardships 
and echo the sentiments for improvements in the governance of our nation while doing all that we 
can to help our John Keells family and fellow citizens through these tumultuous times. 
Country or corporate, we believe that the foundations of good governance remain the same, including 
transparency, accountability, ethical conduct and respect for the rule of law while also embracing 
diversity, inclusivity and social responsibility. This has been the ethos that has driven us in all that we do. 
As a responsible corporate citizen, we pledge to play our part and take a proactive role in shaping and 
driving the nation’s economic recovery, to help build a sustainable and better future by embodying the 
'strength of fundamentals' to make our country shine again.
THE STRENGTH OF 
FUNDAMENTALS

2 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Contents
Group Highlights
3 
Introduction to the Report
5 
About Us
6 
Our Business Model
8 
Chairman's Message
19 
Investor Relations 
19 
Group Highlights
26 
Industry Group Highlights
Management Discussion and  
Analysis 
37 
External Environment
40 
Capital Management Review
41 
Financial and Manufactured 
Capital
51 
Natural Capital
56 
Human Capital
62 
Social and Relationship Capital
67 
Intellectual Capital
70 
Industry Group Review 
70 
Transportation
79 
Consumer Foods
90 
Retail
101 
Leisure
114 
Property
122 
Financial Services
129 
Other, including Information  
Technology and Plantation Services
136 
Outlook
158 
Strategy, Resource Allocation and  
 
Portfolio Management
165 
Share Information 
Governance
171 
Corporate Governance Commentary 
191 
Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder  
 
Engagement and Materiality
194 
Risks, Opportunities and Internal  
 
Controls
Financial Statements
197  Annual Report of the Board of Directors
202  The Statement of Directors'  
 
Responsibility
203  Independent Auditors' Report
206  Income Statement
207  Statement of Comprehensive Income
208  Statement of Financial Position
209  Statement of Cash Flows
210  Statement of Changes in Equity
212   Notes to the Financial Statements
Supplementary Information 
294 
History of the John Keells Group
295 
Decade at a Glance
296 
Economic Value Statement
298 
Indicative US Dollar Financial  
 
Statements
300 
Group Real Estate Portfolio
302 
Glossary
303 
Independent Assurance Statement on  
 
Non-Financial Reporting
306 
Group Directory
313 
Country by Country Reporting 
 
Disclosures
314 
GRI Content Index
323 
Notice of Meeting
325 
Form of Proxy
327 
Corporate Information
70
Transportation
79
Consumer Foods
90
Retail
101
Leisure
114
Property
122
Financial Services
129
Other, including 
Information Technology 
and Plantation Services
Chairman's  
Message
Investor 
Relations
Capital 
Management 
Review
Strategy, Resource 
Allocation and 
Portfolio Management
Corporate Governance 
Commentary
8
19
40
158
175
Further Reading Online
The Group has a variety of reporting formats to 
meet diverse stakeholder requirements.
www.keells.com/governance
 y
Director and Management Profiles
 y
Corporate Governance Commentary
 y
Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder 
Engagement and Materiality
 y
Risks, Opportunities and Internal Controls
 y
Articles of Association
 y
Progress Report UN Global Compact Initiatives

3
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Introduction to the Report
We are pleased to present our seventh Integrated Report in accordance 
with the International <IR> Framework of the International Integrated 
Reporting Council (IIRC). 
This Report reflects on:
 y
The value creation model of the Group, combining different forms of capitals in the short, 
medium and long-term
 y
Governance, risk management and sustainability frameworks entrenched within the John 
Keells Group
 y
Financial, operational, environmental and social review and results of the Group
In keeping this Report concise as possible and pertinent to the year under review, we have 
ensured that the commentaries in certain sections are limited to a helicopter view of the events 
and progress within the year, whilst the Group's standard policies, operating guidelines and 
management approaches are available on the corporate website. 
Scope and Boundary
The John Keells Annual Report 2021/22 is a reflection of the Group's integrated approach of 
management during the period from 1 April 2021 to 31 March 2022. Material events post this 
reporting period, up to the sign off date by the Board of Directors on 23 May 2022, have been 
included in this Report, ensuring a more relevant and to-date Report.
For the purpose of reporting its sustainability performance, all Group subsidiaries and equity 
accounted investees have been considered, barring companies in which the Group does not 
exercise significant management control, non-operational companies, managing companies, 
companies that rent out office spaces, investment companies and companies owning only land, 
which have been clearly identified in the reporting boundary specified in the Group Directory 
2021/22. The scope will also seek to report on companies over which it does not exercise 
significant management control, where relevant. 
Integrated Reporting and Guiding Principles
The Group has strived to deliver a comprehensive, balanced and relevant Report, while adhering 
to the recommendations of the IIRC. The seven guiding principles in integrated reporting, as 
depicted, have been given due consideration when preparing and presenting this Report. 
Conciseness
Reliability and 
completeness
Materiality
Consistency 
and comparability
Stakeholder 
relationships
Strategic focus and 
future orientation
Connectivity of 
information
Guiding Principles
of the 2021/22  
JKH Annual Report
Standards and Principles
Reporting 
 y
International <IR> Framework of the 
IIRC
Governance, Risk Management 
and Operations
 y
Laws and regulations of the Companies 
Act No. 7 of 2007 
 y
Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock 
Exchange (CSE) and subsequent 
revisions to date 
 y
Securities and Exchange Commission 
of Sri Lanka (SEC) Act No. 19 of 2021, 
including directives and circulars 
 y
Code of Best Practice on Corporate 
Governance (2013) jointly advocated 
by SEC and the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka) 
 y
Code of Best Practice on Corporate 
Governance (2017) issued by CA 
Sri Lanka, to the extent of business 
exigency and as required by the Group
 y
Code of Best Practices on Related Party 
Transactions (2013) advocated by SEC 
Financial Reporting
 y
Sri Lanka Accounting Standards 
(SLFRS/LKAS) issued by CA Sri Lanka
Sustainability Reporting
 y
This report has been prepared in 
accordance with the GRI Standards: 
Core option of reporting
 y
Aligned to United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals
 y
Operations in conformity with the 
Principles of the United Nations 
Global Compact 
 y
Environmental, Social and 
Governance (ESG) disclosures through 
the <IR> framework and operations in 
conformity with the Principles of the 
United Nations Global Compact 
The Report strives to deliver a balanced and relevant report that will bring clarity and detail to the complex task of reporting a year 
of diverse business operations across multiple sectors.

4 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Determining Materiality
Materiality analysis is a key process that enables the Group to define 
key triple bottom line issues that are of significance for businesses and 
stakeholders, both internal and external, in the short, medium and long-
term. Our focus on materiality is vital as we seek to drive performance, 
improve our sustainability framework and institutionalise the Group's 
governance philosophy at all levels. 
The Group conducts an independent external stakeholder engagement 
survey every three to four years in ascertaining material topics to its 
significant stakeholders. In addition, materiality is also assessed internally 
in ascertaining the topics material to the Group and fine-tuning and 
streamlining its strategy and processes to manage these material issues. 
The outcomes of these studies are prioritised using a materiality matrix, 
representing their level of significance to the Group and its external 
stakeholders, and are then disclosed as per clearly defined topics under the 
GRI Standards.
 A detailed discussion on determining materiality is available 
on the Corporate website at www.keells.com/governance
Contact With Stakeholders
The preparation of the Report took place in cooperation 
with stakeholders in order to improve transparency and 
accountability. Feedback is gathered through questionnaires, 
a dedicated mailbox, one-on-one meetings and stakeholder 
engagement fora. 
Email: investor.relations@keells.com
Tel: +94-112306170
Whilst the matrix, as illustrated, indicates the prioritisation of these 
material topics, the Group continues to assess its internal and external 
materiality and disclose the performance of such topics. Its reporting 
scope will be expanded as and when a topic becomes material to the 
Group and its stakeholders.
Information Verification and Quality Assurance
The Chairman-CEO, Deputy Chairman/Group Finance Director, Group 
Executive Committee and relevant management personnel are 
responsible for disclosures made in this Report. The Group makes every 
effort to ensure the credibility, reliability and integrity of the information 
presented in the Report. To this end, external assurance is also sought 
from independent auditors as outlined below.
The information contained in this Report has been reviewed, as 
applicable, by:
 y
The Board of Directors
 y
The Group Executive Committee
 y
Audit Committee of the Company
 y
An independent auditor confirming the accuracy of the annual 
financial statements
 y
An independent auditor confirming the accuracy of the non-
financial statements in this Report, and, that it has been prepared in 
accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option and International 
<IR> Framework 
Disclaimer for the Publication of Forecast Data 
The Report contains information about the plans and strategies of the 
Group for the medium and long-term and represents the management's 
view. The plans are forward-looking in nature and their feasibility 
depends on a number of economic, political and legal factors which are 
outside the influence of the Group and Company, including the situation 
of key markets, changes in tax, customs and environmental legislation 
and so forth. Given this, the actual performance of indicators in future 
years may differ from the forward-looking statements published in this 
Report. The reader is advised to seek expert professional advice in all 
such respects. 
As you navigate through the pages of this Report, you will find a 
relevant, transparent and noteworthy value proposition entrenched 
within the John Keells Group that strives to achieve the highest form of 
stakeholder satisfaction through sustainable value creation.
Navigating this Report
This Annual Report is available on our website: 
www.keells.com/resource/annual-report/John_Keells_
Holdings_PLC_AR_2021_22_CSE.pdf
Reference to other pages 
within the Report
Reference to further 
reading online
Details of CSR  
projects available on  
www.johnkeellsfoundation.com/
Reporting Guides
Financial and Manufactured 
Capital
Human Capital
Social and Relationship 
Capital
Natural Capital
Intellectual Capital
Capital Guides
Introduction to the Report
HIGH
LOW
Included in this Report  
and/or Company 
website
Need-based 
communication to 
relevant stakeholders
Importance to internal stakeholders
Importance to external stakeholders

5
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Centre Functions
 y
Corporate Communications
 y
Corporate Finance and 
Strategy
 y
Data and Advanced Analytics
 y
Group Business Process 
Review
 y
Group Finance and Group 
Insurance
 y
Group Human Resources
 y
Group IT
 y
Group Tax
 y
Group Treasury
 y
John Keells Foundation
 y
John Keells Research
 y
Legal and Secretarial
 y
New Business Development
 y
Social Entrepreneurship
 y
Sustainability, Enterprise  
Risk Management and Group 
Initiatives
About Us
John Keells Holdings PLC (JKH) is one of the largest listed companies 
on the Colombo Stock Exchange, with business interests primarily in 
Transportation, Consumer Foods, Retail, Leisure, Property and Financial 
Services. Started in the early 1870s as a produce and exchange broking 
business by two Englishmen, Edwin and George John, the Group has 
been known to constantly re-align, re-position and re-invent itself in 
pursuing growth sectors of the time. 
JKH was incorporated as a public limited liability company in 1979 and 
obtained a listing on the Colombo Stock Exchange in 1986. Having 
issued Global Depository Receipts (GDRs) which were listed on the 
Luxembourg Stock Exchange, JKH became the first Sri Lankan company 
to be listed overseas. 
The Group's investment philosophy is based on a positive outlook, 
bold approach, commitment to delivery and flexibility to change. JKH 
is also committed to maintaining integrity, ethical dealings, sustainable 
development and greater social responsibility in a multi-stakeholder 
context. JKH is a full member of the World Economic Forum and a 
Participant member of the UN Global Compact. 
The Holding Company of the Group, John Keells Holdings PLC, is based 
at 117, Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha, Colombo 2 and has 
offices and businesses located across Sri Lanka and the Maldives.
Other, including 
 Information Technology 
and Plantation Services
Information Technology
Plantation Services
Other
Financial Services
Insurance
Banking
Stockbroking
Consumer Foods
Beverages
Frozen Confectionery
Convenience Foods
Retail
Supermarkets
Office Automation
Leisure
Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts
Destination Management
Hotel Management
Property
Property Development
Real Estate
Transportation
Transportation
Ports and Shipping
Industry Groups and Sectors

6 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Our Business Model
VISION: Building businesses that are leaders in the region
Stakeholder returns and engagement
Fundamental forms of Capital deployed 
 
 
 
 
 
Value creation / preservation overtime 
 
Inputs
Value Creation Interventions and Returns
Processes and Frameworks
Activities
Financial and  
Manufactured 
Capital
 y
Shareholder funds and 
debt
 y
Cash flow from operations
 y
Land bank
 y
Machinery and operations
Corporate Governance Framework 
Human Resource Governance 
Integrated Risk Management Framework 
Information Technology Governance 
Tax Governance
Corporate Social Responsibility 
Group Policies
Mandatory regulatory frameworks 
Voluntary frameworks and mechanisms 
Sustainability Management Framework
Strategic, Resource Allocation and 
Portfolio Management 
Environmental, Social and Governance 
(ESG) Management 
Strategy Formulation and Decision-Making 
Stakeholder Management and Effective 
Communication 
JKH Code of Conduct 
Industry Groups
 y
Transportation
 y
Consumer Foods
 y
Retail
 y
Leisure
 y
Property
 y
Financial Services
 y
Other, incl. Information Technology 
and Plantation Services
 y
Effective and responsible investment of 
shareholder funds
 y
Business development activities
 y
Cost reduction initiatives
Natural 
Capital
 y
Energy
 y
Water
 y
Other natural resources
 y
Environmental impact assessment and mitigation 
of impacts
 y
Roll-out of carbon footprint and energy 
management initiatives
 y
Strengthening of water and waste management 
processes 
Human 
Capital
 y
Employee diversity
 y
Experience
 y
Skills and competencies 
 y
Leveraging on employee skills and expertise for 
business growth
 y
Training and development of employee cadre
 y
Performance management and appraisals
 y
Employee survey initiatives
 y
Structured career development programmes
Social and 
Relationship 
Capital
 y
Dedicated CSR team
 y
Strategic and sustainable 
community development
 y
Investor relations and 
stakeholder management
 y
Staff volunteerism
 y
Health and safety initiatives
 y
Investment in community and livelihood development
 y
Regular dialogue with investors, analysts and other 
stakeholders
 y
Social impact assessments
 y
Identification of key stakeholders and material aspects 
in relation to them
 y
Awareness creation and engagement of suppliers
 y
Social needs assessment based on SDGs/UNGC/
national agenda
Intellectual 
Capital
 y
Brand equity and 
stewardship
 y
Research and development
 y
Technological expertise
 y
Digital infrastructure
 y
Development of intangible infrastructure, 
processes and procedures to improve efficiency
 y
New product development
 y
Innovation
Values:  
Caring 
Excellence 

7
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Transformed Capital that produces stakeholder value
Value Derived
Outcomes
Alignment 
with SDGs
Outputs
Indicators as at 31 Mar 2022
 y
Shareholder returns and 
dividends
 y
Payments to other stakeholders
 y
Share price appreciation
 y
Financial stability
 y
Financial growth
 y
Creation of wealth
 y
Efficient disposal of all effluent 
and waste
 y
Reduction of carbon footprint
 y
Reduced resource consumption 
through better monitoring
 y
Sustainable natural resource 
utilisation
 y
Biodiversity preservation
 y
Staff motivation
 y
Talented and efficient workforce
 y
Job satisfaction
 y
Career progression
 y
Safe and equitable environment
 y
Alignment of workforce with Group 
vision
 y
Profitable businesses through 
improved productivity and efficiency
 y
Community skills development
 y
Well informed and sound 
investment decisions
 y
Better supplier/distributor and 
stakeholder relations
 y
Individuals and communities 
empowered with knowledge, skills 
and opportunities for a better future
 y
Brand visibility and reputation
 y
Strengthened supply chain
 y
Adherence to UN SDGs
 y
Patents
 y
Copyrights
 y
Evolving businesses to suit the ever 
changing, dynamic consumer
 y
An entity better prepared to  
face disruptive business models
 y
Efforts to strengthen transparency 
in Corporate Reporting is evident 
by JKH being placed first for the 
second consecutive year in the 
Transparency in Corporate Reporting 
(TRAC) Assessment by Transparency 
International Sri Lanka (TISL)
Rs.311 billion
71%
650,102
Rs.5.4 billion
0.53 MT
31%
Rs.718 billion
190
Rs.78 billion
25 hours
90%
25
10.61 m3
Rs.201 billion
67 : 33
Shareholder funds
Employee  
retention rate
Number of persons 
impacted by community 
engagements 
Value of intangible  
assets
Awards and accolades
Carbon footprint per 
Rs.million of revenue
Non-hazardous waste recycled/reused by Group 
companies and through third party contractors
Group assets
Injuries
Net debt (cash)
Average hours of 
training per employee
Proportion of purchases 
from suppliers within  
Sri Lanka
No. of start-ups under 
incubation
Water withdrawal  
per Rs.million of revenue
Market capitalisation
Male : Female  
staff ratio
Trust 
 Innovation 
Integrity
 y Transparency in Corporate Reporting (TRAC) 
Assessment by Transparency International Sri Lanka 
(TISL) 2021
 y LMD's Most Respected Entity 
 y LMD Top 100 Entities

8 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Chairman's Message
Dear Stakeholder,
I am pleased to present the Integrated Annual Report and the Financial Statements for the financial 
year ended 31 March 2022. I trust our Report will provide you with an in-depth understanding of 
the Group's value creation process and the strategies in place to manage the diverse portfolio of 
businesses towards driving sustainable growth, particularly in terms of navigating our businesses 
through the pandemic and the prevailing macroeconomic crisis in the country.
The Group reported a strong performance 
during the year, which was a significant 
improvement, as expected, over the previous 
year, with all businesses witnessing a robust 
recovery momentum as the pandemic 
related challenges dissipated towards the 
second half of the year. The performance 
of our businesses reached pre-COVID-19 
levels with business activity and consumer 
trends reverting to 'normal' on a sustained 
basis since the onset of the pandemic in 
early 2020. This positive momentum resulted 
in all sectors within the Group recording a 
strong growth in profits. The Group's Leisure 
businesses, in particular, recorded a significant 
turnaround in performance on account of the 
resumption in operations in Sri Lanka and the 
continued recovery in the Maldives. Recurring 
Group earnings before interest expense, 
tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) 
increased significantly by 152 per cent over the 
previous year to Rs.39.26 billion, driven by the 
turnaround in the Group's Leisure businesses, 
the commencement of revenue recognition 
at 'Cinnamon Life' and improved performance 
across all other business verticals. 
The positive momentum of the Group's 
performance during the year is largely on 
account of the COVID-19 pandemic being 
well contained in Sri Lanka, as a result of the 
successful vaccination drive where almost 
the entirety of the adult population is fully 
vaccinated. Whilst new variants have emerged 
globally, the risk of an outbreak of serious cases 
was contained given the high vaccination rates, 
including the administration of booster doses. 
The resumption of tourist arrivals to the country was very encouraging, where arrivals for the month 
of March 2022 crossed the 100,000 mark, which is almost at 50 per cent of pre-pandemic levels. The 
re-opening of the country for tourism is one of the key catalysts to drive the recovery of the economy, 
particularly in the context of the positive impact it will have on the significantly deteriorating external 
financing position of the country.
Although the pandemic related disruptions were less during the year, the Sri Lankan economy faced 
numerous challenges, particularly from the second half onwards. Notwithstanding the gradual 
recovery from the pandemic, the country and the Group had to contend with severe domestic 
macroeconomic pressures, primarily emanating from a deteriorating external financing position, 
which was subsequently exacerbated by political uncertainty and social unrest towards the fourth 
quarter. We are presently facing the country's most significant and challenging crisis – economically, 
politically and socially. The country witnessed a record depreciation of the Rupee from March 2022 
onwards, post the floating of the currency, due to the previously pegged exchange rate not being 
reflective of market rates, unprecedented rates of inflation, a scarcity of essential commodities, food 
and medicines, and disruptions to power supply, which has placed a significant burden on our 
businesses and the Sri Lankan populace, at large. 
Due to the aforementioned dissatisfaction on account of the shortages of essential items and power, 
there was an increasing trend of the general public participating in social movements in the form of 
peaceful gatherings and demonstrations. Unfortunately, the peaceful protests were disrupted causing 
retaliatory violence and uncertainty for a few days, as the political and social unrest reached a peak. 
The subsequent resignation of the Prime Minister from his post resulted in the Government being 
dissolved. At the time of writing this Message, the situation in the country is calm with some level 
of political stability with the appointment of a new Prime Minister and a commitment from most 
political parties to support progressive reforms and the necessary policies to deal with the economic 
situation in the country. We hope that all parties will work together in the national interest to resolve 
this current crisis. 
Given the perilous foreign currency reserves position of the country, in April 2022, the Government 
of Sri Lanka declared a pre-emptive measure of suspending the servicing of almost all of its external 
debt obligations, including international sovereign bonds, bi-lateral loans and facilities guaranteed by 
the Government. This measure was necessitated to enable use of the remaining reserves to secure 
and manage shortages of essential items in the country which has been one of the primary reasons 
for the peaceful protests. We note the positive developments in relation to the engagement with the 
International Monetary Fund (IMF) following the appointment of a new Governor of the Central Bank 
of Sri Lanka (CBSL), and the positive progress made thus far where technical discussions are in progress 
with expectations that a staff level agreement can be reached within a few months. As a precursor to an 
IMF programme, the Government has also initiated steps to prepare for a creditor negotiation process 
to restructure the country's foreign debts, whilst also engaging with supportive nations to secure bridge 
funding. Concurrently, the CBSL undertook an unprecedented policy rate hike of 700 basis points to 
curtail inflation and support the currency. We understand the necessary initial steps for economic 
recovery are being taken at this juncture and urge all key parties to have political stability and reach 
consensus on the critical next steps to ensure the actions required to revive the economy are taken in a 
decisive and expeditious manner following due process. 
The calls for good governance, accountability and transparency by the people of the country need be 
heeded to ensure the necessary reforms and changes are undertaken to achieve a sustainable solution 
for the country. Country or corporate, we believe that the fundamentals of good governance remain the 
same; transparency, accountability, ethical conduct and respect for the rule of law while also embracing 
diversity, inclusivity and social responsibility. As a responsible corporate with a heritage of operating 
in Sri Lanka for over 150 years, we will continue to play our role and contribute towards enabling the 
recovery of our economy at this pivotal juncture, leveraging on the 'Strength of Fundamentals'. 
As a responsible corporate 
with a heritage of 
operating in Sri Lanka for 
over 150 years, we will 
continue to play our role 
and contribute towards 
enabling the recovery of 
our economy at this pivotal 
juncture, leveraging on the 
'Strength of Fundamentals'.

9
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Summarised below are the key operational and financial highlights during the year under review.
 y
The Group witnessed a strong recovery momentum during the 
year under review with the recurring performance of most of our 
businesses reaching pre-COVID-19 levels. 
 y
Group revenue increased by 71 per cent to Rs.218.07 billion 
while recurring Group EBITDA increased by 152 per cent to 
Rs.39.26 billion. The significant growth in profits was driven by 
the turnaround in the Group's Leisure businesses, the revenue 
recognition at 'Cinnamon Life' and improved performance across 
all other business verticals.
 y
The Leisure industry group, in particular, recorded a significant 
turnaround in performance with a recurring EBITDA of Rs.3.78 
billion compared to the negative recurring EBITDA of Rs.3.59 billion 
in the corresponding year. 
 y
The Maldivian Resorts segment continued its strong recovery 
where the occupancy and average room rates at our hotels 
reached pre-pandemic levels. With the relaxation of travel 
restrictions, the Colombo Hotels and Sri Lankan Resorts segments 
recorded a significant turnaround, reporting a positive EBITDA and 
PBT in the fourth quarter. 
 y
Revenue recognition at 'Cinnamon Life' commenced during the 
year with the completion and commencement of the handing 
over of the residential and commercial units. The remainder of the 
project is scheduled for commencement of operations, in a phased 
manner, in the first half of the calendar year 2023. 
 y
The Group's Port business recorded an increase in profitability 
driven by volume growth and ancillary revenues whilst the 
Bunkering business recorded an increase in profitability driven by 
higher margins on account of the increase in global fuel prices and 
volumes. 
 y
The Retail industry group recorded an encouraging performance 
with same store sales growth driving profitability in the 
Supermarket business, whilst the Office Automation business 
recorded a strong increase in mobile phone volumes, although PBT 
was materially impacted on account of the sharp depreciation of 
the Rupee. 
 y
The Consumer Foods industry group continued its strong recovery 
momentum with all segments recording strong double-digit 
growth in volumes, with volumes reaching pre-pandemic levels. 
 y
The Insurance business recorded double digit growth in gross 
written premiums driven by a strong growth in regular new 
business premiums. The Banking business recorded an increase in 
profitability aided by loan growth, focused recovery efforts and cost 
management initiatives. 
 y
A private placement of JKH shares of the LKR equivalent of USD 
80 million to Asian Development Bank (ADB) was approved by the 
shareholders in December 2021. The first phase of the transaction 
amounting to the LKR equivalent of USD 50 million was concluded 
on 19 January 2022. 
 y
The USD 395 million loan at 'Cinnamon Life', which was due 
for repayment by July 2022, was refinanced in December 2021 
through a syndicated facility. The new facility comprises of a USD 
225 million term loan and a USD 100 million bridging facility for a 
six-month period to align with the maturity date of July 2022 under 
the original facility. 
 y
The conditions precedent stipulated in the build, operate and 
transfer (BOT) agreement of the WCT-1 project at the Port of 
Colombo, including work towards project design and costs 
and other structuring arrangements were met, and the site was 
handed over to the project company in February 2022 for the 
commencement of construction. 
 y
OCTAVE, the Group's Data and Advanced Analytics Centre 
of Excellence, worked on several 'use cases' in the Retail and 
Consumer Foods industry groups which were successfully piloted, 
scaled and deployed, with initial pilot projects indicating signs of 
significant value that can be unlocked from translating advanced 
analytics insights into business interventions and transformation.
 y
The Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DE&I) programme, under 
the brand 'ONE JKH', rolled-out many initiatives with the aim of 
increasing women participation in our workforce, providing career 
opportunities to persons with disabilities and being inclusive of the 
LGBTIQ+ community. 
 y
The Group's carbon footprint per million rupees of revenue 
decreased by 18 per cent and water withdrawn per million rupees 
of revenue decreased by 19 per cent.
Recurring EBITDA*
Rs.'000
2021/22
2020/21
Variance
Transportation
 6,140,923 
 3,610,416 
2,530,507
Consumer Foods
 3,484,778 
 3,317,535 
167,243
Retail
 7,549,338 
 5,522,678 
2,026,660
Leisure
 3,784,901 
 (3,588,464)
7,373,364
Property
 7,867,199 
 (17,348)
7,884,546
Financial Services
 5,023,608 
 3,644,923 
1,378,685
Other, including Information Technology and Plantation Services
5,407,909
3,081,916
2,325,993
Group
39,258,655
15,571,656
 23,686,999
*EBITDA includes interest income and the share of results of equity accounted investees which is based on the share of profit after tax but excludes all impacts from foreign 
currency exchange gains and losses, to demonstrate the underlying cash operational performance of businesses.

10 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Group Performance
For the financial year 2021/22, Group revenue 
increased by 71 per cent to Rs.218.07 billion 
while recurring Group EBITDA increased by 
152 per cent to Rs.39.26 billion, displaying the 
strong recovery momentum of the businesses. 
The recurring Group profit before tax (PBT) 
increased by 599 per cent to Rs.24.43 billion 
while the recurring profit attributable to equity 
holders of the parent increased by 685 per 
cent to Rs.20.41 billion for the financial year 
ended 31 March 2022. 
The Group maintained foreign currency cash 
holdings to meet its funding commitments 
which comprises of the funds earmarked for 
the equity infusions of the 'Cinnamon Life' 
project and the funds raised for the Group's 
investment pipeline via the debt drawdown 
from the IFC term loan facility and the private 
placement of ordinary shares to ADB. The 
performance of the Group was positively 
impacted by foreign currency exchange gains 
on its US Dollar denominated cash holdings 
at the Holding Company net of the USD 175 
million term loan facility from the International 
Finance Corporation (IFC), resulting from the 
steep depreciation of the Sri Lankan Rupee 
against the previous year.
It should be noted that the EBITDA for 2021/22 
includes one-off impairment charges in the 
Transportation and Property industry groups, 
which are more fully detailed in the ensuing 
section of this Message and the Group 
Consolidated Review section of the Report. 
The recurring EBITDA analysis below is post 
the elimination of these one-off impacts in 
order to demonstrate the performance of 
the core operations of the businesses. As the 
Annual Report contains discussions on the 
macroeconomic factors and its impact on our 
businesses as well as a detailed discussion 
and analysis of each of the industry groups, I 
will focus on a high-level summation of the 
performance of each industry group during 
the financial year 2021/22. 
Capital Raising 
As announced to the Colombo Stock 
Exchange in November 2021 and subsequent 
to shareholder approval in December 2021, 
the JKH Board resolved to raise funds through 
a private placement of ordinary shares, in two 
phases, for a maximum cumulative amount 
of the LKR equivalent of USD 80 million to 
Asian Development Bank (ADB). In January 
2022, Phase 1 of the above transaction was 
completed for a consideration of the LKR 
equivalent of USD 50 million, resulting in a 
post-issue dilution of 4.70 per cent. Whilst 
Phase 2 is for an investment amount of up 
to a maximum of the LKR equivalent of USD 
30 million, the cumulative maximum dilution 
post-issue of Phase 2 will be 7.31 per cent. The 
proceeds from the transaction will be utilised 
by JKH for the purpose of balance sheet 
strength and agility to support its investments 
in an optimal manner. The Group will engage 
with ADB to obtain technical expertise for 
its environmental, social and governance 
(ESG) strategy, capacity building for climate 
resilience and farmer assistance initiatives.
The 'Cinnamon Life' Project 
The year under review marks the 
commencement of revenue and profit 
recognition from the completion and 
handover of the residential apartments and 
office towers of the 'Cinnamon Life' project, 
a significant milestone considering the long 
gestation period of the project. Operations 
of the hotel, retail and entertainment spaces 
are scheduled to commence, in a phased 
manner, in the first half of the calendar year 
2023, which will result in the generation of 
significant recurring cash flows for the Group 
once operations ramp up. 
As a landmark iconic development which will 
transform Colombo's skyline, the project will 
be a catalyst in creating tourism demand into 
the city, particularly in terms of catering to the 
emerging requirements of the contemporary 
tourist and the increasing demand for the 
Meetings, Incentives, Conferences and 
Events (MICE) segment in the region, thereby 
positioning Colombo as a sought-after 
destination for international business and 
leisure travel. The potential foreign exchange 
earnings from integrated resorts such as 
'Cinnamon Life' is a crucial requirement for the 
country, at this juncture of time, in particular. 
Transportation 
The Transportation industry group recurring 
EBITDA of Rs.6.14 billion in 2021/22 is an increase 
of 70 per cent over the recurring EBITDA of the 
previous financial year [2020/21: Rs.3.61 billion]. 
The significant increase in profitability is primarily 
attributable to the performance of the Group's 
Ports business, South Asia Gateway Terminals 
(SAGT), and the Bunkering business, Lanka 
Marine Services (LMS). The profitability at SAGT 
recorded an increase as a result of improved 
domestic volumes and higher revenue from 
ancillary operations. During the year under 
review, the Port of Colombo (POC) recorded an 
encouraging volume growth of 8 per cent, driven 
by a recovery in vessel movement and trade 
activity. LMS recorded an increase in profitability 
driven by higher margins on account of the steep 
increase in fuel oil prices and volumes.
It should be noted that the financial statements 
for 2021/22 include one-off impairments/
charges for three of the Transportation 
companies, collectively amounting to Rs.5.30 
billion. These adjustments include: (1) an 
impairment of goodwill arising from the 
difference in the original investment and 
carrying value of the investment given the 
impending end of the concession on the 30-
year build, operate and transfer agreement of 
SAGT in 2029; (2) a general provision for taxes 
at LMS, as a measure of prudence, in line with 
the higher operational activity and the current 
tax positions which are under appeal; and (3) 
an impairment loss recognised at 'Cinnamon 
Air' to reflect the current operating conditions 
given the multiple setbacks faced in the recent 
years from the Easter Sunday attacks in 2019, 
the subsequent pandemic driven impacts on 
tourism and operating conditions thereafter. 
The development work of the West 
Container Terminal progressed well 
during the year. The conditions 
precedent stipulated in the build, 
operate and transfer agreement, 
including work towards project 
design and costs and other 
structuring arrangements were 
met, and the site was handed over 
to the project company in February 
2022 for construction.
Recurring EBITDA
Rs.6.14bn
Transportation industry group
70%
Chairman's Message
The year under review marks 
the commencement of revenue 
and profit recognition from the 
completion and handover of 
the residential apartments and 
office towers of the 'Cinnamon 
Life' project, a significant 
milestone considering the long 
gestation period of the project.

11
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
It is encouraging to note 
that the volume growth 
momentum in the second 
half of the year averaged 
between 30 to 40 per cent 
for the Beverage and Frozen 
Confectionery businesses. The 
volumes of all three businesses 
exceeded pre-pandemic 
levels, reaching the highest 
levels of sales in its history of 
operations.
The development work of the West Container 
Terminal (WCT-1) progressed well during the 
year. The conditions precedent stipulated 
in the build, operate and transfer (BOT) 
agreement, including work towards project 
design and costs and other structuring 
arrangements were met, and the site was 
handed over to the project company in 
February 2022 for construction. The project 
was granted Strategic Development Project 
(SDP) status considering its strategic 
importance to the Port of Colombo and the 
country. The debt funding for the project was 
also secured during the year and financing 
documents were executed. 
The WCT-1, which has a lease period for 35 
years, is a deep-water terminal with a quay 
length of 1,400 meters, an alongside depth 
of 20 meters and has an annual handling 
capacity of ~3.2 million TEUs. Phase 1 of the 
terminal, comprising of a quay length of 600 
meters, is slated to be operational within a 
period of ~24 months. The remainder of the 
terminal is expected to be completed within a 
further period of ~24 months. The total project 
cost is envisaged to be ~USD 650 million with 
a debt to equity mix of ~70:30. The JKH equity 
commitment is estimated at USD 70 million, 
of which ~USD 10 million has already been 
invested into the project company with the 
remainder to be invested on a staggered basis 
over the project construction period. 
Recurring EBITDA
Rs.3.48bn
Consumer Foods industry group
5%
Consumer Foods 
The Consumer Foods industry group recurring 
EBITDA of Rs.3.48 billion in 2021/22 is an 
increase of 5 per cent over the recurring 
EBITDA of the previous financial year 
[2020/21: Rs.3.32 billion]. The Beverages, 
Frozen Confectionery and Convenience 
Foods businesses recorded a strong recovery 
momentum during the year, achieving 
double digit growth in volumes. However, the 
significant operating leverage did not fully 
translate to profits due to margin pressures on 
account of rising input costs. It is encouraging 
to note that the volume growth momentum in 
the second half of the year averaged between 
30 to 40 per cent for the Beverage and Frozen 
Confectionery businesses. The volumes of all 
three businesses exceeded pre-pandemic 
levels, reaching the highest levels of sales in its 
history of operations. The Beverages business 
expanded its capacity in the water segment 
through the acquisition of a facility which 
provides the business with another water 
source and bottling capacity. 
During the year under review, the margins of 
the businesses were under pressure primarily 
due to raw material price increases, which was 
largely a global phenomenon, coupled with 
the impact of the steep depreciation of the 
Rupee towards the fourth quarter of the year. 
Whilst this was mitigated to an extent with the 
significant operating leverage on account of 
higher volumes, the businesses also undertook 
price increases in selective SKUs. The pressure 
on product margins, which is exacerbated with 
rising inflation across all inputs in the country, 
is expected to continue over the next few 
quarters. All necessary measures to mitigate this 
impact will be undertaken, to the extent market 
conditions permit, with due consideration to the 
price elasticity of demand for the products in 
the portfolio. Whilst input costs have increased 
across all industries in the country on account 
of high inflation and supply chain disruptions 
in the market, the negative impact of exchange 
rates through the sharp depreciation of the 
Rupee could be largely one-off if the currency 
stabilises in the near future. The prevailing foreign 
currency shortage in the market however is likely 
to place further pressure on supply chains in the 
country and, unless the ability to establish trade 
facilities improve, there could be disruptions to 
our suppliers and, in turn, on the manufacturing 
and seamless distribution of our product 
portfolio. Considering these circumstances, 
the business will use its available raw material 
resources to optimally manage its production 
and profitability. 
Retail
The Retail industry group recurring EBITDA 
of Rs.7.55 billion in 2021/22 is an increase of 
37 per cent over the recurring EBITDA of the 
previous financial year [2020/21: Rs.5.52 billion].
The Supermarket business recurring EBITDA 
of Rs.5.20 billion in 2021/22 is an increase of 
26 per cent against the previous financial 
year [2020/21: Rs.4.14 billion]. Despite the 
challenging circumstances that prevailed 
following the intermittent lockdowns on 
account of the pandemic, the performance of 
the Supermarket business continued its strong 
recovery momentum with same store sales 
and footfall recording encouraging growth 
for the year under review. Although same 
store sales were impacted to an extent due 
to outlet closures during the periods of travel 
restrictions, this was offset to an extent by an 
increase in online sales. The strong growth in 
online sales was supported by the revamped 
online platform which provides a more diverse 
offering, amongst other features, to enable a 
faster and better shopping experience for 
our customers.
Given the notable shortages in essential 
goods and other fast-moving items, the 
business proactively ramped up its direct 
sourcing strategy during the year with the 
aim of bridging gaps and, more importantly, 
providing its customers with such products 
at the best possible value. This has also 
helped drive footfall to our outlets. Whilst 
the Supermarket business has significantly 
increased penetration of its private-label 
range, this focus was augmented with the 
intention of managing inventory better and 
also providing its customers with better 
choice and 'value for money', both of which 
are important decision drivers for consumers, 
particularly at this juncture.
Given the increased challenges in sourcing 
products due to supply chain disruptions, 
which is affecting all manufacturers and 
importers of goods, inventory gaps of the 
Supermarket business during the latter end 
of the year under review has been at a peak. 
Such gaps are likely to increase, until such 
time a certain level of economic stability is 
achieved and the lack of foreign exchange 
liquidity is overcome.

12 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
The Supermarket business witnessed a conversion from general trade to modern trade in the 
recent quarters which is expected to continue given the ability for the modern trade to ensure 
less disruptions to its supply chains through better management of its inventory and working 
capital, as well as the ability to pass on benefits to consumers due to the scale of operations. The 
performance of the Supermarket business is envisaged to remain insulated, to a large extent, 
despite the ongoing macroeconomic challenges, considering that essential and regular grocery 
and household items constitute a large portion of a consumer basket. Whilst the ongoing financial 
crisis may dampen consumer discretionary spend, the increase in inflation, together with the 
aforementioned reasons, where consumer demand for essential items should continue, are 
expected to support growth in the business. 
During the year under review, outlet expansion was moderate due to pandemic related 
disruptions. Five new outlets were opened, increasing the total outlet count to 128 as at 31 March 
2022 [2020/21: 123 outlets]. Considering the uncertainty and volatility on construction related 
costs, in particular, at this point, the business will closely review and monitor the expansion of  
its network. While the investment per outlet has increased significantly, the business will 
also benefit from higher revenue which will in turn positively impact the feasibility studies of 
prospective outlets.
The state-of-the-art centralised distribution centre (DC) in Kerawalapitiya commenced operations 
in January 2022. The ~260,000 sq.ft. facility, constructed at a cost of Rs.4.30 billion, is the largest DC 
in the modern retail sector of Sri Lanka, equipped with the latest innovative technology, systems, 
and health and safety standards in accordance with international best practice. The DC will 
augment the offering of the Supermarket business, given its ability to cater to its outlet expansion 
in the medium to long-term and translate into significant process and operational efficiencies, 
particularly given the centralisation of almost the entirety of the dry, chilled and fresh range.
The Office Automation business recorded a strong increase in recurring EBITDA driven by a 
double-digit growth in mobile phone volumes. However, the sharp depreciation of the Rupee in 
the fourth quarter led to a significant increase in exchange losses on account of the USD Dollar 
denominated trade payables, which impacted the PBT for the year. The performance of the Office 
Automation business is expected to undergo challenges until such time the foreign currency 
liquidity position of the country is stabilised. 
Leisure 
The Leisure industry group recurring EBITDA of Rs.3.78 billion in 2021/22 is a significant turnaround 
against the negative recurring EBITDA of the previous financial year [2020/21: negative Rs.3.59 
billion]. The turnaround in performance is on account of the strong performance of the Maldivian 
Resorts and the encouraging recovery momentum witnessed in the Sri Lankan Leisure businesses 
subsequent to the relaxation of travel restrictions and the reopening of the airport. In addition to 
the Maldivian Resorts segment, the Colombo Hotels and Sri Lankan Resorts segments recorded a 
significant turnaround, reporting a positive EBITDA and PBT in the fourth quarter. 
It is encouraging to witness the gradual easing of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on 
global tourism, with higher vaccination rates globally and an increasing number of destinations 
easing travel restrictions as living with the pandemic becomes an accepted way forward for many 
countries. These factors have collectively contributed to a surge in global travel.
The Maldivian Resorts segment continued its recovery momentum where the occupancy and 
average room rates at our hotels reached pre-pandemic levels during the fourth quarter of the 
year under review, supported by arrivals from both traditional and new source markets. The Group 
is well positioned to capitalise on this opportunity given that the full complement of inventory in 
all four resorts in the Maldives is available, following the refurbishments and reconstruction just 
prior to the pandemic.
With the easing of health restrictions from end November 2021 onwards, the Colombo Hotels 
witnessed a significant pick-up in the number of events and banquets while restaurant operations 
have reverted to pre-pandemic levels. 
The Group's Sri Lankan Resorts commenced 
normal operations during the third quarter with 
the relaxation of travel restrictions to Sri Lanka. 
With foreign arrivals continuing to grow month 
on month from December 2021 onwards 
together with a meaningful contribution from 
domestic tourism, which is still a key contributor 
to the segment, it was encouraging to note that 
Sri Lankan Resorts recorded a positive EBITDA in 
the fourth quarter. 
The turnaround in performance 
is on account of the strong 
performance of the Maldivian 
Resorts and the encouraging 
recovery momentum witnessed 
in the Sri Lankan Leisure 
businesses subsequent 
to the relaxation of travel 
restrictions and the reopening 
of the airport. In addition to the 
Maldivian Resorts segment, the 
Colombo Hotels and Sri Lankan 
Resorts segments recorded 
a significant turnaround, 
reporting a positive EBITDA and 
PBT in the fourth quarter.
Recurring EBITDA
Rs.3.78bn
Leisure industry group
Chairman's Message
The performance of the 
Supermarket business is 
envisaged to remain insulated, 
to a large extent, despite the 
ongoing macroeconomic 
challenges, considering that 
essential and regular grocery and 
household items constitute a large 
portion of a consumer basket.
Recurring EBITDA
Rs.7.55bn
Retail industry group
37%

13
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
The increase in profitability is 
due to the revenue recognition 
post the completion and 
handover of the residential 
and commercial units of the 
'Cinnamon Life' project. With 
regard to the residential towers 
at 'Cinnamon Life', revenue on 
the 267 units sold has been 
recognised during 2021/22, 
with a remaining inventory of 
160 units to be sold.
Recurring EBITDA
Rs.7.87bn
Property industry group
Whilst global tourist arrivals are expected to record a recovery, continued uncertainty and volatility 
on the macroeconomic stability of the country and resultant social unrest, further exacerbated by the 
ongoing fuel and power crisis, may pose challenges for the country in attracting foreign arrivals in 
the immediate-term. However, given ongoing discussions to strengthen Sri Lanka's foreign exchange 
position, such impacts are envisaged to diminish in the next few months as this is expected to 
stabilise the macroeconomy and address issues of social unrest. Accordingly, the negative impact on 
arrivals witnessed in April and in the first few weeks of May 2022 may be limited to a few months. This 
period is typically the lower season months and recovery should take place well in time for the peak 
season which commences from around December onwards. Sri Lanka continues to remain attractive 
as a tourist destination given our diverse landscape and unique offerings, with added attractiveness 
on account of the significant depreciation of the Rupee.
Property 
The Property industry group recurring EBITDA of a Rs.7.87 billion in 2021/22 is a significant increase 
against the negative recurring EBITDA of the previous financial year [2020/21: negative Rs.17 million]. 
The increase in profitability is due to the revenue recognition post the completion and handover of 
the residential and commercial units of the 'Cinnamon Life' project. With regard to the residential 
towers at 'Cinnamon Life', revenue on the 267 units sold has been recognised during 2021/22, with a 
remaining inventory of 160 units to be sold. 
Whilst COVID-19 restrictions imposed during mid-May and mid-August impacted the momentum 
of construction at 'Cinnamon Life', particularly the mobilisation of labour, the available resources 
and efforts were continually re-planned and re-organised to ensure the completion of the 
residences and the office towers for handover, as planned. The hotel, 'Cinnamon Life Colombo', 
and the retail components of the project are in the final stages of construction, where fit outs and 
interior decorating of the hotel rooms and common areas are currently underway. Accordingly, 
the hotel, retail and entertainment spaces are scheduled for commencement of operations, in 
a phased manner, in the first half of the calendar year 2023. Discussions with key tenants of the 
retail mall continued during the year, with various options being considered for the retail space to 
ensure unique attractions and offerings.
Despite the challenging macroenvironment, the USD 395 million syndicated loan at 'Cinnamon 
Life', which was due for repayment by July 2022, was refinanced through a USD 325 million loan 
facility in December 2021. In addition to the proceeds from the refinancing facility, proceeds from 
the sales of the apartments and cash reserves were utilised to settle the remaining outstanding of 
the original syndicated loan facility. The refinanced facility comprises of two tranches; where the 
main loan is a five-year syndicated term loan for USD 225 million, and the second tranche of USD 
100 million is a six-month bridging loan facility to align with the maturity date of July 2022 under 
the original facility. The refinancing facility was concluded at a rate similar to the previous facility 
taking into account step-down pricing triggers as well. Whilst most of the capital expenditure 
requirements of the project has already been funded, the remaining funding of the project will be 
met through a mix of equity commitments through capital already raised and held at the holding 
company and internally generated cash through sales of the inventory of residential units and 
commercial spaces earmarked for outright sale. 
Given current market conditions and uncertainty, the steep depreciation of the Rupee and the 
outlook on USD linked rental for commercial space, Waterfront Properties (Private) Limited (WPL), 
the project company of 'Cinnamon Life', re-assessed the fair value of the office spaces at the 
'Cinnamon Life', and accordingly recognised an impairment loss of Rs.4.90 billion on its investment 
property (IP) as a prudential measure. In keeping with the functional reporting currency of WPL, 
the IP value of the property is recognised in US dollars. The prudential provisioning is on the basis 
of having flexibility in structuring commercial arrangements in line with market conditions. 
Construction of the 'Tri-Zen' development continued to progress well during the year, with the 
achievement of the milestone of completing structural work of all three towers with a 'topping-off' 
ceremony held in January 2022. The mechanical, electrical, plumbing work and fit outs are currently 
underway, with the overall project scheduled for completion in mid-2023. The sales momentum and 
interest towards 'Tri-Zen' continued to strengthen with pre-sales increasing substantially during the 
year to reach 74 per cent, with record sales particularly in the fourth quarter. 
The newly revamped 'Crescat Boulevard' mall 
was launched in November 2021, offering a 
revitalised, upmarket shopping and dining 
experience for Colombo's shoppers. Since its 
relaunch, the business was able to secure lease 
tenants at an encouraging pace.
Financial Services 
The Financial Services industry group recurring 
EBITDA of Rs.5.02 billion in 2021/22 is an 
increase of 38 per cent over the recurring 
EBITDA of the previous financial year [2020/21: 
Rs.3.64 billion]. 
The Group's Insurance business, Union 
Assurance PLC (UA), recorded encouraging 
double-digit growth in gross written 
premiums, which reached pre-pandemic 
levels. The regular new business premiums, in 
particular, recorded strong growth, with UA 
being placed as the second largest regular 
new business producer in the industry. 
Despite the subdued market interest rates 
that prevailed during the early half of the 
year, UA recorded an increase in investment 
income supported by a realignment of the 
asset allocation and higher rates towards the 
end of year. The business also continued to 
strengthen its bancassurance channel with 
multiple leading banks, consolidating its 
position as a leading bancassurance provider 
in the country. UA recorded an annual life 
insurance surplus of Rs.1.60 billion in 2021/22, 
a notable increase against the surplus of 
Rs.825 million recorded in the previous year.

14 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Nations Trust Bank PLC (NTB) recorded 
an increase in profitability driven by loan 
growth, focused recovery efforts and cost 
management strategies. Despite the subdued 
economic conditions, NTB recorded a decline 
in its non-performing loans (NPL) ratio 
reflecting cost efficiencies and improvements 
in its portfolio quality. An impairment 
provision of Rs.990 million was made on its 
portfolio of Sri Lanka Government securities 
denominated in foreign currency during the 
fourth quarter of 2021/22. NTB, however, 
has a relatively low exposure given that this 
investment portfolio accounts for only 3.6 per 
cent of the Bank's assets as of 31 March 2022.
John Keells Stockbrokers recorded an 
encouraging performance during the calendar 
year on the back of a strong recovery in 
activity in the Colombo Stock Exchange. Due 
to the significant macroeconomic challenges, 
the stock market recorded lower market 
turnover in the fourth quarter of 2021/22. 
Other, including Information Technology and Plantation Services
The Information Technology sector recurring EBITDA of Rs.451 million in 2021/22 is an increase of 
23 per cent over the recurring EBITDA of the previous financial year [2020/21: Rs.368 million].  
The improved performance is on account of onboarding new clients and expanding the scope 
of services. 
The Plantation Services sector recurring EBITDA of Rs.239 million in 2021/22 is a decrease of 
33 per cent over the recurring EBITDA of the previous financial year [2020/21: Rs.356 million]. 
The Plantation Services sector recorded a decline in profitability primarily on account of lower 
volumes owing to the effects of the prolonged fertiliser shortage arising due to the import ban on 
agrochemicals imposed for a period of time. 
Other, comprising of the Holding Company and other investments, the Information Technology 
and Plantation Services sectors, together, recorded a recurring EBITDA of Rs.5.41 billion in 2021/22, 
which is an increase of 75 per cent over the recurring EBITDA of the previous financial year 
[2020/21: Rs.3.08 billion]. The increase in EBITDA is mainly attributable to the increase in interest 
income on account of higher cash and cash equivalents at the Holding Company. 
The Holding Company maintained foreign currency cash holdings to meet the Group's funding 
commitments which comprises of the funds earmarked for the equity infusions of the 'Cinnamon 
Life' project and the funds raised for the Group's investment pipeline via the debt drawdown 
from the IFC term loan facility and the private placement of ordinary shares to ADB. The PBT of the 
Holding Company was positively impacted by foreign currency exchange gains on its US Dollar 
denominated cash holdings net of the USD 175 million term loan facility from IFC, resulting from 
the steep depreciation of the Sri Lankan Rupee against the previous year.
Advanced Analytics 
The Group's advanced analytics transformation journey, in collaboration with a global consulting 
firm, continued with the deployment of advanced analytics solutions or 'use cases', whilst driving 
the adoption of a greater degree of data driven decision-making in day-to-day operations of 
businesses across the Group. OCTAVE - the Data and Advanced Analytics Centre of Excellence of 
the Group, now constitutes a well-established team of data scientists, data engineers, visualisation 
analysts and analytics delivery professionals.
As in the previous financial year, the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on business operations 
necessitated a review of the timing of piloting and rolling out of some 'use cases'. However, despite 
these challenges, several 'use cases' in the Retail industry group and the Beverages business of the 
Consumer Foods industry group were successfully piloted, scaled and deployed. Initial assessment 
of the business impact of these 'use cases', post roll-out and complete business wide adoption, 
provide strong indication that the anticipated benefits that were evident through initial pilot 
projects can be sustained at scale. 
During the period under review, OCTAVE also commenced work on 'use cases' in the Frozen 
Confectionery and Beverage businesses and on 'use cases' in the Leisure industry group. Data 
governance practices have now been extended to the Leisure industry group, with defined roles being 
staffed by trained resources and milestones set for governing of data domains of the said businesses. 
The OCTAVE Advanced Analytics Academy, which offers in-class room training, online courses 
and curated on-the-job learning for each cohort of roles linked to the advanced analytics 
transformation programme, has successfully trained over 180 team members in the Group in the 
functioning of advanced analytics roles at OCTAVE and within the businesses. 
Employees
The value creation process of the Group has been built around our loyal and committed 
employees, and I wish to acknowledge, with gratitude, the contribution and commitment of our 
employees during yet another year of many challenges. 
Over the years, we have attracted the best talent towards building a strong team that reflects the 
diversity of the customers we serve. We continue to engage and encourage our employees to 
perform to the best of their abilities through a performance-oriented culture founded on ethical 
Chairman's Message
The Group's Insurance 
business, Union Assurance PLC, 
recorded encouraging  
double-digit growth in gross 
written premiums, which 
reached pre-pandemic levels.
The foreign currency cash 
holdings include the funds 
earmarked for the equity 
infusions of the 'Cinnamon Life' 
project and the funds raised for 
the Group's investment pipeline 
via the debt drawdown from the 
IFC term loan facility and the 
private placement of ordinary 
shares to ADB.
Recurring EBITDA
Rs.5.02bn
Financial Services industry group
38%
Recurring EBITDA
Rs.5.41bn
Other, incl. Information Technology 
and Plantation Services industry group
75%

15
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
and transparent behaviour which, in turn, 
promotes sustainable and profitable growth. 
Our people have been the source of success 
of the John Keells Group, and, I believe, will 
continue to be a key differentiator going 
forward as well. 
While the agile work practices and policies of 
the Group enabled and facilitated a conducive 
work environment for our teams during 
the pandemic, the current macroeconomic 
conditions in particular have created 
uncertainty for the talent pools across the 
country where the trend of migration has 
increased significantly. The Group is faced with 
a similar challenge in some of its businesses 
as we continue to take steps to improve 
retention through various initiatives, while also 
focusing on enhancing the Employer brand 
of the Group via the launch of initiatives to 
make a meaningful, positive and sustainable 
difference to our people as explained below. 
The Group is cognizant of the hardships 
faced by the people of the country and our 
employees on account of rising prices and 
the scarcity of basic essential items. In light 
of these unprecedented circumstances 
the Group Executive Committee decided 
to provide a one-off, uniform financial care 
package in the form of an ex-gratia payment, 
to all eligible Group employees, during 
the month of April 2022, thereby taking a 
significant step in assisting the John Keells 
family during these challenging times. This 
care package is intended to assist the John 
Keells family in bridging the gap in the costs of 
basic essential items and, I believe, epitomises 
one of the core Values of our Group - Caring. 
The Group is also conscious this is a one-off 
financial relief and other forms of sustainable 
support, in terms of non-financial and indirect 
financial support will be rolled-out. 
The Corporate Governance Commentary and the Capital Management Review sections of this 
Report explain in further detail the best practices, policies and procedures that are in place to 
ensure that John Keells is 'More Than Just a Work Place'.
ONE JKH and Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Initiative 
During the year under review, we continued to enhance our commitment towards Diversity, Equity 
and Inclusion (DE&I) under the brand 'ONE JKH', with many initiatives rolled-out with the aim of 
increasing women participation in our workforce, providing career opportunities to persons with 
disabilities and being inclusive of the LGBTIQ+ community. 
The 'Champions of Change' pledge taken by the Group Executive Committee and the Group 
Operating Committee in June 2021, formalised the leadership's commitment to ensure that 'Life at 
JKH' is inclusive. The senior management of the Group participated in a series of awareness sessions, 
facilitated by an expert external resource person on addressing unconscious bias and the inaugural 
Chairman's Award for DE&I was presented at the annual awards ceremony in November 2021.
On Children's Day 2021, we launched our employer supported childcare facility at a subsidised 
rate for our people, with two crèche service providers currently on board. The employee resource 
group, 'Parents Connect 2021', was launched as a platform for parents in the Group while a 
structured process has been initiated towards achieving higher maternity and paternity leave 
return rates, and for supervisors to have timely conversations to better understand employee 
needs, prior to, and during, such leave periods. 
Another key milestone was reached with the completion of the Inclusive Workplace Survey 
conducted in partnership with The National Transgender Network (NTN) and The Grassrooted 
Trust, to obtain a broad range of information on trans inclusivity in the corporate sector. The Group 
also joined IFC Sri Lanka's 'TWC+' ('Together We Can Plus), making commitments on inclusivity 
towards persons with disabilities. 
Extending our DE&I focus to our value chains, the inaugural issue of the annual bi-lingual DE&I 
newsletter to the John Keells Group supplier network, 'JKH Connect', was released in April 2021. 
In March 2022, JKH entered into an agreement to provide all female employees of the John Keells 
Group with sanitary napkins, free of charge, recognising that the lack of education on menstrual 
health and limited access to essential sanitation, may have a negative impact on not only the 
physical and mental well-being of individuals but also the productivity of females in the workforce.
The Group businesses are currently working towards reaching the five-year goal of 40 per cent 
women in the workforce by 2024/25, which was announced on International Women's Day 2021. 
As at 31 March 2022, the female participation stood at 33 per cent. 
Governance
I am pleased to state that there were no reported violations of the Group Code of Conduct and Code 
of Business Conduct and Ethics of the Code of Best Practice of Corporate Governance 2013, jointly 
advocated by the Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka and the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of Sri Lanka. I also wish to affirm our commitment to upholding Group policies, where 
emphasis is placed on ethical and legal dealings, zero tolerance for corruption, bribery and any form 
of harassment or discrimination in our workplace and any work-related situations.
In affirmation of this commitment, JKH was ranked first in the Transparency in Corporate Reporting 
(TRAC) Assessment by Transparency International Sri Lanka (TISL) for the second consecutive year. 
JKH was the only entity to obtain a 100 per cent score for transparency in disclosure practices, 
which to us is one of the key elements in the 'Strength of Fundamentals' that are essential for a 
sustainable and successful business. This ranking is based on an assessment of corporate disclosure 
practices among the top 75 public limited companies listed on the CSE. 
This care package is intended 
to assist the John Keells family 
in bridging the gap in the 
costs of basic essential items 
and, I believe, epitomises 
one of the core Values of our 
Group - Caring.

16 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
During the year under review, several 
initiatives were undertaken to further 
strengthen the Group's governance framework 
and controls. The Group continued with its 
multi-pronged approach to internal audits and 
process reviews by augmenting its integrated 
fraud deterrent and investigation framework 
to foster synergy and collaboration efficiencies 
between components that deliver governance 
and assurance and related services, in 
facilitating business strategies. In addition, the 
Group continued to strengthen its Information 
Technology governance framework through 
the adoption of a Zero Trust Policy Framework. 
Further details on governance, compliance 
and initiatives can be found in the Corporate 
Governance Commentary of this Report.
Integrated Reporting
This Report has been prepared in 
conformance with the Integrated Reporting 
Framework of the International Integrated 
Reporting Council. The Board of Directors and 
the Group Executive Committee is responsible 
for ensuring the accuracy and integrity of 
this Annual Report. We confirm, to the best 
of our knowledge, the credibility, reliability 
and integrity of the information presented, 
and, in this regard, external assurance has also 
been sought from independent auditors, as 
applicable. 
Annual Report Awards
I am pleased to state that John Keells Holdings 
PLC was pronounced the Gold award winner 
for 'Overall Excellence in Annual Financial 
Reporting' at the 56th Annual Report Awards 
Ceremony 2021, organised by the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (CA 
Sri Lanka). This accolade emphasises the 
Group's continuous commitment to deliver 
a transparent, balanced and relevant report, 
ensuring adequate disclosures and further 
improving visibility of ESG related reporting. 
JKH and its other listed subsidiaries were 
recognised in their respective sectors and sub-
categories and were recipients of a total of ten 
awards at the ceremony. 
Sustainability
This Report discloses the Group's sustainability performance in accordance with the Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core option of reporting and details its integrated approach 
to sustainable operating practices, its management framework and its overall sustainability 
performance over the reporting year.
The Group's well entrenched sustainability management framework continued to ensure 
that sustainability considerations remain an integral part of all business operations. This 
framework guides the Group to integrate financial performance alongside efficient Natural 
Capital management, through practices such as conservation of natural resources, emissions 
management and responsible waste disposal, while investing in its Human Capital resources, 
through training and development of its diverse employee base and maintaining a safe working 
environment. This enables the Group to reach beyond its own boundary to build upon its 
considerable social and relationship capital, through ensuring the highest standards of product 
stewardship, conducting operations with the highest levels of ethical standards and supporting its 
supply chain partners to better their own sustainability performances.
Due to the recovery momentum of the businesses, which resulted in higher operational activity 
compared to the previous year, in absolute terms, the Group recorded increases in emissions and 
resource usage. However, reflecting the positive results of the initiatives embarked upon in these 
areas, the Group's carbon footprint per million rupees of revenue decreased by 18 per cent and 
water withdrawn per million rupees of revenue decreased by 19 per cent. In absolute terms, the 
Group reported a 17 per cent increase in its carbon footprint to 96,100 MT, a 16 per cent increase 
in its water withdrawal to 1,940,542 cubic meters and a 23 per cent increase in its waste generation 
to 8,301 MT. 190 incidences of occupational injuries were recorded during the year. Initiatives 
taken to ensure employee health and safety are further detailed under the Industry Group Review 
section of this Report. The enhanced online Learning Management System, which facilitates 
learning digitisation, was utilised to deliver a transformative learning experience to employees, 
with an average of 25 hours of training provided per person.
As disclosed during the financial year 2020/21, the Group's businesses established Sustainability Goals to 
be achieved by 2024/25, which includes a further consolidation of reduction targets in terms of energy 
and water, as well as incorporating new and emerging areas of priority such as renewable energy and 
plastic reduction. The performance against these goals is disclosed in this Report. The Group is also 
working on strengthening its climate resiliency framework and policies and will work with partners such 
as the IFC and ADB, as relevant, to obtain the relevant expertise to benchmark our progress. 
Plasticcycle
The Group's Social Entrepreneurship Project – 'Plasticcycle', working towards its vision of being 
a catalyst in reducing plastic pollution in the country through creating awareness, supporting 
responsible disposal and promoting recycling, continued its efforts despite the challenges posed 
by the pandemic having collected 99,800 kg of recyclable plastic waste since inception in 2017/18 
through a network of over 250 collection bins. 
One of the focus areas of the year in review was improving the collection mechanism by 
strengthening the value chain by onboarding more collectors, facilitating the launch of a plastic 
waste collection centre, and also onboarding a service provider to monitor the collection process 
from the bin network. 
'Plasticcycle', in collaboration with AGC Innovate, facilitated Group companies to use plastic 
modified asphalt concrete (PMAC) to restructure and resurface roads at several business locations, 
which is found to be a sustainable alternative for the reuse of non-recyclable plastic waste. 
Corporate Social Responsibility 
The John Keells Group remains resolutely committed to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), 
which is an integral part of the Group's business ethos – particularly being cognizant of the  
post-pandemic and socio-economic challenges prevalent during the reporting year. 
All projects under our six focus areas for CSR - Education, Health, Environment, Livelihood 
Development, Arts and Culture and Disaster Relief - are inspired and sustained by our CSR vision of 
'Empowering the Nation for Tomorrow'. Employee volunteerism continued to be a key component 
enabling our staff to actively engage in community empowerment and service whilst benefiting 
from the related sense of fulfilment and opportunities to further their own personal growth. 
Chairman's Message
The Group is also working 
on strengthening its climate 
resiliency framework and 
policies and will work with 
partners such as the IFC and 
ADB, as relevant, to obtain 
the relevant expertise to 
benchmark our progress.

17
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
John Keells Foundation (JKF) - a company 
limited by guarantee and registered as a 
'Voluntary Social Service Organisation' - plans 
and implements the CSR initiatives of the 
Group with the strategic direction of the 
Group Executive Committee and synergistic 
support of the Group businesses. JKH is a 
participant of the United National Global 
Compact (UNGC) and the Group's activities 
are aligned to national priorities and the 
Sustainable Development Goals, addressing 
key universal needs for the development of 
people, focusing on the three dimensions of 
sustainable development – economic growth, 
social inclusion and environmental protection.
Whilst further details are available under the 
Group Consolidated Review and Industry 
Group Review sections of this Report, 
following are some of the highlights of the 
Foundation's work during the year. 
John Keells Praja Shakthi
JKF undertook several initiatives under this 
location centric community empowerment 
programme:
 y
Colombo 2 - JKF in partnership with 
the IFC, 'Cinnamon Life' and the Urban 
Development Authority formalised 
plans for a Street Market as a community 
livelihoods development initiative with a 
focus on women. As another livelihood 
support initiative, a sustainability 
assessment was conducted on street 
vendors operating at Galle Face, in 
collaboration with the Colombo Municipal 
Council, towards enhancing the capacity 
and market reach of street vendors 
through upskilling. 
 y
Hikkaduwa and Ranala - JKF continued 
to empower and support the women 
batik artisans in Hikkaduwa and paper 
bag producers of the 'Batawela Ranliya 
Women's Society of Ranala' in collaboration 
with 'Hikka Tranz by Cinnamon' and 
CCS PLC, respectively, through capacity 
development and new market linkages, 
adapting JKF's collaborative activities to 
assist the SMEs during unprecedented 
challenges prevalent during the year. 
 y
Ja-Ela – Following preliminary discussions 
and assessment visits with related 
stakeholders, a livelihood development 
activity to enhance production capacity in 
dairy farming and production of spices was 
initiated in partnership with KFP PLC and 
'K-Zone Ja-Ela'.
Project WAVE (Working Against 
Violence through Education)
The following key initiatives were conducted 
to address gender-based violence (GBV) and 
child abuse:
 y
A public campaign against GBV with 
a focus on domestic violence, in 
commemoration of the International Day 
for the Elimination of Violence against 
Women, under the theme 'Break the 
Silence'. This comprised a cross-sectoral 
panel discussion on prime time TV and 
a two-week social media campaign with 
an estimated cumulative reach of over 
1,480,764 persons. 
 y
General staff awareness sessions for Group 
staff and a refresher programme for 16 pre-
trained master trainers on Child Protection 
from 'Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts' were 
conducted, benefiting a total of 1,095 
personnel.
 y
External awareness on GBV benefiting 298 
university undergraduates.
 y
An island-wide art competition for school 
children aged 7-12 to commemorate 
National Children's Day and to raise 
public awareness on Child Protection. 518 
children took part in the competition from 
all 9 provinces.
Substance Abuse Prevention 
Awareness
 y
JKF carried out a Substance Abuse 
Prevention Awareness programme in Ja-Ela 
for Government officials in collaboration 
with the Ja-Ela Divisional Secretariat, 
Humedica Lanka, KFP and 'Keells', 
benefiting a total of 48 participants. 
 y
In commemoration of the International 
Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit 
Trafficking, JKF conducted a public 
awareness campaign on social media in 
collaboration with the National Dangerous 
Drugs Control Board (NDDCB) which 
reached over 5,700 persons. 
Kala Pola (Art Fair)
 y
Due to pandemic related restrictions, two 
Kala Pola events were hosted virtually, 
showcasing a total of 6,415 works by 399 
artists and attracting 71,100 visitors, with 
encouraging sales including commissioned 
work. The events, conducted in partnership 
with Nations Trust Bank PLC, also 
comprised interactive features targeting 
collectors, children, artists, and the public.
Environment 
 y
'Cinnamon Rainforest Restoration Project' 
– a collaboration between JKF, 'Cinnamon 
Hotels & Resorts', Ruk Rakaganno and 
the Forest Department of Sri Lanka, was 
launched with the objective of restoring a 
degraded 59-acre plot in Suduwelipotha 
located in proximity to the Sinharaja forest 
reserve. Ground clearance, preparation and 
planting activities were initiated during 
the year. 
Digital Learning Initiative
 y
JKF in partnership with Deutsche Bank, 
Dialog Axiata PLC and John Keells Office 
Automation launched the pilot programme 
of John Keells 'Praja Shakthi' Digital 
Learning Initiative in Ranala and Colombo 
2. The project aims to facilitate online 
based education of disadvantaged school 
children by providing digital devices and 
data packages. 
English Language Scholarship 
Programme (ELSP)
 y
ELSP continued to enhance English and IT 
skills of disadvantaged school children by 
offering 653 scholarships under Tier 1 of 
its flagship programme 'English for Teens'. 
134 students participated in the Tier 2 
virtual speech competition demonstrating 
commendable skills and confidence.
Youth and Child Development
 y
59 Advanced Level and University 
students were provided scholarships 
under the Higher Education Scholarship 
scheme, which is aimed at encouraging 
disadvantaged youth to pursue their 
higher education.
 y
JKF in partnership with ChildFund Sri 
Lanka and the University of the Visual and 
Performing Arts conducted 10 aesthetic 
workshops at the De Mel Park Community 
Centre in Colombo 2 towards uplifting the 
mental health of 76 youth affected by the 
pandemic.
Upskilling Supplier Groups
 y
JKF continued its supply chain 
management initiative 'Skill into Progress' 
(SKIP) aimed at upskilling identified 
supplier groups. A customised English 
programme was completed by 40 
chauffeur guides of Walkers Tours and 
Whittals Boustead.

18 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Primary Sponsorships
 y
JKF continued its sponsorship support 
for The Museum of Modern and 
Contemporary Art Sri Lanka (MMCA) 
and the Gratiaen Trust (GT). Key activities 
include the launch by MMCA of its second 
exhibition titled 'Encounters' at the 
museum's new venue at Crescat Boulevard 
recording over 2,800 visitors, while GT 
conducted its annual Gratiaen Prize 2020 
as well as the H.A.I. Goonetileke Prize for 
Literary Translation. 
 y
JKF initiated a sponsorship for the 
Aluwihare Heritage Centre's programme 
to identify, record and archive the works of 
over 4,000 tracings of batik samples of the 
late Ena De Silva - a renowned Sri Lankan 
artist – and to support related activities 
of a group of women entrepreneurs in 
Aluwihare in the Matale District.
Restoration of the George Keyt Art 
Collection
 y
JKF initiated the restoration of The George 
Keyt Collection under JKH's patronage. 
Disaster Relief
 y
Towards supporting the efforts to combat 
the COVID-19 pandemic and to enhance 
the capacity of Government hospitals, 
JKF donated Nebulisers and Nebuliser kits 
to the Ministry of Health, a wall oxygen 
system to the Nawagamuwa Divisional 
Hospital and a multipara monitor to 
the COVID-19 treatment centre at the 
Mullaitivu Puthukkudiyiruppu Divisional 
Hospital, in partnership with CCS PLC and 
ChildFund, respectively. 
 y
JKF funded the cleaning of 29 wells of tea 
smallholders in Halwitigoda, Hingalgoda 
and Kurupanawa in association with TSF 
PLC, directly benefiting 200 persons, and 
distributed dry rations among low-income 
earners in Kalutara district in the aftermath 
of the monsoon floods.
Our Volunteers
 y
During the year in review, JKF recorded a 
total of 1,408 hours of CSR volunteerism by 
230 staff volunteers across the John Keells 
Group in respect of activities conducted 
by JKF. This number excludes substantial 
volunteer activities undertaken at the 
business or sector level. 
Dividends
The Company paid two interim dividends of Rs.0.50 per share, each, in November 2021 and 
February 2022. 
Whilst the Group recorded a strong recovery momentum and growth in profits, given the 
prevailing volatile and uncertain macroeconomic environment which could result in stresses on 
operating performance and cashflows and the pipeline of strategic investments such as the WCT-1 
project, your Board maintained the final dividend for 2021/22 at Rs.0.50 per share. Accordingly, the 
dividend declared for 2021/22 is Rs.1.50 per share. The final dividend for 2021/22 will paid on or 
before 22 June 2022. 
The Group will follow its dividend policy which corresponds with growth in profits, whilst ensuring 
that the Company maintains adequate funds to ensure business continuity, particularly given the 
prevailing challenging circumstances, and fund its pipeline of strategic investments. 
Retirement of a Director
Mr. A. Omar retires from the JKH Board with effect from 24 June 2022, having completed nine 
consecutive years on the Board. I would like to place on record our deep appreciation of the 
invaluable contribution made by Mr. Omar during his tenure on the Board.
Conclusion 
While our businesses witnessed a strong recovery during the year, with performance reaching pre-
pandemic levels faster than anticipated, the uncertainty and volatility on the macroeconomic stability 
of the country at this juncture, and resultant social unrest, poses an unprecedented and significant 
challenge for the country in the ensuing year. Whilst the developments in relation to the engagement 
with the IMF and the commencement of the requisite steps pertaining to the debt restructuring 
process is positive, the immediate need is to ensure Sri Lanka has the political and social stability 
required to achieve the economic outcomes needed at this crucial juncture, particularly in terms of 
stabilising the foreign currency liquidity position and restoring the supply of essential items and power. 
In this regard, the appointment of a new Prime Minister and a commitment from most political 
parties to support progressive and the necessary policies to deal with the economic situation in 
the country has established a level of stability and confidence. While the current macroeconomic 
challenges continue to evolve, I wish to assure you that all our businesses have done its best 
to prepare for the uncertainty and challenges ahead in ensuring the momentum of business 
continues to its utmost potential as we serve all our stakeholders. As always, I am extremely proud 
of the manner in which our people and teams have rallied around to ensure we continue to 
prepare, pre-empt and navigate these challenges successfully. 
I am also confident of the resilience of the people of the country to overcome this challenge, as we 
have done time and time again. The manner in which Sri Lankans have united gives us hope that 
we will overcome these challenges, together, and be stronger in the future as we look to build a 
sustainable future with strong governance and transparency as the cornerstone. As a corporate in 
existence for over 150 years, we will continue to play our part in building the future of our country, 
leveraging on the 'Strength of Fundamentals' of both the country and our Group. 
In conclusion, on behalf of the Board of Directors and all employees of the John Keells Group, 
I thank all our stakeholders for the support extended to the Group during the year. I also wish 
to thank all staff of the John Keells Group for their unstinted commitment, understanding and 
cooperation throughout yet another extremely challenging year. 
Finally, I thank my colleagues on the Board and the Group Executive Committee for their valuable 
guidance and support during the year.
Krishan Balendra 
Chairman
23 May 2022
Chairman's Message

19
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Investor Relations
Group Highlights
The ensuing section details the key highlights of the year under review, 
followed by an overview of the key verticals, its industry potential, 
outlook and the initiatives that are undertaken to drive growth.
The JKH Investor Presentations are available on the Corporate Website to provide easier access and 
in-depth details of the operational performance of the Group.
Financial and Manufactured Capital
Performance Highlights
Group (Rs.million)
2021/22
2020/21
2019/20
Revenue - consolidated
244,356
145,446
157,833
Recurring profit before interest and tax (EBIT)
31,149
7,893
13,403
Recurring profit before interest, tax, depreciation and 
amortisation (EBITDA)
39,259
15,572
20,069
Recurring profit before tax (PBT)
24,432
3,498
10,299
Recurring profit after tax (PAT)
20,760
2,003
7,636
Key operational and financial highlights of our performance during the year under review.
 y
The Group witnessed a strong recovery momentum during the year under review with the 
recurring performance of most of our businesses reaching pre COVID-19 levels. 
 y
Group revenue increased by 71 per cent to Rs.218.07 billion while recurring Group EBITDA 
increased by 152 per cent to Rs.39.26 billion. Performance was driven by the turnaround in the 
Leisure business, the revenue recognition at 'Cinnamon Life' and improved performance across 
all other business verticals.
 y
The Leisure industry group, in particular, recorded a significant turnaround in performance with 
a recurring EBITDA of Rs.3.78 billion compared to the EBITDA of a negative Rs.3.59 billion in the 
corresponding year. 
 y
The Maldivian Resorts segment continued its strong recovery where the occupancy and room 
rates at our hotels reached pre-pandemic levels. With the relaxation of travel restrictions, the 
Colombo Hotels and Sri Lankan Resorts segments recorded a significant turnaround, recording 
a positive EBITDA and PBT in the fourth quarter. 
 y
Revenue recognition at 'Cinnamon Life' commenced during the year with the completion 
and handing over of the residential and commercial towers. The remainder of the project 
is scheduled for commencement of operations, in a phased manner, in the first half of the 
calendar year 2023. 
 y
The Group's Port business recorded an increase in profitability driven by volume growth and 
ancillary revenues whilst the Group's Bunkering business recorded an increase in profitability 
driven primarily by higher margins on account of the increase in global fuel prices. 
 y
The Retail industry group recorded an encouraging performance with same store sales growth 
driving profitability in the Supermarket business, whilst the Office Automation business 
recorded a strong increase in mobile phone volumes, although profitability was impacted on 
account of the sharp depreciation of the Rupee. 
 y
The Consumer Foods industry group continued its strong recovery momentum with all 
segments recording strong double-digit growth in volumes during the year with volumes 
reaching pre-pandemic levels. 
 y
The Insurance business recorded double digit growth in gross written premiums during the 
year driven by a strong growth in regular new business premiums. The Banking business 
recorded an increase in profitability driven by loan growth, focused recovery efforts and cost 
management initiatives.
Insights - Private Placement to ADB
In November 2021, the Company 
resolved to raise funds through a private 
placement of ordinary shares for a 
maximum cumulative amount of the LKR 
equivalent of USD 80 million to Asian 
Development Bank (ADB) in two phases. 
 y
In January 2022, the first phase of the 
above transaction was completed 
where JKH issued 65,042,006 ordinary 
shares at Rs.154.50 per share to 
ADB for a consideration of the LKR 
equivalent of USD 50 million. 
 y
Additionally, in terms of the second 
phase, the Company also issued 
non-tradable/non-transferable 
options, entitling ADB to subscribe 
for additional 39,025,204 new 
ordinary shares of the Company, for 
an investment amount of up to a 
maximum of the LKR equivalent of 
USD 30 million. 
 y
ADB has the option of exercising the 
aforementioned options between 19 
October 2022 and 18 January 2023 at 
an option exercise price, which would 
be based on the volume weighted 
average price of the Company's 
ordinary shares as quoted on the 
Colombo Stock Exchange during the 
90 calendar days ending immediately 
prior to the option exercise date, 
subject to the floor price of Rs.165.00 
and cap price of Rs.200.00. If exercised, 
this would result in strengthening 
the cash position of the Group by a 
range of ~Rs.6.4 billion - Rs.7.8 billion, 
based on the floor price and cap price, 
respectively. 
www.keells.com/investor-presentation

20 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Investor Relations
Group Highlights
Annual Recurring EBITDA and PBT
Rs.million
 2021/22 
 2020/21 
 2019/20 
 2018/19* 
Recurring EBITDA
Transportation 
6,141 
3,610 
4,375 
4,598 
Consumer Foods 
3,485 
3,318 
3,366 
2,864 
Retail 
7,549 
5,523 
5,108 
2,988 
Leisure 
3,785 
(3,588)
2,306 
5,431 
Property 
7,867 
(17)
641 
378 
Financial Services 
5,024 
3,645 
2,988 
3,359 
Other, incl. Information Technology & 
Plantation Services 
5,408 
3,082 
1,286 
4,106 
Group
39,259 
15,572 
20,069 
23,724 
Recurring PBT 
Transportation 
5,712 
3,269 
4,044 
4,281 
Consumer Foods 
2,319 
2,304 
2,284 
1,885 
Retail 
3,056 
1,608 
1,490 
351 
Leisure 
(1,512)
(8,546)
(1,597)
1,945 
Property 
7,650 
(109)
535 
245 
Financial Services 
4,995 
3,360 
2,755 
2,966 
Other, incl. Information Technology & 
Plantation Services 
2,213 
1,612 
787 
3,632 
Group
24,432 
3,498 
10,299 
15,305 
*Adjusted for SLFRS 16 - Leases, for comparison purposes.
 y
As seen in the tables above, the performance of the Group demonstrates the realisation of the 
capacity building and investments into profit growth.
 y
With the exception of Property, which has benefited from the profit recognition at the 
'Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort', profits of all other businesses are at a sustainable level, not 
withstanding the short-term impacts on account of the macroeconomic environment.
Recurring Group PBT
Rs.24.43mn
2020/21: Rs.3.50 mn
599%
Return on equity (ROE)
7.5%
2020/21: 2.2%
Recurring Group EBITDA
Rs.39.26mn
2020/21: Rs15.57 mn
152%
Diluted earnings per share
Rs.15.12
2020/21: Rs.3.62
318%
Total assets
Rs.717.8mn
2020/21: Rs.536.8 mn
34%
Net debt to equity
23.5%
2020/21: 20.0%
Refinancing of the USD 395 million 
syndicated loan facility at 
'Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort'
In December 2021, Waterfront Properties 
(Private) Limited (WPL), the project 
company of 'Cinnamon Life Integrated 
Resort', refinanced the USD 395 million 
syndicated loan through a USD 225 
million long-term loan facility and a 
six-month bridging facility of USD 100 
million, which was structured in order to 
align with the maturity date of July 2022 
of the original USD 395 million facility.
 y
The USD 225 million facility was 
concluded at a rate similar to the 
previous facility taking into account 
step-down pricing mechanisms based 
on pre-agreed triggers. 
 y
The facility is a five-year loan with a 
two-year grace period and back-
ended capital payments.
Insights - Managing the Group's Foreign Currency Exposure
The steep depreciation of the Rupee witnessed during the latter end of the year had the 
following implications on the Group's financial position:
 y
Gross debt noted a significant increase, particularly given the exposure of the USD 175 
million long-term loan facility at the Holding Company and the USD 225 million long-term 
loan facility and a six-month bridging facility of USD 100 million at Waterfront Properties 
(Private) Limited.
 y
The Holding Company maintained a strong net cash position. The foreign currency cash 
holdings include the funds earmarked for the equity infusions of the 'Cinnamon Life 
Integrated Resort' project and the funds raised for the Group's investment pipeline via 
the debt drawdown from the IFC term loan facility and the private placement of ordinary 
shares to ADB. 
 y
At a Group level, the translation risk is also largely hedged 'naturally' as a result of the 
conscious strategy of matching liabilities against foreign currency denominated revenue 
streams, to the extent possible.
 y
It is pertinent to note that the pressures on the exchange rate exposure arising from the 
'Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort' project is mitigated to a large extent as the functional 
currency of Waterfront Properties (Private) Limited, its project company, is US Dollars. 
 y
Similarly, at present, there is no foreign exchange translation risk on the IFC loan since the 
cash is retained in foreign currency at the Holding Company.

21
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Industry Group-Wise Quarterly Performance
The following provides an insight to the performance of the industry groups across the quarters and demonstrates the recovery trajectory 
witnessed in Group businesses. 
 y
The Group businesses were impacted in Q1 due to the rapid outbreak of a third wave of COVID-19 cases in the country from late April 2021 
onwards due to the imposition of island-wide travel restrictions and other health and safety measures implemented from mid-May to mid-
June, although impacts to the Group's businesses were less pronounced compared to the preceding year, given better insights on consumer 
behaviour and better business preparedness. It is noted that the comparative performance of 2020/21 entailed an island-wide lockdown for a 
similar length of time. 
 y
With the rapid outbreak of a fourth wave of COVID-19 cases in Q2, mainly as a result of the highly transmissible Delta variant, the Government 
imposed an island-wide quarantine curfew from mid-August till end September to contain the spread of the virus. The resultant curtailing of 
movement caused a slowdown in business activity and dampened consumer sentiment, exerting pressure on Group performance during Q2, 
particularly during the month of September. 
 y
The subsequent gradual easing of restrictions from Q3 onwards enabled the businesses across the Group to recover to near 'normal' levels by 
end of Q3. The Group witnessed a strong recovery momentum during Q3 with the performance of Group businesses reaching close to pre 
COVID-19 levels. The Leisure business, in particular, recorded a significant turnaround in performance. 
 y
The recovery momentum continued during Q4, with Group businesses witnessing a significant recovery and a strong growth in overall 
performance, particularly on the back of improved consumer sentiment despite the challenging macroeconomic landscape, including rising 
inflation levels, constraints in sourcing raw materials, challenges in foreign exchange markets, and fuel and power shortages, amongst others.
 y
While there were pandemic related disruptions in the first half, the table illustrates the quarter-on-quarter improvement in performance, 
barring seasonality, in each of the businesses. This is further reinforced by the year-on-year growth percentage of each of the businesses 
Group Revenue
Rs.million
YoY %
2021/22
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Transportation
5,412
7,763
7,602
11,111
88
104
46
101
Consumer Foods
3,691
4,580
5,433
7,303
28
(4)
50
40
Retail
20,163
20,855
26,043
23,781
64
20
31
15
Leisure
1,933
3,089
5,586
8,271
1,159
165
309
210
Property
3,585
8,071
3,486
20,590
5,190
7,175
2,085
7,420
Financial Services
3,022
3,906
4,846
3,911
32
3
18
15
Other, incl. Information Technology & 
Plantation Services 
992
1,005
882
1,161
6
(5)
(5)
13
Group
38,799
49,269
53,878
76,129
80
53
53
96
Recurring EBITDA
Rs.million
YoY %
2021/22
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Transportation
1,023
1,201
1,396
 2,521 
159
29
50
86
Consumer Foods
318
600
1,004
 1,563 
(35)
(37)
66
22
Retail
1,563
1,328
2,275
 2,384 
211
(3)
34
22
Leisure
(649)
(46)
1,234
 3,247 
56
96
222
4,709
Property
542
1,261
707
5,356
1,978
10,290
5,037
52,732
Financial Services
770
982
2,111
1,161
43
51
62
0
Other, incl. Information Technology & 
Plantation Services 
1,197
1,079
803
2,329
222
78
7
72
Group
4,764
6,405
9,530
18,559
494
93
122
159
 y
Whilst the fourth quarter performance was strong, with a recurring EBITDA of Rs.18.56 billion, it should be noted that the reported EBITDA 
and profitability were negatively impacted by the one-off non-cash impairments within the quarter in the Transportation businesses and at 
'Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort'.

22 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Investor Relations
Group Highlights
Economic Value Added Statement 
Employee Wages and 
Benefits 
Share of Results of Equity 
Accounted Investees
Payments to Providers 
of Funds
Valuation Gain/(Loss) on 
Investment Property
Community 
Investments
Rs.17,335 mn
Rs.6,746 mn
Rs.9,280 mn
Rs.(4,085) mn
Rs.159 mn
Direct Economic  
Value Generated
Rs.254,157mn
2020/21: Rs.144,898 mn
2020/21: Rs.15,342 mn
2020/21: Rs.4,159 mn
2020/21: Rs.6,419 mn
Amortisation
Profit After Dividends
Rs.3,546 mn
Rs.18,667 mn
Depreciation
Rs.5,015 mn
2020/21: Rs.4,726 mn
2020/21: Rs.3,261 mn
2020/21: Rs.1,972 mn
Finance Income*
Rs.30,806 mn
2020/21: Rs.10,689 mn
Profit on Sale of Assets 
and Other Income
Rs.2,615 mn
Revenue
Rs.218,075 mn
2020/21: Rs.127,676 mn
2020/21: Rs.2,627 mn
Operating 
Costs
Payments To 
Government
Rs.195,677 mn
Rs.4,478 mn
2020/21: Rs.109,977 mn
2020/21: Rs.3,066 mn
2020/21: Rs.(253) mn
2020/21: Rs.135 mn
Economic Value 
Retained
Rs.27,228mn
2020/21: Rs.9,959 mn
Economic Value 
Distributed
Rs.226,929mn
2020/21: Rs.134,939 mn
*Includes interest income from life insurance policyholder funds at Union Assurance PLC.
Distributions to Shareholders 
 y
During the year under review, the Company paid two interim 
dividends of Rs.0.50 per share, each, in November 2021 and  
February 2022. 
 y
Whilst the Group recorded a strong recovery momentum and 
growth in core operating profits, in addition to significant non-
cash exchange gains for 2021/22, given the prevailing volatile and 
uncertain macroeconomic environment which could result in stress 
on operating performance, cashflows and the pipeline of strategic 
investments such as the WCT-1 project, the final dividend for 2021/22 
was maintained at Rs.0.50 per share. 
 y
The dividend declared for 2021/22 is Rs.1.50 per share [2020/21: 
Rs.2.00 per share]. 
 y
The Group will follow its dividend policy which corresponds with 
growth in profits, whilst ensuring that the Company maintains 
adequate funds to ensure business continuity, particularly given 
the prevailing challenging circumstances, and fund its pipeline of 
strategic investments. 
Market Information of the Ordinary Shares of the Company
2021/22
2020/21
Average daily turnover (Rs.million)
 169 
238
Percentage of total market turnover (%)
4
8
Market capitalisation (Rs.million)
200,813
195,970
Percentage of total market 
capitalisation (%)
5.2
6.3
Distributions to Shareholders and Payout Ratio
Distributions to Shareholders and Payout Ratio
(Rs.Bn)
(Rs.Bn)
Payout (%)
Payout (%)
FY18
FY19
FY20
FY21
FY22
0
2
4
6
8
10
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
Dividend Paid
Dividend Payout
8.3
40
8.2
54
4.6
49
2.0
41
2.0
10

23
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Governance
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
Key initiatives during the year:
 y
Women-centric training initiatives
 y
Childcare support
 y
Champions of change pledge
 y
Bi-lingual DE&I newsletter 
 y
SanNap programme
 y
Launched the Group's diversity, equity and 
inclusion (DE&I) policy
64
36
(%)
Shareholding Structure
Foreign
Domestic
99%
free-float
99%
free-float
29
71
(%)
Board Composition
Independent
Non-Executive Directors
Executive Directors
Transparency in Corporate 
Reporting
JKH was ranked first in the Transparency 
in Corporate Reporting (TRAC) 
Assessment by Transparency International 
Sri Lanka (TISL) for the second 
consecutive year. JKH was the only 
entity to obtain a 100 per cent score for 
transparency in disclosure practices.
John Keells Holdings PLC was 
pronounced the Gold award 
winner for 'Overall Excellence in 
Annual Financial Reporting' at 
the 56th Annual Report Awards 
Ceremony 2021, organised 
by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of Sri Lanka 
(CA Sri Lanka).
 y
The Group continued with its multi-pronged 
approach to internal audits and process reviews 
by augmenting its integrated fraud deterrent and 
investigation framework to foster synergy and 
collaboration efficiencies between components 
that deliver governance and assurance and related 
services, in facilitating business strategies.
 y
The Group continued to strengthen its Information 
Technology governance framework through the 
adoption of a Zero Trust Policy Framework.
Human Capital
Employees
Contractor’s Personnel
0
3,000
6,000
9,000
12,000
15,000
8.0
8.3
4.6
14,700
6,500
(Persons)
Total Group Workforce
100%
Employees receive feedback on performance.
Employee benefit liability as of 31 March  
(Rs.billion)
2021/22
2020/21
3.1
2.3
Launch of Learning Management 
System 'BRIDGE'
Designed to deliver value through a 
transformative learning experience 
through which learning management 
systems across the Group are connected, 
promotes social and engagement-based 
learning
A one-off, uniform financial care package 
in the form of an ex-gratia payment was 
provided to all eligible Group employees 
in April 2022. This care package is 
intended to assist the John Keells family 
in bridging the gap in the costs of basic 
essential items, epitomising one of the 
core Values of the Group - Caring.
67
33
(%)
Employees by Gender
Female
Male
Training Hours
Training Hours per Employees
363,278 hours
24.7 hours
2020/21: 315,547 hours
2020/21: 22.7 hours
15%
9%
33% female participation as at 31 March 
2022 against a goal of 40% by 2025/26. 

24 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Investor Relations
Group Highlights
Awards
 y
The 'Beverage Brand of the Year' at the 
SLIM Kantar People's Choice Awards 
was awarded to 'Cream Soda' for the 
16th consecutive year.
 y
'Keells' supermarkets ranked as the 
'Strongest Brand in Sri Lanka 2021' 
for the first time in its history and the 
'Most Valuable Supermarket Brand 
2021' by Brand Finance.
 y
Union Assurance was awarded the 
'Most Innovative Digital Insurance 
Company and Digital Innovative Sri 
Lanka' at the International Business 
Magazine Awards 2021.
Research and Development 
JKR entered into its first Technology 
License agreement to commercialise JKR's 
proprietary SilmeticTM technology, which 
will be exclusively utilised to develop a 
range of antibacterial skin care products.
 y
Several 'use cases' in the Retail industry 
group and the Beverages business were 
successfully piloted, scaled and deployed.
 y
Initial assessment of the business impacts 
provides strong indication that the 
anticipated benefits that were evident 
through initial pilot projects can be 
sustained at scale. 
 y
OCTAVE also commenced work on 'use 
cases' in the Frozen Confectionery and 
Beverage businesses and on 'use cases' in 
the Leisure industry group.
Intellectual Capital
25
No. of start-ups under incubation at 
John KeellsX
(Rs.Mn)
Water Withdrawal (m3) per Rs.million
of Revenue
FY20
FY21
FY22
0
3
6
9
12
15
13.57
13.19
10.61
(Rs.Mn)
Waste Generated (MT) per Rs.million
of Revenue
FY20
FY21
FY22
0.00
0.01
0.02
0.03
0.04
0.05
0.06
0.06
0.05
0.05
Natural Capital
(Rs.Mn)
Carbon Footprint (MT) per Rs.million
of Revenue
FY20
FY21
FY22
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.69
0.64
0.53
Sustainability Goals for 2024/25
Performance during the year against the 
committed goals have been disclosed in 
this Report
The Group is also working on strengthening 
its climate resiliency framework and policies 
and will work with partners such as the IFC 
and ADB, as relevant, to obtain the relevant 
expertise to benchmark our progress.
26.9 MT
of recyclable plastic waste collected 
island-wide
Paper Conservation
Collected 15,632 kg
for recycling
Energy Saving
2,603 GJ
of energy saved through energy efficiency and 
other initiatives at business unit level
Carbon Footprint
Water Withdrawn
Waste Generated
96,100 MT
1,940,542m3
8,301MT
2020/21: 82,009 MT
2020/21: 1,677,672 m3
2020/21: 6,763 MT
17%
16%
23%
16
84
(%)
Energy Breakdown
Non-renewable
Renewable

25
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
100%
Rs.97mn
Businesses analysed for risk of corruption
CSR spend
Supplier Engagement'
y 89 suppliers engaged through 
supplier fora
y Supplier Code of Conduct in 
place
Social and Relationship Capital
CSR Focus Areas:
(%)
Purchases from Suppliers within Sri Lanka
90
1,955,639
Number of people impacted
Key Projects: 
 y
Launch of the pilot of John Keells 'Praja Shakthi' Digital Learning Initiative 
to facilitate online learning of disadvantaged school children in Colombo 
2 and Ranala
 y
English and IT scholarships awarded to disadvantaged school children 
 y
Higher Education scholarships awarded to disadvantaged Advanced 
Level and university students
 y
Continuation of Skill into Progress (SKIP) programme to upskill selected 
suppliers of the Group in useful business skills.
Key Projects:
 y
Public awareness campaigns to commemorate the International Day for 
the Elimination of Violence against Women, National Children's Day and 
International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking.
 y
Several internal and external awareness sessions on Gender Based 
Violence and Child Protection under Project WAVE.
 y
External awareness on substance abuse prevention for Government officials.
Key Projects: 
 y
Launch of the 'Cinnamon Rainforest Restoration' Project to restore a 
59 Ha degraded plot in Sudawelipotha in proximity to the Sinharaja 
Forest Reserve and undertaking of site preparation and planting work in 
collaboration with Ruk Rakaganno and the Forestry Department.
 y
Reopening of the Nature Field Centre in Rumassala for educational 
programmes in October 2021 (post pandemic restrictions) and work 
in progress on an awareness and publicity video towards enabling the 
Centre to be self-sustainable.
 y
224 persons benefited.
Key Projects:
 y
Two virtual events of Kala Pola (Art Fair) hosted in the lead up to Christmas 
(2021) and Sinhala and Tamil New Year (2022) as ongoing support for artists 
affected by the pandemic and socio-economic conditions in Sri Lanka.
 y
Continuation of primary sponsorships for the Museum of Modern and 
Contemporary Art and the Gratiaen Trust.
 y
Initiation of the restoration of the George Keyt Art Collection under JKH's 
patronage.
Key Projects:
 y
Support for COVID-19 front liners and Government hospitals through the 
donation of various medical equipment and consumables.
 y
Immediate relief and other support for pandemic and flood affected 
communities.
Key Projects:
Under 'John Keells Praja Shakthi' (JKF's business-centric community 
empowerment initiative):
 y
Execution of the Cooperation Agreement between JKH and International 
Finance Cooperation (IFC) for a Street Market Project in Colombo 2 (with 
a focus on low income communities/women's livelihoods) and site 
related negotiations with the Urban Development Authority.
 y
Continued upskilling and market access support for women-based 
enterprises engaged in batik craft (Hikkaduwa) and in producing paper 
products (Ranala), cognizant of the severe post-pandemic and socio-
economic challenges in Sri Lanka. 
 y
Launch of 'Praja Shakthi' in Ja-Ela and Habarana.
Education
Health
Environment
Arts and Culture
Disaster Relief
Livelihood 
Development
Persons Benefited
2,005
Persons Benefited
1,501,595
Land Area Impacted
59 Acres
Persons Benefited
133,322
Persons Benefited
71,802
Persons Benefited
165,355
Economic Value Generated
Economic Value Distributed
Economic Value Distributed
Rs.249,309mn
Rs.222,082mn
Rs.27,227mn

26 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Investor Relations
Industry Group Highlights
Transportation
West Container Terminal (WCT-1)
 y
The conditions precedent stipulated 
in the build, operate and transfer 
(BOT) agreement, including work 
towards project design and costs and 
other structuring arrangements were 
met, and the site was handed over to 
the project company in February 2022 
for construction. 
 y
The project, which has a lease period 
for 35 years, was granted Strategic 
Development Project (SDP) status 
considering its strategic importance to 
the Port of Colombo and the country. 
The debt funding for the project was 
also secured during the year and 
financing documents were executed.
Insight into Quarterly Performance
2021/22
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q3+Q4
Full Year
SAGT volumes
(TEU '000)
462
434
478
457
935
1,831
Port of Colombo volumes
(TEU '000)
1,826
1,794
1,881
1,850
3,731
7,351
LMS volume growth
(%)
1
16
(6)
2
(2)
3
Our Business 
 y
42 per cent stake in SAGT – container terminal (capacity of ~2 million TEUs).
 y
Development of the WCT-1 (capacity of ~3.2 million TEUs).
 y
Leading bunkering services provider.
 y
One of the largest cargo and logistics service providers in the country.
 y
JV with Deutsche post for DHL air express and AP Moller for Maersk Lanka.
 y
GSA for KLM Royal Dutch Airlines and Gulf Air. 
 y
Warehousing and supply chain management.
 y
Domestic scheduled and charter air flight operations.
Key Performance Indicators
2021/22
2020/21
%
2019/20
SAGT volumes
(TEU '000)
1,831
1,810
1
2,066
Transshipment: Domestic mix
86:14
87:13
-
81:19
Port of Colombo volumes
(TEU '000)
7,351
6,800
8
7,241
LMS volume growth
(%)
3
(22)
-
(7)
Warehouse space under management
(Sq. ft. '000)
337
337*
0
318
* Restated on account of the transfer of the Distribution Centre in Kerawalapitiya to the Group's Supermarket business 
during the year under review.
The Port of Colombo (POC) is strategically 
positioned on the main East-West shipping routes.
Dar es Salaam
Lamu
Aden
Bahl
Gwadar
Karachi
Yangon
Chennai
Mumbai
Kochi
Mombasa
Kolkata
Chittagong
Visakhapatnam
Industry Potential 
 y
Envisaged capacity enhancements in the 
POC and shipping lines opting for 'hub 
and spoke' services will spearhead the 
thrust to establish Colombo as a leading 
transshipment hub in the region.
 y
Expected increase in bunkering market 
share driven by increased storage and 
infrastructure.
 y
Growing demand for logistics services 
through growth in inbound project cargo 
and other major industries.
Strategy and Outlook
Immediate to Short-Term
Ports, Shipping and Bunkering
 y
Largely insulated from the ongoing domestic macroeconomic circumstances, given that its 
revenue model is primarily driven by offshore markets and customers.
 y
Given the prioritisation of the Ports industry by the Government as an essential service, it is 
less likely that there will be significant disruptions of operations at the POC.
Logistics and Transportation
 y
Challenges in ensuring a seamless supply chain, especially given challenges in sourcing fuel 
for its distribution operations.
 y
Impact on the Airline businesses is envisaged to mirror the challenges and impacts of the 
Leisure businesses.
Medium to Long-Term
Ports, Shipping and Bunkering
 y
Anticipated growth in regional and global economies coupled with a rebound in the 
domestic economy is expected to facilitate a growth in overall volumes in the POC.
 y
Focus on improving transshipment: domestic TEU mix to optimise profitability.
 y
Continue to explore opportunities arising from the Ports of Colombo, Hambantota and 
Trincomalee, particularly in relation to bunkering and storage.
Logistics and Transportation
 y
Explore opportunities arising from the anticipated growth in regional and domestic trading 
activity, and ongoing infrastructure developments in the country.
 y
Optimise cost and operational efficiencies through emphasis on digitisation initiatives.
 y
Recovery in tourism is expected to improve performance of the Airline segment.
Capacity enhancements in the POC - WCT-1 and ECT.
SOUTH HARBOUR 
DEVELOPMENT
CURRENT 
HARBOUR
SAGT
East 
Terminal
West 
Terminal
South Terminal
JCT
CICT
WCT-1
ECT

27
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Consumer Foods 
Insight into Quarterly Performance
Volume Growth 
2021/22 (%)
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q3+
Q4
Full
Year
Frozen Confectionery 
25
(12)
37
25
30
17
 Bulk
24
(15)
34
18
25
13
 Impulse
29
(5)
46
40
43
26
Beverages (CSD)
18
(14)
37
34
35
18
Convenience Foods
30
0
22
2
12
12
 y
The Consumer Foods industry group continued its strong 
recovery with all segments recording double-digit growth in 
sales volume.
 y
The volumes of all three businesses exceeded pre-pandemic 
levels, reaching the highest levels of sales in its history of 
operations in March 2022.
Industry Potential 
 y
Per capita consumption of beverages at 14 litres, is below peer 
markets.
 y
Per capita consumption of ice creams at 3 litres, is far below 
developed markets.
 y
Bulk:Impulse ice cream mix in regional markets is highly skewed 
towards the Impulse segment, demonstrating significant potential 
within the Impulse category.
 y
Emerging 'health conscious' consumers and growing need for 
convenient and affordable main meal options.
Our Business 
 y
Strong market presence in Beverages, Frozen Confectionery and 
processed meats through 'Elephant House' and 'Keells-Krest' brands.
 y
Frozen Confectionery products including premium ice cream range 
'Imorich' and the 'Feelgood' guilt-free frozen yoghurt range for 
customers seeking wellness and balanced lifestyles.
 y
A portfolio of CSD and non-CSD beverages catering to a wide array of 
customers and island-wide distribution network.
Key Performance Indicators
%
2021/22
2020/21
2019/20
Volume Growth
Beverages (CSD)
18
(14)
7
Frozen Confectionery (FC)
17
(1)
3
Convenience Foods
12
(6)
0
EBITDA Margins 
Beverages and FC
16.8
20.3
21.2
Convenience Foods
16.1
19.0
13.5
PBT Margins
Beverages and FC
11.2
14.2
14.7
Convenience Foods
11.3
12.3
8.1
(%)
Revenue Mix
Beverages (CSD):FC
Volume Mix
Impulse:Bulk
Impulse
FY21
FY22
FY21
FY22
0
20
40
60
80
100
Beverages (CSD)
FC
Bulk
43
57
58
42
30
70
32
68
100,000+
52
15
2
~3,700
Outlet reach
Ice cream flavours
CSD flavours
Frozen yoghurt flavours
Total freezers and coolers 
deployed during the year
Index: October 2021
CSD Volumes
October
November
January
February
December
March
50
100
150
200
250
FY20
FY21
FY22
Index: October 2021
Frozen Confectonery Volumes
50
100
150
200
250
FY20
FY21
FY22
October
November
January
February
December
March

28 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Investor Relations
Industry Group Highlights
Retail
Industry Potential
Supermarket Business
 y
Modern trade penetration at 16 per cent, is one of the lowest in  
the region.
 y
Growing popularity of modern trade as a result of:
 y
Convenient and modern shopping experience.
 y
Access to diverse categories and brands at affordable prices.
 y
Rising per capita income, rapid urbanisation and changing 
consumption patterns.
Office Automation Business
 y
Increased smartphone penetration in the country.
 y
Increased digital adoption within the country driven by smart mobile 
devices.
Our Business 
Supermarket Business
 y
High brand equity post the re-branding of 'Keells' – recognised as the 
'Strongest Brand in Sri Lanka 2021' for the first time in its history and 
the 'Most Valuable Supermarket Brand 2021' by Brand Finance. 
 y
128 modern trade outlets uniquely branded to cater to evolving 
consumer lifestyles.
 y
Private-label consisting of ~340 SKUs.
 y
Operates 'Nexus mobile', one of the most successful loyalty 
programmes in the country with ~1.7 million active members.
Office Automation Business
 y
John Keells Office Automation (JKOA) is the authorised distributor for 
Samsung smartphones and leading global office automation brands.
Distribution Centre 
 y
The state-of-the-art centralised distribution centre (DC) 
in Kerawalapitiya, constructed at a cost of Rs.4.30 billion, 
commenced operations in January 2022, centralising offerings 
across fresh, dry and chilled categories. 
 y
The DC will be instrumental in streamlining the 'Keells' supply 
chain over ~250 outlets. 
Key Performance Indicators
Supermarkets (%)
2021/22
2020/21
2019/20
Same store sales growth
12.9
(8.6)
4.0
Same store footfall growth
4.5
(31.5)
1.8
Average basket value growth
8.0
33.4
2.2
EBITDA margin
7.8
7.6
8.0
PBT margin
1.3
0.8
1.7
Office Automation (%)
2021/22
2020/21
2019/20
EBITDA margin
9.9
8.9
7.5
PBT margin
(3.5)*
9.1
5.1
*Impacted by exchange losses due to the steep depreciation of the Rupee.
Strategy and Outlook
Source: Central Bank of Sri Lanka, Nomura Research Institute.
Source: World Bank indicators.
0
20
40
60
80
Modern Retail Penetration
Modern Retail Penetration
(%)
(%)
Singapore
Malaysia
Hong Kong
Taiwan
Thailand
Sri Lanka
0
20
40
60
80
Sri Lanka Urbanisation vs. Regional Peers
Sri Lanka Urbanisation vs. Regional Peers
(%)
(%)
Nepal
India
Myanmar
Bangladesh
Malaysia
Bhutan
Sri Lanka
Immediate to Short-Term
 y
The challenging macroeconomic circumstances may result in a 
moderation in consumer discretionary spending and hamper the 
momentum of volume growth. 
 y
Margins will be under pressure on the back of a notable increase in 
input costs, particularly prices of raw materials both domestically 
and globally. 
 y
The prevailing foreign currency shortage may further exert pressure 
on supply chains and, unless the liquidity position and ability to 
establish trade facilities improve, there could be disruptions to 
manufacturing and seamless distribution of the product portfolio. 
 y
Proactively engage with suppliers and distributors to ensure a 
seamless supply chain and better handle the working capital cycle.
Medium to Long-Term
 y
Activity levels are expected to rebound in tandem with improving 
consumer confidence and economic activity post the fiscal 
consolidation process.
 y
Continue to invest in supply chain and augment product portfolio 
to drive growth in both urban and rural areas.
 y
Focus on initiatives aimed at improving product margins across 
the portfolio.
 y
Focus on consolidating product portfolio.
 y
Invest in digitisation, particularly leveraging on data analytics to 
optimise cost savings, production practices and productivity, and 
identify growth opportunities.

29
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Insight into Quarterly Performance
2021/22 (%)
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q3+Q4
Full Year
Same store sales 
39.3
(8.7)
9.5
18.9
14.2
12.9
Same store footfall 
37.6
(37.2)
18.5
17.0
17.7
4.5
Average basket value 
1.2
45.3
(7.6)
1.6
(3.0)
8.0
The statistics on footfall and basket values are distorted in the short-term due to changes in shopping patterns.
 y
With the easing of COVID-19 restrictions, consumer sentiment and 'pent up' demand led to an increase in footfall and same store sales during the 
second half of the year under review.
 y
The average basket value (ABV) is derived based on the weight of purchase (WOP) and the retail selling price (RSP). Given the inverse relationship 
between the WOP and inflation, the ABV witnessed a decline due to the rapid increase in food inflation towards the latter half of the year.
Strategy and Outlook
Leisure
Industry Potential
 y
Encouraging growth momentum of tourist arrivals to Sri Lanka  
(5-year CAGR of 13 per cent – as at CY2018). 
 y
Proximity to India and increased flight connectivity. 
 y
Infrastructure led growth driving MICE and corporate tourists. 
 y
Sought after tourist destination in the region, with increased 
popularity and recognition – centred around its natural diversity and 
cultural heritage. 
Key Highlights 
 y
The Maldivian Resorts segment continued its recovery 
momentum where occupancy and average room rates reached 
pre-pandemic levels. 
 y
The Colombo Hotels and Sri Lankan Resorts segments recorded 
a significant turnaround, recording a positive EBITDA and PBT in 
the fourth quarter.
Cinnamon Dhonveli 
Maldives 
Cinnamon Velifushi 
Maldives
Cinnamon Hakuraa 
Huraa Maldives
Ellaidhoo Maldives 
by Cinnamon
Velana International 
Airport
Bandaranaike 
International 
Airport
naike 
ional 
rport
Cinnamon Citadel 
Kandy 
Trinco Blu by 
Cinnamon
Cinnamon Bey 
Beruwala
Cinnamon Grand Colombo
Cinnamon Lakeside Colombo
Cinnamon Red Colombo
Habarana Village 
by Cinnamon
Cinnamon Bentota 
Beach
Cinnamon Lodge 
Habarana
Hikka Tranz by 
Cinnamon
Cinnamon Wild Yala 
Immediate to Short-Term
Supermarket business
 y
Performance largely insulated, considering that essential and 
regular grocery, and household items constitute a large portion of 
a consumer basket. 
 y
Conversion from general trade to modern trade expected to 
continue given the ability for the modern trade outlets to ensure 
less disruptions to its supply chains.
 y
Private-label range to increase its contribution given better choice 
and 'value for money' in the range.
 y
The new DC will augment the business given its ability to cater to 
its outlet expansion in the medium to long-term and translate into 
significant process and operational efficiencies . 
Office Automation business
 y
Envisaged to undergo challenges in lieu of the current shortage 
of foreign exchange in the market, particularly given issues in 
establishing trade lines.
Medium to Long-Term
Supermarket business
 y
Capitalise on the low penetration of modern trade in the country.
 y
Expansion of outlets in both urban and suburban areas through a 
mix of modular and standard stores.
 y
DC to drive significant process and operational efficiencies.
 y
Leverage on data analytics for the development and 
implementation of 'use cases' to enhance business performance 
and productivity.
 y
Increase private-label penetration to enhance customer choice 
and drive profitability margins.
 y
Differentiate the shopping experience through its 'fresh' promise, 
service excellence and quality within five activity pillars; product, 
price, place, people and the customer.
Office Automation business
 y
Underlying demand for office automation solutions and smart 
mobile phones to be driven by increasing commercial activity 
and an improvement in business sentiment, beyond the current 
economic crisis.
 y
Increased potential given the rapid urbanisation witnessed in the 
recent years.

30 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Investor Relations
Industry Group Highlights
in Sri Lanka and the Maldives
3
Colombo Hotels 
12
Resort Hotels
Our Business 
 y
'Cinnamon', a well-established hospitality 
brand in Sri Lanka and the Maldives. 
 y
Diverse product offering based on 'Inspired 
living'. 
 y
Combined room inventory of 2,566 rooms 
under management in both Sri Lanka and 
the Maldives. 
 y
Land bank of 128 acres of freehold and 
140 acres of leasehold land in key tourism 
locations.
 y
Leading inbound tour operator. 
Key Performance Indicators
2021/22
2020/21
2019/20
Colombo Hotels* 
Occupancy
(%)
29
3
34
ARR
(USD)
70
64
100
EBITDA margin
(%)
1.5
(84.8)
10.5
Sri Lankan Resorts
Occupancy
(%)
32
16
62
ARR
(USD)
78
62
77
EBITDA margin
(%)
(7.2)
(140.6)
11.4
Maldivian Resorts
Occupancy
(%)
75
27
56
ARR
(USD)
333
349
364
EBITDA margin
(%)
34.8
(8.4)
27.0
*Excludes 'Cinnamon Red Colombo'.
Insight into Quarterly Performance
2021/22
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q3+Q4 Full Year
Colombo Hotels*
Occupancy 
(%)
6
20
39
52
45
29
ARR
(USD)
61
54
71
77
74
70
EBITDA margin 
(%)
(73)
(40)
11
23
18
2
Sri Lankan Resorts
Occupancy
(%)
18
18
35
57
46
32
ARR
(USD)
50
38
82
93
85
78
EBITDA margin
(%)
(138)
(179)
(16)
38
20
(7)
Maldivian Resorts
Occupancy
(%)
48
76
88
89
88
75
ARR
(USD)
259
262
344
423
384
333
EBITDA margin
(%)
3
25
37
49
44
35
*Excludes 'Cinnamon Red Colombo'.
 y
With the easing of restrictions, the Group's Sri Lankan Leisure businesses recorded a 
significant turnaround in performance on account of activity and consumer trends being 
near 'normal' since the onset of the pandemic in early CY2020. This was particularly 
evident from December 2021 driven by the notable resumption in tourism.
 y
The Maldivian tourism industry continued its strong recovery with occupancies and average 
room rates reaching pre-pandemic levels during the fourth quarter of the year under review, 
supported by arrivals from both traditional and new source markets.
Rooms under management 
Sri Lanka
Maldives
2,112
454
Pipeline of Hotels
Cinnamon Life Colombo
 y
Consists of an 800-room hotel,15 
speciality restaurants,14 meeting 
facilities, along with many other hotel 
amenities, retail, and entertainment 
spaces, Operations to commence in a 
phased manner in mid-2023.
Cinnamon Red Kandy
 y
The hotel will feature 216 rooms with 
completion scheduled for first half 
2023/24.
0
20
40
60
80
100
Leisure - Occupancies
Leisure - Occupancies
(%)
(%)
Q1 FY19
Q2 FY19
Q3 FY19
Q4 FY19
Q1 FY20
Q2 FY20
Q3 FY20
Q4 FY20
Q1 FY21
Q2 FY21
Q3 FY21
Q4 FY21
Q1 FY22
Q2 FY22
Q3 FY22
Q4 FY22
Colombo Hotels
Sri Lankan Resorts
Maldivian Resorts
Island-wide lockdown/intermittent isolation measures in Sri Lanka due to the COVID-19 pandemic
Arrivals ('000)
Tourist Arrivals to Sri Lanka
Mar-18
Jul-18
Nov-18
Mar-19
Jul-19
Nov-19
Mar-20
Jul-20
Nov-20
Mar-21
Jul-21
Nov-21
Mar-22
0
50
100
150
200
250
300

31
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Property
Cumulative Sales (units)
2021/22
2020/21
2019/20
The Residence 
152
140
137
Suites 
115
111
110
Commercial complex
4
4
4
Tri-Zen
659
342
262
Mall Occupancy (%)
2021/22
2020/21
2019/20
K-Zone Ja-Ela
82
82
87
K-Zone Moratuwa
99
90
98
Crescat Boulevard
61*
71
85
*Occupancy as at 31 March 2022 was 69 per cent.
Strategy and Outlook
Our Business 
 y
Projects developed under the 'Luxe Spaces', 'Metropolitan Spaces' 
and 'Suburban Spaces' verticals which cater to the luxury, mid-tier 
and suburban multi-family housing segments. 
 y
Construction of the iconic integrated mixed-use development 
'Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort' comprising an 800-room hotel,15 
speciality restaurants,14 meeting facilities, along with many other 
hotel amenities, retail, and entertainment spaces, in addition to two 
residential apartment towers and an office tower. 
 y
Ongoing development of 'Tri-Zen', a 'Metropolitan' development 
based on smart living in the heart of the city.
 y
Ownership and operation of the 'Crescat Boulevard' mall and 'K-Zone' 
malls in Moratuwa and Ja-Ela. 
 y
Land bank: 
 y
Prime land bank of over 36 acres in central Colombo. 
 y
Developable freehold land of ~25 acres in close proximity to 
Colombo city. 
 y
Over 500-acres of scenic leased land with an 18-hole golf course 
with a developable land extent of ~80 acres.
Immediate to Short-Term
 y
Tourism in Sri Lanka recorded a significant turnaround from 
December 2021 onwards. However, uncertainty and volatility on 
the macroeconomic stability and resultant social unrest, further 
exacerbated by the ongoing fuel and power crisis, may continue 
to pose challenges in attracting foreign arrivals.
 y
Given the ongoing discussions to strengthen Sri Lanka's fiscal 
position, tourist arrivals are expected to rebound after a few 
months if the necessary economic outcomes to address the 
shortage of essential items are achieved.
 y
The slowdown in arrivals are envisaged to be limited for a few 
months which are typically the low season months and recovery 
should take place well in time for the peak season which 
commences from around December onwards.
Medium to Long-Term
 y
The prospects for tourism remain extremely positive considering 
the diversity of the offering and the potential for regional tourism.
 y
Greater focus on asset-light investment models as a part of the 
strategy to enhance the 'Cinnamon' footprint.
 y
Colombo Hotels segment will uniquely position itself to capitalise 
on the MICE and banqueting segment through the addition of 
'Cinnamon Life Colombo' to its portfolio in first half of CY2023.
 y
Capitalise on the envisaged growth in tourism by leveraging on 
the availability of the full complement of the portfolio of hotels in 
Sri Lanka and the Maldives post-refurbishment and upgrades.
Units Sold
Units Unsold
'The Residence at
Cinnamon Life
Integrated Resort'
'The Residence at
Cinnamon Life
Integrated Resort'
59%
59%
'The Suites at
Cinnamon Life
Integrated Resort'
'The Suites at
Cinnamon Life
Integrated Resort'
66%
66%
‘Tri-Zen’
‘Tri-Zen’
74%
74%
Industry Potential
 y
An urban population of 19 per cent, far below regional peers. 
 y
Emerging suburban multi-family housing market. 
 y
Increasing demand for mid-tier housing units within the city. 
 y
Port City Colombo project, positioning Sri Lanka as a regional 
financial and trade hub. 
 y
Increased demand for commercial space. 
Key Highlights 
 y
Revenue on the 267 units sold with regard to the residential 
towers at the 'Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort', has been fully 
recognised during 2021/22, with a remaining inventory of 160 
units to be sold.
 y
Structural work of all three towers at Tri-Zen was completed 
with a 'topping-off' ceremony was held in January 2022.
 y
All land plots in 'Peacock Valley' and 'Mara Ridge' were fully sold 
by the second quarter of 2021/22.
 y
In November 2021, the newly revamped 'Crescat Boulevard' was 
launched offering a revitalised, upmarket shopping and dining 
experience to consumers.

32 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Financial Services 
Industry Potential
Life Insurance Industry 
 y
Increased labour mobility is expected to increase the level of 
urbanisation in Sri Lanka, which is currently low compared to the rest 
of the world. 
 y
Increased requirement for digital capabilities amidst COVID-19 
pandemic. 
 y
Under-utilised bancassurance and digital distribution channels, 
despite high bank branch density. 
Investor Relations
Industry Group Highlights
Banking Industry 
 y
Industry loans and advances growth of 15 per cent in calendar  
year 2021. 
 y
Advances in technology around customer experience, 
disintermediation, delivery channels, and process automations. 
Strategy and Outlook
0
1
2
3
4
Life insurance penetration at 0.55 per cent of GDP, one of the
lowest penetrated markets in the South Asian region.
Life insurance penetration at 0.55 per cent of GDP, one of the
lowest penetrated markets in the South Asian region.
(%)
(%)
Malaysia
Thailand
India
Vietnam
Indonesia
Philipines
Sri Lanka
Source: Swiss Re sigma No 4 /2020.
Immediate to Short-Term
 y
Demand may witness an uptick on the back of increased investor 
interest in real estate as a long-term investment vehicle as a hedge 
against the inflationary environment.
 y
Considering the high inflationary environment and significant 
increase in the cost of construction, the pricing in any new 
development will also increase interest in the secondary 
markets, supported by the tapering of housing supply as the 
commencement of new projects is likely to slow down.
 y
Businesses are envisaged to face supply chain constraints and 
continued challenges in sourcing labour.
Medium to Long-Term
 y
Monetise the existing land bank available to the industry group, 
subject to market conditions, through systematic development 
strategies to roll-out a robust pipeline of developments via the 
land parcels available.
 y
Shift to a broader customer base, targeting domestic demand for 
high quality housing at attractive price points.
 y
Continue to explore the expanding of its commercial real estate 
offering, subject to demand shifts due to the pandemic, at 
attractive price points.
 y
Focused strategies for expansion via developer/landowner tie-ups.
(%)
(%)
Greater
Colombo
Singapore
Thailand
(Central
Bangkok)
Thailand
(Outskirts)
Malaysia
(Central KL)
Malaysia
(Greater KL)
India
(Chennai)
India
(Bangalore)
0
20
40
60
80
100
Apartments
Landed houses
90
10
95
5
80
20
60
40
70
30
50
50
55
45
65
35
Apartment Penetration in Sri Lanka in Comparison to Regional Peers
Apartment Penetration in Sri Lanka in Comparison to Regional Peers
Source: Company analysis.
11.2% of working population
Over 65 age group
 y
Elderly population (over 65) as a proportion of the working 
population is expected to rise from 9 per cent in 2015 to 21 per cent 
by 2045. 
Central 
Expressway
Kandy
Hambantota
Matara
Port City
Colombo
Southern 
Expressway
Katunayake 
Expressway
New Kelani Bridge
Outer Circular 
Highway
Expressways
Proposed Extensions
Ruwanpura 
Expressway
Investments in public 
infrastructure enabling better 
connectivity and mobility which 
contributes to significant land 
price appreciation.

33
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Our Business 
Life Insurance 
 y
Operating footprint of 75 branches, excluding virtual locations. 
 y
Agency force of over 3,927. 
 y
Market share of 12 per cent. 
Banking 
 y
Branch network of 96 outlets, 99 ATMs and 64 CRMs. 
 y
Strong online presence. 
 y
Sri Lanka's first digital bank, 'FriMi'. 
 y
Largest issuer of credit cards in Sri Lanka. 
Insights - Nations Trust Bank PLC (NTB)
 y
An impairment provision of Rs.990 million was made on its 
portfolio of Sri Lanka Government securities denominated in 
foreign currency during the fourth quarter of 2021/22. 
 y
NTB has a relatively low exposure given that this investment 
portfolio accounts for only 3.6 per cent of the Bank's assets as of 
31 March 2022.
Strategy and Outlook
Key Performance Indicators 
CY2021
CY2020
CY2019
Life Insurance 
Premium growth
(%)
18
13
4
Market share
(%)
12
13
13
Life fund
(Rs.billion)
48.9
41.9
35.5
Capital adequacy ratio
(%)
228
31
362
Banking
Growth in loans and 
advances 
(%)
18
(7)
2
Return on equity
(%)
17.9
12.1
12.8
Net interest margin
(%)
3.9
4.1
4.9
Non-performing loan 
ratio
(%)
4.9
7.2
6.2
Capital adequacy 
ratio – total capital
(%)
17.5
18.3
18.0
Immediate to Short-Term
Life Insurance
 y
Disruptions in new business and collections due to a reduction in 
disposable income and moderation in consumer spending.
 y
Impacts on consumer income may increase the risk of policy 
lapses.
 y
Increased requirement for digital solutions amidst the COVID-19 
pandemic will bode well given significant investments undertaken 
in digital capabilities.
 y
Continued focus on an optimal asset allocation to maximise return 
while managing risks.
Banking
 y
Key focus will be to manage collections and recoveries, and 
selective return-based loan growth.
 y
The Bank will proactively look to manage its asset quality which 
may weaken on the back of increased stresses in cash flows of the 
borrowers.
 y
Continue to leverage on its digital platforms and channels, driven 
by increasing demand for digital infrastructure.
Medium to Long-Term
Life Insurance
 y
Continue to develop innovative insurance products to expand 
bancassurance and alternate channels, thereby diversifying its 
channel mix.
 y
Focus on innovation, digitisation and data analytics for higher 
operational efficiencies and better customer insights.
 y
Execute strategies aimed at the continuous improvement of the 
agency force.
Banking
 y
Grow in select verticals whilst leveraging on its strong customer 
relationships and digital offering.
 y
Augment its digital infrastructure and processes to ensure better 
customer service, innovative solutions and efficiency in operations.
 y
Efficient management of credit costs, management of impairment 
and preserving credit quality.

34 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Investor Relations
Industry Group Highlights
Other, including Information Technology and Plantation Services 
Industry Potential 
Our Business 
Information Technology 
 y
Increased digital adoption within the country and growing 
digital literacy. 
 y
Investment in futuristic technology infrastructure. 
 y
Businesses and operations increasingly adopting digital 
practices. 
 y
Competitive labour force and high-quality services to drive the 
business process management (BPM) industry. 
Information Technology 
 y
Software solutions and consultation services based on Internet 
of Things (IOT), Robotic Process Automation (RPA) and other 
digital stack solutions. 
 y
Brand presence in Middle East and North Africa (MENA) and Asia 
Pacific (APAC) regions as a leading digital solutions provider. 
 y
Strategic partnerships with SAP, Microsoft and UiPath. 
 y
BPM service provider with the mandate of driving greater 
efficiencies for their clientele. Core focus areas of finance and 
accounting, payroll management and data digitisation. 
Plantation Services 
 y
Sustained growth in global tea consumption with growing 
demand for value-added tea. 
 y
Anticipated growth in demand from Middle Eastern countries. 
 y
Increased focus on existing as well as new markets, whilst 
capitalising on the unique flavour, quality and brand presence of 
'Ceylon Tea'. 
Plantation Services 
 y
Leading tea and rubber broker.
 y
Operates six tea factories producing both CTC and orthodox tea. 
Manufacturer of low grown teas. 
 y
Manufacturer of low grown teas. 
 y
Potential reduction in oil prices and devaluation of currencies in 
major tea drinking nations may exert pressure on demand. 
Strategy and Outlook
Information Technology
Plantation Services
Immediate to Short-Term
 y
Leverage on its strategic partnerships and capabilities to 
offer smart software solutions, especially in the areas of cloud 
computing, software as a service (SaaS) and automation.
 y
Explore potential opportunities for managed services, outsourcing 
and offshoring given the 'new' ways of working.
Medium to Long-Term
 y
Explore opportunities in cloud-based solutions and services across 
industries, with emphasis on cloud, SaaS, automation, advanced 
analytics, application modernisation, cyber resilience and, 
platform/ecosystem thinking, among others.
 y
Focus on delivering innovative consultative solutions and services 
across the four value stacks of 'Strategy', 'Core', 'Cloud', 'Platforms' 
and 'Ecosystems'.
 y
Build and expand its capabilities beyond core enterprise 
resource planning (ERP), enterprise applications and managed 
development centres.
 y
Expand the range of solutions offered as shared services to drive 
greater adoption across clients and expand third party clients, 
locally and offshore.
Immediate to Short-Term
 y
The depreciation of the Rupee will augur well for the country in 
ensuring Ceylon tea remains competitive regionally and globally.
 y
Potential reduction in oil prices, continued impacts and disruptions 
from the Russia-Ukraine crisis and a devaluation of currencies in 
major tea drinking may exert pressure on demand.
Medium to Long-Term
 y
Explore opportunities to capitalise on demand for low grown 
tea from the Middle East and Russia, and emerging tea drinking 
countries such as Germany and the United States.
 y
Emphasis on the quality of products while also diversifying the 
manufacturing mix to meet market trends and mitigate risks.
 y
Optimise costs and improve factory utilisation.

35
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
INTEGRITY
Management Discussion & Analysis
37  External Environment x 40  Capital Management Review x 70  Industry Group Review  
136  Outlook x 158  Strategy, Resource Allocation and Portfolio Management x 165  Share Information

36 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
This Report is prepared in accordance with the Integrated 
Reporting Framework of the International Integrated 
Reporting Council with an aim of providing our 
stakeholders an insightful view of the Group's operations. 
The Management Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) 
section of this Report consists of the following sections.
Capital Management Review
Discusses the forms of Capital available for deployment and how such Capital created value 
to stakeholders, at a Group level. It also reviews the performance of each form of Capital and 
the value enhancement/deterioration during the year under review.
Industry Group Review
Discussion on the operational performance coupled with detailed insights to the value 
creation process of each industry group.
External Environment
Entails a discussion of key macro fundamentals, which favourably or unfavourably, impacted 
the Group's ability to create value.
Outlook
Provides a discussion on the economic outlook for Sri Lanka in the short, medium and 
long-term, the impacts to the businesses and the overall business strategy of the Group. 
Strategy, Resource Allocation and Portfolio Management
Analyses the performance of the overall portfolio, the overall strategy and means by which 
capital is allocated for investments. The performance of the Group is also measured against 
the long-term strategic financial objectives of the Group.
Share Information
Entails a high-level discussion on the performance of financial markets, both globally and 
regionally, followed by a detailed discussion of the JKH share performance. Key disclosures 
pertaining to shareholders of JKH, as required by relevant regulators, is also included in  
this section.

37
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
External Environment
This section embodies the economic, political 
and legal backdrop the Group operated in, 
and the resulting impacts during the year.
Global economic growth is estimated at 6.1 
per cent in CY2021 compared to a contraction 
of 3.1 per cent in CY2020, the fastest pace 
of growth since 1984. This growth was 
driven by a recovery in consumer sentiment 
and aggregate demand on the back of 
positive progress in COVID-19 vaccination 
drives, easing of restrictions on cross-border 
movement and accommodative monetary 
and fiscal policy stances. Whilst growth 
was more pronounced in the first half, the 
world economy recorded a slowdown in the 
growth momentum in the second half of 
CY2021 on the back of a resurgence of highly 
transmissible variants of the COVID-19 virus 
and supply side disruptions emanating from 
the pandemic. 
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
(%)
Global Economy
Advanced Economies
Emerging Markets and
Developing Economies
Emerging and
Developing Asia
Sri Lanka
CY2021 Economic Growth
6.1
5.2
6.8
7.3
3.7
Source: International Monetary Fund World Economic 
Outlook - April 2022, Central Bank of Sri Lanka. 
The Sri Lankan economy rebounded in CY2021 
recording a 3.7 per cent growth in GDP driven 
by a revival in economic activity and a gradual 
easing of pandemic related challenges, 
compared to the 3.6 per cent contraction 
recorded in CY2020. The successful vaccination 
drive, favourable weather conditions and 
accommodative policy stimuli contributed 
to a recovery in consumption and spending, 
although challenges on the external financing 
position and related foreign exchange liquidity 
challenges, together with inflationary stresses, 
exerted pressures on the economy, as detailed 
in the ensuing section.
General price levels, as demonstrated through 
headline and core inflation, remained largely 
stable in the first half of CY2021. However, 
price levels in the second half of CY2021 
recorded a steep increase primarily driven by 
global and domestic supply side pressures, 
notable increases in global commodity prices 
and the impact of the lack of liquidity in the 
foreign exchange market which resulted in an 
inflationary impact on imported items. Whilst 
inflationary pressures were evident across 
the basket, this was most pronounced in the 
food category. Core inflation also accelerated 
reflecting the lagged effect of significant 
monetary accommodation that was in place 
together with a material impact on food 
inflation due to the Government's sudden shift 
to organic fertiliser which significantly affected 
yields of locally produced food items causing 
shortages and sharp price increases. 
On the external financing front, Sri Lanka 
experienced heightened susceptibilities on 
the back of external debt service obligations, 
a widening trade deficit despite restrictions 
on imports, and a notable slowdown in 
workers' remittances, particularly towards 
the second half of the year under review, due 
to the exchange rate not being reflective 
of market rates due to being pegged. The 
increased demand for imports as a result of 
a normalisation of economic activity, higher 
importation of medical and pharmaceutical 
items such as vaccines, and relaxation of 
select restrictions on importation of non-
essential goods coupled with higher global 
commodity prices, including fuel, were the 
primary contributors to the sharp increase 
in import expenditure. This resulted in a 
widened current account deficit. However, the 
impact was partially offset through earnings 
from merchandising exports which reached 
USD 12.5 billion in CY2021, the highest level 
of export earnings recorded. Earnings from 
tourism was moderate in CY2021, given the 
subdued arrivals to the country since health 
and travel restrictions were meaningfully eased 
only towards the latter part of the calendar year. 
The equities and Government securities market 
continued to witness net outflows during 
CY2021, similar to CY2020, whilst foreign direct 
investment (FDI) remained moderate.
The financial account recorded a net outflow 
primarily in lieu of settlements of a USD 1.00 
billion International Sovereign Bond (ISB) 
in July 2021 and a further USD 500 million 
payment in January 2022, as well as other 
debt service obligations and supply of foreign 
exchange to the domestic foreign exchange 
market to facilitate the importation of essential 
goods. Inflows received such as the Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR) allocation by the IMF, 
two foreign currency term financing facilities 
from the China Development Bank, and 
international currency swap agreements with 
the People's Bank of China (PBOC) and the 
Bangladesh Bank positively impacted the 
financial account. The pegged exchange rate 
came under significant pressure from March 
2022 onwards as the gap between the market 
rates and the peg continued to widen whilst 
the reserves position of the Central Bank of Sri 
Lanka (CBSL) had fallen drastically. With the 
adoption of the flexible exchange rate regime 
by the CBSL in mid-March 2022, the currency 
witnessed a steep depreciation by 31 March 
2022. In addition to the depreciation of the 
currency, there were significant challenges in 
the foreign currency market on the back of a 
marked reduction in liquidity amidst declining 
confidence and a depletion of foreign currency 
reserves in the country, particularly towards 
the latter end of the year. This resulted in a 
series of measures such as the continuation 
of certain import controls and stipulations on 
foreign currency conversions and remittances. 
The lack of confidence in the market also 
resulted in a sharp reduction in foreign currency 
employment remittances which exacerbated 
the liquidity situation, as outlined previously.
The year under review was also characterised by 
multiple sovereign rating downgrades due to 
the worsening liquidity positioning, weakening 
fiscal outlook and limited access to foreign 
financial markets. The rating agencies also cited 
concerns on the significantly high debt level of 
the Government and the bunching of foreign 
debt obligations in the near to medium-term, 
when downgrading the sovereign rating of the 
country. 
On the external financing front, 
Sri Lanka experienced heightened 
susceptibilities on the back of 
external debt service obligations, 
a widening trade deficit despite 
restrictions on imports, and a notable 
slowdown in workers' remittances, 
particularly towards the second half 
of the year under review, due to the 
exchange rate not being reflective of 
market rates due to being pegged.

38 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
External Environment
GDP Growth
Inflation
The Sri Lankan economy expanded by 3.7 per cent in CY2021  
[CY2020: contraction of 3.6 per cent].
Cause
The growth in the overall economy was driven by a growth across all 
three sectors. Agricultural and Industrial sectors recorded a growth 
of 2 per cent [CY2020: contraction of 2 per cent] and 5.3 per cent 
[CY2020: contraction of 6.9 per cent]. Services sector also recorded a 
growth of 3 per cent [CY2020: contraction of 1.6 per cent].
Consumption expenditure recorded a significant growth of 9.9 per 
cent at in CY2021 [CY2020: 2 per cent]. This growth was predominantly 
driven by household consumption expenditure, which grew by 10.8 
per cent in CY2021 [CY2020: 1 per cent]. Government consumption 
expenditure at current prices grew at a relatively modest pace of 3.7 per 
cent in CY2021 [CY2020: 9.9 per cent].
Impact to JKH
The Group witnessed a strong recovery momentum during the year 
with the performance of the businesses reaching pre COVID-19 levels 
with business activity and consumer trends being 'near normal'. 
This positive momentum resulted in all sectors within the Group 
recording a strong growth in profits. The Group's Leisure businesses, in 
particular, recorded a significant turnaround in performance on account 
of the resumption in operations in Sri Lanka. 
Year-on-year headline inflation, based on the NCPI, was 21.5 
per cent in March 2022 [March 2021: 5.1 per cent].
Cause
Whilst inflation was contained to single digits within the first 
half of the year, inflation recorded a steep increase in the 
second half. 
Accordingly, year-on-year headline inflation, as measured by 
NCPI was recorded at 14 per cent for CY2021 [CY2020: 4.6 
per cent] and 21.5 per cent for March 2022. 
Year-on-year core inflation, based on NCPI, which measures 
the underlying inflationary pressure of the economy 
increased to 17.3 per cent in March 2022, from 4.3 per cent 
in March 2021. 
The food category in particular, witnessed severe inflationary 
pressures. 
Impact to JKH
Inflationary pressures were evident across the Group, 
exerting pressure on margins, mainly towards the latter end 
of the year. Such impacts were significant in the Consumer 
Foods industry group, where increases in prices of raw 
material and other commodities impacted margins of the 
industry group. 
Sri Lanka's total external debt increased marginally to USD 50.7 billion in 
CY2021 from USD 49.0 billion in CY2020. The central government debt, as 
a percentage of GDP, increased to 104.6 per cent in CY2021 [100.6 per cent 
CY2020]. 
The macroeconomic landscape since CY2021 has evolved with increased 
challenges on the fiscal and external fronts, particularly in sourcing much 
needed foreign exchange for the provision of essential goods, medicine and fuel. 
With the aim of ensuring the sustainability of the country's external debt 
for restoring macroeconomic stability, the Government and the CBSL have 
identified the need for implementing urgent measures and economic reforms 
to address external sector vulnerabilities aimed at resolving persistent and 
long-standing issues in the economy. Technical discussions with the IMF are 
in progress and expectations are that a staff level agreement can be reached 
within a few months. The ability to showcase a roadmap and demonstrate the 
commitment to reach debt sustainability through reforms and negotiations is 
an important precursor to the IMF discussions. 
(Rs.bn)
CY19
CY20
CY21
0
2,000
4,000
6,000
8,000
10,000
Agriculture
Industries
Services
GDP growth
756
738
753
2,873
2,662
2,806
6,255
6,134
6,322
(3.6)
3.7
2.3
(%)
0
5
10
15
20
25
FY22 (CCPI)
FY21 (CCPI)
FY22 (NCPI)
FY21(NCPI)
Mar-21
Apr-21
May-21
Jun-21
Jul-21
Aug-21
Sep-21
Oct-21
Nov-21
Dec-21
Jan-22
Feb-22
Mar-22
The political and social uncertainty in the country reached a peak on 
9 May 2022 when the peaceful protests being held were disrupted 
causing retaliatory violence and uncertainty for a few days. The Prime 
Minister resigned on the same day which resulted in the Government 
being dissolved. At the time of writing this Report, the situation in 
the country is calm with some level of political stability with the 
appointment of a new Prime Minister. Further details on the situation 
as at the date of this Report can be found in the Chairman's Message.
 Refer Outlook for further details - page 136 
 A more comprehensive discussion of the external environment relevant to 
the businesses is found in the Industry Group Review section - page 70
The ensuing sections detail the movement of the primary  
macroeconomic variables during the year under review and the 
resultant impacts on the performance of the Group's businesses.

39
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Domestic Interest Rates
Global Interest Rates
AWPLR increased to 9.71 per cent in March 2022 from 5.75 per 
cent in March 2021.
The 3-month treasury bill rate was 12.01 per cent in March 2022 
compared to 5.04 per cent in the corresponding period.
Cause
In response to the significant inflationary pressures and the 
imbalances that emerged in the external sector and financial 
markets, the CBSL, which deployed unprecedented monetary 
stimulus measures since 2020, gradually commenced monetary 
tightening measures from mid-August 2021 onwards. 
Accordingly, the Standing Deposit Facility Rate (SDFR) and the 
Standing Lending Facility Rate (SLFR) were raised twice by a total 
of 200 basis points each with the rates at 6.5 per cent and 7.5 per 
cent as at March 2022, respectively. 
In early April 2022, the CBSL raised the SDFR and SLFR 
significantly by 700 basis points, each, to 13.50 per cent and 
14.50 per cent, respectively, on the back of severe inflationary 
pressures, domestic supply disruptions and foreign exchange 
challenges. 
The Statutory Reserve Ratio (SRR) was also raised by 200 basis 
points to 4 per cent in September 2021.
Impact to JKH
The Group, excluding its Insurance business, recorded an overall 
increase in finance income (excluding exchange gains and losses), 
primarily driven by an increase in Group cash and cash equivalents, 
as discussed in detail under the Financial and Manufactured 
Capital section of the Capital Management Review. 
The Group proactively managed the risk of increasing interest 
rates and made conscious efforts by re-balancing its portfolio 
of borrowings and moved a sizeable portion of the Sri Lankan 
Rupee (LKR) borrowings on a long-term basis. Further, where 
relevant and possible, a majority of the LKR long-term facilities 
were converted to a fixed rate basis over the tenor of the loan. 
The Group's finance expense increased primarily on account of a 
significant increase in overall debt to fund its investment pipeline, 
which is in line with the funding strategy of the Group. 
3-month USD LIBOR increased to 0.96 per cent in March 2022, 
from 0.19 per cent in March 2021.
Cause
The Federal Reserve Open Market Committee (FOMC) 
maintained the federal funds rate within a target range of 
0-0.25 per cent during the year under review, with the aim of 
stimulating economic recovery. 
Although no policy actions were taken during the year under 
review, the FOMC commenced signalling a more hawkish 
outlook for interest rates for the ensuing year from late-CY2021 
onwards which was reflected in market rates towards the latter 
end of the year under review. 
Impact to JKH
The Group's USD cash holdings increased as a result of the first 
phase of the private placement of ordinary shares amounting to 
the LKR equivalent of USD 50 million to the Asian Development 
Bank (ADB).
In respect of the Group's foreign currency borrowing portfolio, 
interest rate swap agreements are in place for a sizeable portion 
of the facilities in order to mitigate the Group's exposure to rate 
fluctuations.
In response to the significant inflationary 
pressures and the imbalances that emerged in the 
external sector and financial markets, the Central 
Bank of Sri Lanka, which deployed unprecedented 
monetary stimulus measures since 2020, 
gradually commenced monetary tightening 
measures from mid August 2021.
The Group proactively managed the risk of 
increasing interest rates and made conscious 
efforts by re-balancing its portfolio of borrowings 
and moved a sizeable portion of the Sri Lankan 
Rupee (LKR) borrowings on a long-term basis.
(%)
0
2
4
6
8
10
Mar-21
May-21
Jul-21
Sep-21
Nov-21
Jan-22
Mar-22
 Average Weighted Prime Lending Rate (weekly) 
(%)
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
1.2
Mar-21
Apr-21
May-21
Jun-21
Jul-21
Aug-21
Sep-21
Oct-21
Nov-21
Dec-21
Jan-22
Feb-22
Mar-22
 3 month US Dollar LIBOR 

40 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Capital Management 
Review
External Environment
Exchange Rates
Based on the mid exchange rate published by CBSL, LKR depreciated 
by 47 per cent to Rs.293.87 against the USD as at 31 March 2022, 
compared to its closing rate of Rs.199.83 per USD as at 31 March 2021.
Cause
The LKR/USD exchange rate recorded only a 7 per cent 
depreciation in CY2021, mainly due to the fixed exchange rate 
regime. The exchange rate depreciated by a further 33 per cent in 
March 2022 once the CBSL allowed a more flexible market driven 
rate from early March 2022 onwards.
The LKR has continued to witness significant pressure due to lack 
of confidence and an acute shortage of liquidity in the market. The 
LKR/USD exchange rate has fallen to ~Rs.360.00 as at the date of 
this Report, which amounts to an ~80 per cent fall in the value of 
the currency. 
Impact to JKH
The depreciation of the Rupee had a positive impact on businesses 
having Dollar Denominated income streams, particularly in the 
Leisure industry group and the Ports and Shipping business. 
The Holding Company has foreign currency cash holdings 
earmarked for equity infusions to the 'Cinnamon Life Integrated 
Resort' project and funds raised for the Group's investment pipeline 
via the IFC long-term loan facility and the private placement of 
ordinary shares to ADB. As a result, the Holding Company recorded 
foreign exchange gains on its net USD cash holdings. 
The Consumer Foods and the Office Automation businesses took 
proactive steps to mitigate exchange rate risks, where possible. 
However, the Office Automation business faced significant pressure 
on account of the sharp depreciation impact on pending settlements 
due to the deferred trade payments as stipulated by the CBSL. 
The Group adopted prudent measures, as and when required, 
to manage the impacts arising from the liquidity constraints 
and currency depreciation by matching liabilities with 
corresponding inflows. At a Group level, the translation risk on 
foreign currency debt is largely hedged 'naturally' as a result 
of the conscious strategy of maintaining USD cash balances 
at the Holding Company whilst also ensuring obligations can 
be managed through USD denominated revenue streams. The 
Group navigated the liquidity challenges through matching its 
obligations with foreign currency inflows to the extent possible.
The exchange rate exposure arising from the 'Cinnamon Life' project 
is mitigated to an extent since the functional currency of the project 
company, Waterfront Properties (Private) Limited, is in USD.
(LKR/USD)
180
210
240
270
300
330
360
Mar-21
Apr-21
May-21
Jun-21
Jul-21
Aug-21
Sep-21
Oct-21
Nov-21
Dec-21
Jan-22
Feb-22
Mar-22
LKR/USD exchange rate
The underlying essence of our business model and business framework 
is to ensure sustainable value creation for all stakeholders whilst ensuing 
a resilient and agile business. 
The key inputs of our value creation model are;
The sections that follow, detail the means by which each form of Capital 
is utilised for the execution of the businesses' short, medium and long-
term strategies towards generating sustainable value to all stakeholders 
concerned. The sections also detail the performance of the Group, under 
each form of Capital. 
In addition to the core operations of each of the business units, the 
Group makes a conscious, strategic and collective effort to cater to wider 
societal needs, meaningfully enriching and empowering the lives of the 
surrounding communities via John Keells Foundation (JKF), its corporate 
social responsibility (CSR) entity. The CSR initiatives of the Group 
represent how the Group's values, corporate culture and operations 
are intrinsically intertwined and connected to social, economic, 
environmental and governance concerns. 
The Group's CSR initiatives are aligned to national priorities, Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) and principles of the UN Global Compact 
to ensure a collective, targeted focus towards addressing key universal 
needs for holistic development, focusing on the three dimensions 
of sustainable development - economic growth, social inclusion and 
environmental protection. The Group's CSR vision 'Empowering the 
Nation for Tomorrow' embodies social empowerment and sustainable 
environmental practices which are fundamental to sustainable growth. 
The Group's CSR initiatives entail medium to long-term, strategic and 
sustainable projects within a framework of six focus areas, namely, 
Education, Health, Livelihood Development, Environment, Arts and 
Culture and Disaster Relief. Given the integrated nature of this Report, the 
Group's CSR initiatives are discussed under the relevant form of Capital.
 Further business-specific CSR initiatives are found in the Industry Group 
Review section of this Report and the John Keells Foundation website 
(www.johnkeellsfoundation.com)
Key inputs of 
our value 
creation model
Financial and 
Manufactured Capital
Natural Capital
Human Capital
Intellectual 
Capital
Social and 
Relationship Capital

41
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Financial and Manufactured Capital
Revenue
Group revenue recorded a 71 per cent increase to Rs.218.07 billion during the year under review 
[2020/21: Rs.127.68 billion]. The increase primarily stemmed from;
 y
The Property industry group, on account of revenue recognition from the handover of units in 
the residential towers and the sold and leased commercial office spaces at the 'Cinnamon Life 
Integrated Resort'. 
 y
The Retail industry group, driven by both the Supermarket and Office Automation businesses 
on the back of a notable recovery in same store sales and domestic consumption. 
 y
The Transportation industry group, mainly due to notable growth in the Bunkering business aided 
by increases in base oil prices for bunker fuel and customer acquisitions. 
Revenue emanating from domestic sources was Rs.171.96 billion [2020/21: Rs.110.07 billion].
Group revenue, inclusive of equity accounted investees, increased by 68 per cent to Rs.244.36 
billion [2020/21: Rs.145.45 billion].
Revenue from equity accounted investees at Rs.26.28 billion was an increase of 48 per cent against 
the Rs.17.77 billion recorded in 2020/21. The increase primarily stemmed from revenue recognition 
of the 'Tri-Zen' residential project, improved performance at South Asia Gateway Terminal (SAGT) and 
Nations Trust Bank (NTB). 
The revenue breakdown across industry groups inclusive of share of associate revenue, is as follows:
Revenue incl. Equity Accounted Investees (Rs.million)
2021/22
2020/21
%
Transportation
 43,877 
 26,584 
65
Consumer Foods
 21,008 
 16,510 
27
Retail
 90,842 
 70,229 
29
Leisure
 18,962 
 5,374 
253
Property
 41,476 
 1,910 
2,072
Financial Services
 24,149 
 20,890 
16
Other, incl. Information Technology & Plantation Services
 4,041 
 3,949 
2
Group
 244,356 
 145,446 
68
 For an industry-group wise analysis of performance, refer the Industry Group Reviews - page 70
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
Composition of Revenue incl. Equity Accounted Investees
Composition of Revenue incl. Equity Accounted Investees
(%)
(%)
FY21
FY22
Transportation 
Leisure
Retail
Consumer Foods
Property
Financial Services
Other, incl.
Information
Technology
& Plantation Services 
18.3 
18.0 
11.4 
8.6 
48.3 
37.2 
3.7
7.8 
1.3 
14.4 
9.9 
2.7 
1.7 
17.0 
The Group witnessed a strong recovery during 
the year under review with the performance 
of most businesses reaching pre-COVID-19 
levels with business activity and consumer 
trends being near 'normal' since the onset 
of the pandemic in early 2020. This positive 
momentum resulted in most businesses 
within the Group recording a strong growth 
in profits. The Group's Leisure businesses, in 
particular, recorded a significant turnaround 
in performance on account of the resumption 
in operations in Sri Lanka and the continued 
recovery in the Maldives. 
Whilst the following discussion provides a 
holistic view on the Group's performance and 
key drivers during the year under review, where 
relevant, insight will be provided on the Group's 
underlying performance excluding one-off 
impacts through a discussion of a recurring 
performance analysis, as morefully detailed in 
the ensuing section.
 Refer the Industry Group Reviews for a 
detailed analysis for the performance of 
each industry group - page 70
Group Revenue
Group Revenue incl. Equity 
Accounted Investees
Group EBITDA
Recurring Group EBITDA
Rs.218.07bn
Rs.244.36bn
Rs.29.26bn
Rs.39.26bn
2020/21: Rs.127.68 bn
2020/21: Rs.145.45 bn
2020/21: Rs.15.61 bn
2020/21: Rs.15.57 bn
71%
68%
87%
152%

42 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Capital Management Review
Recurring Adjustments
To depict the underlying performance of the Group during the year, the recurring performance analysis entails the following adjustments:
 y
Removal of impacts of fair value gains on investment property (IP): 
 
This excludes IP gains at the Property industry group as the Group's land banking strategy is aimed at monetising such assets in the medium-
term; IP gains are reflective of the core operations of the Property industry group. IP gains pertaining to industry groups other than Property 
have been adjusted at a Group level. However, refer Note 3 below. 
 
On this basis, IP gains pertaining to all industry groups other than Property stood at Rs.203 million [2020/21: Rs.38 million].
 y
Other one-offs/adjustments specific for 2021/22:
Adjustments for 2021/22, as already captured in reported results
(Rs.billion)
Group
Holding
Company
Net exchange gains
Note 1
12.89
18.63
One-off impacts in the Transportation companies 
Note 2
(5.30)
(0.51)
Fair value loss on investment property (IP) at WPL
Note 3
(4.90)
N/A
One-off deferred tax charge at JKH
Note 4
(3.21)
(3.21)
 y
Note 1 – Given the steep depreciation of the LKR/USD exchange 
rate witnessed towards the latter end of the year under review, 
where the LKR recorded a decline of 52 per cent during 2021/22 to 
Rs.305.00 as at 31 March 2022, the impacts of all foreign exchange 
gains/losses for the year under review have been eliminated in 
arriving at the recurring performance. 
The net foreign exchange gain is primarily as a result of a foreign 
exchange gain on the Holding Company's net USD denominated 
cash holdings. The foreign currency cash holdings include the 
funds earmarked for the equity infusions of the 'Cinnamon Life 
Integrated Resort' project and the funds raised for the Group's 
investment pipeline via the debt drawdown of the long-term loan 
facility from the International Finance Corporation (IFC) and the 
private placement of ordinary shares to the Asian Development 
Bank (ADB).
The related impacts of exchange gains and losses in 2020/21 have 
been adjusted for comparative purposes. Accordingly, at a Group 
level, Rs.12.89 billion of net exchange gains have been adjusted 
[2020/21: net exchange gains of Rs.1.91 billion] whilst at the 
Holding Company, this is at Rs.18.63 billion [2020/21: net exchange 
gains of Rs.1.64 billion]. 
 y
Note 2 – The one-off impacts at the following Transportation 
companies have been excluded: South Asia Gateway Terminal 
(SAGT), Lanka Marine Services (LMS) and Saffron Aviation (Private) 
Limited (SAL). 
i. Given the impending end of the concession on the 30-year 
build, operate and transfer (BOT) agreement of SAGT in 2029, an 
impairment of goodwill arising from the difference of the original 
investment and carrying value of the investment was recognised 
in 2021/22. 
ii. A general provision for taxes was made at LMS, as a measure of 
prudence, in line with the higher operational activity and the 
current tax positions which are being appealed.
iii. Given the multiple setbacks faced in the recent years from the 
Easter Sunday attacks in CY2019, the subsequent pandemic 
driven impacts on tourism, and operating conditions thereafter, 
an impairment loss is recognised at SAL, the operating company 
of 'Cinnamon Air', reflecting current operating conditions. 
 y
Note 3 – Given current market conditions and uncertainty, the 
steep depreciation of the Rupee and the outlook on USD linked 
rental for commercial space, as a prudential measure, Waterfront 
Properties (Private) Limited (WPL) re-assessed the fair value of 
the office spaces at the 'Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort', and 
accordingly recognised an impairment loss of Rs.4.90 billion on its 
investment property (IP). In keeping with the functional reporting 
currency of WPL, the IP value of the property is recognised in 
US Dollars. The prudential provisioning is on the basis of having 
flexibility in structuring commercial arrangements in line with 
market conditions. This impairment is included under the Property 
industry group.
 y
Note 4 – The foreign currency exchange gain at the Holding 
Company for the year under review, as detailed under Note 1 
above, will be taxed only upon realisation as per the current tax 
regulations. As such, a deferred tax provision amounting to Rs.3.21 
billion was recognised in 2021/22.
Financial and Manufactured Capital

43
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Industry Group-Wise Quarterly Performance
The following provides an insight to the performance of the industry groups across the quarters and demonstrates the recovery trajectory 
witnessed in Group businesses. 
 y
The Group businesses were impacted in Q1 due to the rapid outbreak of a third wave of COVID-19 cases in the country from late April 2021 
onwards due to the imposition of island-wide travel restrictions and other health and safety measures implemented from mid-May to mid-
June, although impacts to the Group's businesses were less pronounced compared to the preceding year, given better insights on consumer 
behaviour and better business preparedness. It is noted that the comparative performance of 2020/21 entailed an island-wide lockdown for a 
similar length of time. 
 y
With the rapid outbreak of a fourth wave of COVID-19 cases in Q2, mainly as a result of the highly transmissible Delta variant, the Government 
imposed an island-wide quarantine curfew from mid-August till end September to contain the spread of the virus. The resultant curtailing of 
movement caused a slowdown in business activity and dampened consumer sentiment, exerting pressure on Group performance during Q2, 
particularly during the month of September. 
 y
The subsequent gradual easing of restrictions from Q3 onwards enabled the businesses across the Group to recover to near 'normal' levels by 
end of Q3. The Group witnessed a strong recovery momentum during Q3 with the performance of Group businesses reaching close to pre 
COVID-19 levels. The Leisure business, in particular, recorded a significant turnaround in performance. 
 y
The recovery momentum continued during Q4, with Group businesses witnessing a significant recovery and a strong growth in overall 
performance, particularly on the back of improved consumer sentiment despite the challenging macroeconomic landscape, including rising 
inflation levels, constraints in sourcing raw materials, challenges in foreign exchange markets, and fuel and power shortages, amongst others.
 y
While there were pandemic related disruptions in the first half, the table illustrates the quarter-on-quarter improvement in performance, 
barring seasonality, in each of the businesses. This is further reinforced by the year-on-year growth percentage of each of the businesses 
Group Revenue
Rs.million
YoY %
2021/22
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Transportation
5,412
7,763
7,602
11,111
88
104
46
101
Consumer Foods
3,691
4,580
5,433
7,303
28
(4)
50
40
Retail
20,163
20,855
26,043
23,781
64
20
31
15
Leisure
1,933
3,089
5,586
8,271
1,159
165
309
210
Property
3,585
8,071
3,486
20,590
5,190
7,175
2,085
7,420
Financial Services
3,022
3,906
4,846
3,911
32
3
18
15
Other incl. Information Technology & 
Plantation Services
992
1,005
882
1,161
6
(5)
(5)
13
Group
38,799
49,269
53,878
76,129
80
53
53
96
Recurring Group EBITDA
Rs.million
YoY %
2021/22
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Transportation
1,023
1,201
1,396
 2,521 
159
29
50
86
Consumer Foods
318
600
1,004
 1,563 
(35)
(37)
66
22
Retail
1,563
1,328
2,275
 2,384 
211
(3)
34
22
Leisure
(649)
(46)
1,234
 3,247 
56
96
222
4,709
Property
542
1,261
707
5,356
1,978
10,290
5,037
52,732
Financial Services
770
982
2,111
1,161
43
51
62
0
Other incl. Information Technology & 
Plantation Services
1,197
1,079
803
2,329
222
78
7
72
Group
4,764
6,405
9,530
18,559
494
93
122
159

44 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Capital Management Review
Financial and Manufactured Capital
Earnings Before Interest Expense, Tax, Depreciation and Amortisation
Group earnings before interest expense, tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) increased by 
87 per cent to Rs.29.26 billion during the year under review [2020/21: Rs.15.61 billion] mainly on 
account of Leisure, Property, Other, including Information Technology and Plantation Services and 
Retail industry groups, demonstrating the strong recovery of the businesses and the generation of 
cash profits by the Group.
Definition: Note that EBITDA includes interest income and the share of results of equity accounted 
investees which is based on the share of profit after tax but excludes all impacts from foreign 
currency exchange gains and losses, to demonstrate the underlying cash operational performance 
of businesses.
Group EBITDA Reconciliation (Rs.million)
2021/22
2020/21
Group revenue excl. equity accounted investees
218,075
127,676
(-) Cost of sales
180,430
108,747
(+) Other operating income
2,615
2,627
(-) Selling and distribution expenses
5,733
4,761
(-) Administration expenses
14,763
12,928
(-) Other operating expenses
7,608
1,314
(+) Finance income
30,806
10,689
(+/-) Change in insurance contract liabilities
(6,416)
(7,032)
(+/-) Change in fair value of investment property
(4,085)
(253)
(+) Share of results of equity accounted investees
1,898
4,159
(+) Depreciation and amortisation
8,560
7,986
(-) Exchange gain
(12,889)
(1,910)
30,030
16,191
(-) Adjustments relating to policyholders at UA*
768
582
Group EBITDA
29,262
15,609
* Adjustments to arrive at the EBITDA solely attributable to the shareholders of the Group.
(30)
(20)
(10)
0
10
20
30
40
Composition of EBITDA
Composition of EBITDA
(%)
(%)
Transportation 
Leisure
Retail
Consumer Foods
Property
Financial Services
Other, incl.
Information
Technology
& Plantation Services 
23.1
2.9
21.3
12.0
35.4
25.8
(22.9)
13.3
(0.1)
23.4
17.2
19.9
18.8
10.1
FY21
FY22
In terms of the composition of EBITDA, Retail was the primary contributor with a 26 per cent 
contribution, followed by Other, including Information Technology and Plantation Services and 
Financial Services with a contribution of 19 per cent and 17 per cent, respectively.
Since Group EBITDA is affected by one-off impacts, the ensuing section discusses EBITDA on a 
recurring basis, excluding the one-off impacts. 
Fair Value Gains/Losses on Investment 
Property
Fair value impacts on investment property 
(IP) were recorded at a loss of Rs.4.08 billion 
in 2021/22 [2020/21: loss of Rs.253 million], 
primarily owing to an impairment loss on 
IP at Waterfront Properties (Private) Limited 
(WPL). Property (excluding WPL), Leisure, 
Other, including Information Technology and 
Plantation Services, and Consumer Foods 
industry groups recorded IP gains of Rs.614 
million, Rs.105 million, Rs.81 million and Rs.17 
million, respectively. 
Recurring EBITDA
The recurring performance analysis entails 
the removal of one-off impacts in order to 
demonstrate the performance of the core 
operations of the businesses.
For the recurring performance analysis, EBITDA 
is adjusted for the one-off impacts in the 
Transportation companies, the impairment 
loss on investment property (IP) at WPL and fair 
value gains and losses on IP, other than at the 
Property industry group.
On this basis, the recurring EBITDA for the year 
under review recorded a significant increase of 
152 per cent to Rs.39.26 billion, compared to 
Rs.15.57 billion recorded in the previous year. 
While exchange gains and losses are excluded 
in the recurring EBITDA analysis, it should be 
noted that the Office Automation business 
recorded exchange losses on account of the 
significant depreciation of the LKR impacting 
its outstanding trade payables. The business 
also recorded exchange gains prior to the steep 
depreciation of the LKR. The recurring EBITDA 
breakdown for each of the industry groups are 
given in the ensuing section. 
Group PBT
Rs.27.32bn
2020/21: Rs.5.45 bn
402%
Recurring Group PBT
Rs.24.43bn
2020/21: Rs.3.50 bn
599%
Group PAT
Rs.20.44bn
2020/21: Rs.3.95 bn
417%
Recurring Group PAT
Rs.20.76bn
2020/21: Rs.2.00 bn
936%

45
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
 For a detailed industry-group wise analysis refer the Industry Group Reviews - page 70
Recurring EBITDA Margins (%)
2021/22
2020/21
Transportation
14.0
13.6
Consumer Foods
16.6
20.1
Retail
8.3
7.9
Leisure
20.0
(66.8)
Property
19.0
(0.9)
Financial Services
20.8
17.4
Other, incl. Information Technology & Plantation Services
133.8
78.0
Group
16.1
10.7
Depreciation and Amortisation 
The depreciation and amortisation expense for the year stood at Rs.8.56 billion, an increase of 7 per 
cent against the depreciation for 2020/21 at Rs.7.99 billion. It is noted that the depreciation and 
amortisation expense also includes the amortisation of lease liabilities as per SLFRS 16 - Leases.
The increase in the depreciation and amortisation expense primarily stems from:
 y
the Supermarket business, driven by an increase in assets on account of the roll-out of 5 
new outlets and the acquisition of leasehold land and capitalisation costs pertaining to the 
advanced data analytics transformation programme; and 
 y
the Maldivian Resorts segment, primarily on account of the translation impact stemming from 
the amortisation of leases across the Maldivian Resorts given its US Dollar denomination.
Finance Income
Group finance income stood at Rs.30.81 billion during the year under review, an increase of 188 per 
cent [2020/21: Rs.10.69 billion], the composition of which is given in the table below. 
Finance Income (Rs.million)
2021/22
2020/21
Interest income from life insurance policy holder funds at UA
 5,333 
 5,020
Interest income of Group excluding UA
 6,421 
 3,596
Other finance income
 19,052 
 2,073
Total
 30,806
10,689 
 y
Interest income associated with UA of Rs.5.33 billion [2020/21: Rs.5.02 billion], net of related 
costs, is classified under operating segment results on the basis that the interest income from 
life insurance funds is considered as operational income.
 y
The interest income of the Group, excluding 
UA, increased to Rs.6.42 billion [2020/21: 
Rs.3.60 billion]. The increase in interest 
income is owing to higher cash and cash 
equivalents at the Holding Company on 
account of the entire USD 175 million term 
loan facility from the IFC being available 
throughout the current financial year as 
opposed to approximately 6-9 months of 
the previous financial year. Whilst this reflects 
an increase in interest income on a 'gross' 
basis, the related interest expense is recorded 
under finance expense and therefore does 
not have a material 'net' impact.
 y
The increase in other finance income to 
Rs.19.05 billion is primarily attributable to 
the increase in the exchange rate gains 
to Rs.18.63 billion compared to Rs.1.64 
billion in the preceding year, mainly on 
account of the exchange rate impact 
on the Holding Company's net foreign 
currency denominated cash holdings. The 
foreign currency cash holdings include the 
funds earmarked for the equity infusions 
of the 'Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort' 
project and the funds raised for the Group's 
investment pipeline via the IFC term 
loan facility and the private placement of 
ordinary shares to ADB.
 Further details on finance income can 
be found in the Notes to the Financial 
Statements section of this Report - page 244
Finance Expense
The finance expense, which includes interest 
expense of the Group, increased by 51 per 
cent to Rs.7.03 billion, compared to Rs.4.67 
billion recorded in 2020/21. The increase in 
the total debt level of the Group including 
lease liabilities, by Rs.95.32 billion to Rs.268.23 
billion [2020/21: Rs.172.90 billion] primarily 
contributed to the increase in finance expenses. 
2021/22
Reported 
EBITDA
Recurring Adjustments
2021/22
Recurring
EBITDA
2020/21
Recurring
EBITDA
%
Rs.million
IP (gains)
/losses
One-off
adjustments
Transportation
843
- 
5,298*  
6,141
3,610
70
Consumer Foods
3,502
 (17)
-  
3,485
3,318
5
Retail
7,549
- 
-  
7,549
5,523
37
Leisure
3,890
 (105)
-
3,785
(3,588)
205
Property
2,965
- 
4,902** 
7,867
(17)
45,451
Financial Services
5,024
- 
-  
5,024
3,645
38
Other, incl. Information Technology & Plantation Services
5,489
 (81)
-  
5,408
3,082
75
Total
29,262
 (203)
10,200** 
39,259
15,572
152
* One-off impacts at SAGT, LMS and SAL, as detailed in page 42. 
** Impairment loss on investment property (IP) at WPL.

46 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Capital Management Review
Financial and Manufactured Capital
The key reasons that contributed to the increase in finance expense are:
 y
Holding Company – on account of (1) an increase in Rupee borrowing costs in line with the 
planned funding strategy of the Group as at this juncture and, to a lesser extent, (2) the long-term 
loan facility of USD 175 million obtained from IFC and the inherent translation impact due to the 
steep depreciation in the exchange rate during the latter end of the year under review. However, 
as noted, this reflects the interest cost on a 'gross' basis as the related interest income is recorded 
under finance income and therefore did not have a material 'net' impact at this point in time.
 y
Supermarket businesses – in lieu of the facilities obtained for the funding of the roll-out of new 
outlets and the distribution centre. 
 y
Leisure industry group – due to the multiple working capital facilities obtained across the 
businesses to better navigate through the challenges stemming from the impact of closures 
and lower operational activity due to the COVID-19 pandemic in the recent years.
In terms of composition, the largest contributor to finance expense was Other, including 
Information Technology and Plantation Services, accounting for 43 per cent of total finance 
expense, followed by Retail (27 per cent) and Leisure (19 per cent).
0
10
20
30
40
50
Composition of Finance Expense
Composition of Finance Expense
(%)
(%)
Transportation 
Leisure
Retail
Consumer Foods
Property
Financial Services
Other, incl.
Information
Technology
& Plantation Services 
1.7
2.4
3.2
2.6
36.0
26.6
25.6
19.3
0.4
5.9
4.6
27.4
42.6
2.0
FY21
FY22
Finance expense incurred under the syndicated project development facility of 'Cinnamon Life 
Integrated Resort' is capitalised as work-in-progress, in accordance with the Group's accounting 
policy, and in keeping with accounting standards, under other non-current assets.
The interest cover of the Group, excluding unrealised losses on UA's equity portfolio, stood at 
3.1 times in comparison to 1.8 times in 2020/21. The movement in the interest coverage stems 
primarily from the 167 per cent increase in EBIT as against a 51 per cent increase in finance 
expense, as outlined in the previous section.
0
2,000
4,000
6,000
8,000
Finance Expense and Interest Coverage
Finance Expense and Interest Coverage
(Rs. Mn)
(Rs. Mn)
(Times)
(Times)
521
2,635
3,105
4,395
6,716
0
10
20
30
40
50
44.2
10.7
4.4
1.8
3.1
FY18
FY19
FY20
FY21
FY22
Finance expense, excl. unrealised losses on UA's equity portfolio 
Interest cover
Profit Before Tax
The Group profit before taxation (PBT) stood at Rs.27.32 billion for the year under review, an 
increase of 402 per cent [2020/21: Rs.5.45 billion].
For the recurring performance analysis, the reported PBT is adjusted for net foreign exchange gains/
losses, Group IP gains/losses other than at the Property industry group, one-off impacts at the 
Transportation companies and the impairment loss on investment property at WPL as detailed under 
the Recurring Adjustments section. On this basis, the recurring Group PBT stood at Rs.24.43 billion for 
the year under review, a 599 per cent increase against the previous year [2020/21: Rs.3.50 billion].
Taxation
The Group tax expense increased by 361 per 
cent to Rs.6.88 billion during the year under 
review [2020/21: Rs.1.49 billion]. The Group 
tax expense primarily comprises of a current 
tax charge of Rs.3.25 billion and a deferred tax 
charge of Rs.3.43 billion. 
The effective tax rate (ETR) on Group profits 
decreased to 25 per cent, as against 27 per 
cent recorded in 2020/21. 
The increase in the tax expense is primarily 
attributable to a deferred tax provision at the 
Holding Company. As noted previously, the 
significant foreign currency exchange gain 
at the Holding Company for the year under 
review, will be taxed upon realisation as per 
the current tax regulations. Hence, a deferred 
tax provision was recognised in 2021/22. A 
notable increase in performance across most 
businesses, barring the Leisure and Property 
industry groups, also contributed to an 
increase in the tax expense.
Other, including Information Technology 
and Plantation Services, Retail and Consumer 
Foods were the highest contributors to the 
Group tax expense with Rs.4.46 billion, Rs.872 
million and Rs.681 million, respectively. 
 For further details on tax impacts, refer 
the Notes to the Financial Statements 
section of this Report - page 246
Profit After Tax 
The Group profit after taxation (PAT) stood at 
Rs.20.44 billion for the year under review, an 
increase of 417 per cent [2020/21: Rs.3.95 billion].
As indicated in the ensuing graph, the 
highest contributors to Group PAT were, 
Other, including Information Technology 
and Plantation Services, Financial Services 
and Consumer Foods with contributions of 
Rs.16.63 billion [2020/21: Rs.2.36 billion], Rs.4.31 
billion [2020/21: Rs.2.50 billion] and Rs.1.92 
billion [2020/21: Rs.2.16 billion], respectively.
For the recurring performance analysis, the 
reported PAT is adjusted for all the impacts 
detailed under the Recurring Adjustments 
section. On this basis, the recurring Group PAT 
increased by 936 per cent to Rs.20.76 billion 
[2020/21: Rs.2.00 billion]

47
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
The breakdown of Group PAT into PAT attributable to equity holders and non-controlling interest 
(NCI) is as follows:
Rs.million
2021/22
2020/21
% 
PAT attributable to equity holders
 20,213 
 4,772 
324
Non-controlling interest (NCI)
 230 
 (821)
128
Group PAT
 20,443 
 3,951 
417
Non-Controlling Interests (NCI)
PAT attributable to shareholders with NCI stood at Rs.230 million in 2021/22, a 128 per cent 
increase primarily on account of better profitability at the Leisure industry group, in which the 
Group owns effective stakes of ~80 per cent. An improvement in the profitability of the Group's 90 
per cent owned insurance business, UA, also contributed to the increase in PAT attributable to NCI.
However, the impact was partially offset by lower profitability at Ceylon Cold Stores PLC and mall 
operations at Asian Hotels and Properties PLC. 
Performance of the Holding Company
Rs.million
2021/22
2020/21
% 
Revenue
1,876
1,637
15
Dividend income
8,008
8,346
(4)
Finance income
24,198
4,617
424
Finance expenses
(2,966)
(1,245)
138
Profit before tax
28,284
11,367
149
Recurring profit before tax*
10,163
9,725
5
Profit after tax
24,386
10,566
131
Recurring profit after tax**
9,475
8,924
6
*Adjusted for impacts of foreign exchange gains and losses and the impairment loss at SAL as detailed previously. 
**In addition to the adjustments under PBT, this has also been adjusted for the one-off deferred tax impact at JKH.
 y
The increase in revenue is primarily on account of higher commercial fees for the data 
analytics services rendered by OCTAVE - the Data and Advanced Analytics Centre of 
Excellence of the Group and fees from equity accounted investees.
 y
Dividend income in 2020/21 includes dividend that were originally payable in March 2020, 
although deferred at the time given the uncertainty due to unprecedented nature of the 
COVID-19 pandemic. This was subsequently paid in 2020/21 upon recovery of business 
performance.
 y
Finance income which comprises of both interest income and net exchange gains on the 
Group's USD denominated net cash balance, recorded a significant increase due to the steep 
depreciation of the currency towards the latter end of the year under review. The foreign 
PAT Attributable to Equity Holders of 
the Parent (Net Profit)
PAT attributable to equity holders of the parent 
increased by 324 per cent to Rs.20.21 billion 
[2020/21: Rs.4.77 billion]. The net profit margin 
of the Group increased to 8.3 per cent from 3.3 
per cent in the previous year. The recurring net 
profit attributable to equity holders increased 
by 685 per cent to Rs.20.41 billion [2020/21: 
Rs.2.60 billion], whilst the recurring net profit 
margin of the Group increased to 8.4 per cent, 
against the 1.8 per cent in 2020/21.
currency cash holdings include the funds 
earmarked for the equity infusions of the 
'Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort' project 
and the funds raised for the Group's 
investment pipeline via the IFC term 
loan facility and the private placement of 
ordinary shares to ADB.
 y
Finance costs recorded an increase during 
the year on account of (1) an increase in 
Rupee borrowing costs in line with the 
planned funding strategy of the Group 
as at this juncture and, to a lesser extent, 
(2) the long-term loan facility of USD 175 
million obtained from IFC and the inherent 
translation impact due to the steep 
depreciation in the exchange rate during 
the latter end of the year under review. 
However, as noted, this reflects the interest 
cost on a 'gross' basis as the related interest 
income will be recorded under Finance 
Income and therefore does not have a 
material 'net' impact at this point in time.
(200)
0
100
Composition of Group Profit After Tax 
Composition of Group Profit After Tax 
(%)
(%)
Transportation 
Leisure
Retail
Consumer Foods
Property
Financial Services
Other, incl.
Information
Technology
& Plantation Services 
82.2
3.6
54.6
9.4
39.7
(4.2)
(192.3)
(6.4)
(7.0)
63.2
21.1
59.6
81.3
(4.8)
FY21
FY22
≈
(Rs.mn)
(%)
Net Profit and Net Profit Margin
Net profit
Net profit margin
0
5,000
10,000
15,000
20,000
25,000
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
21,021
14,254
9,414
4,772
20,213
15.3
9.3
6.0
3.3
8.3
FY18
FY19
FY20
FY21
FY22

48 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Capital Management Review
Financial and Manufactured Capital
Financial Position
Assets
Assets
Equity and Liabilities
Equity and Liabilities
(Rs.mn)
(Rs.mn)
(Rs.mn)
(Rs.mn)
Property, plant and equipment, leasehold rentals paid in
advance, investment property and other non-current assets
Investments in subsidiaries, associates and non-current
financial assets
Current assets, deferred tax assets and intangible assets
Shareholders' funds
Non-controlling interests
Non-current liabilities
Current liabilities
FY20
FY21
FY22
FY22
FY21
FY20
436,944
536,794
717,796
717,796
536,794
436,944
243,295
68,408
125,241
172,433
91,220
273,141
389,357
311,311
226,157
216,852
26,872
135,894
57,326
16,830
222,102
71,705
18,780
258,095
129,609
82,556
245,883
Group Assets
Group's total assets as at 31 March 2022 stood at Rs.717.80 billion, an increase of Rs.181.00 billion 
[2020/21: Rs.536.79 billion], primarily driven by an increase in other non-current assets, an increase 
in short-term investments and cash in hand and at bank. The increase in other non-current assets 
is primarily on account of construction costs pertaining to the 'Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort'. 
Cash in hand and at bank, short-term investments and deposits with a maturity between 1 and 3 
years held at the Holding Company increased to Rs.163.10 billion [2020/21: Rs.105.43 billion] on 
account of: 
 y
The proceeds received from phase 1 of the private placement of ordinary shares to ADB for a 
consideration of the LKR equivalent of USD 50 million. 
 y
The translation impact on the USD denominated cash holdings at the Holding Company. The 
foreign currency cash holdings include the funds earmarked for the equity infusions of the 
'Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort' project and the funds raised for the Group's investment 
pipeline via the debt drawdown from the IFC term loan facility and the private placement of 
ordinary shares to ADB.
Insights
In November 2021, the Company resolved to raise funds through a private placement of 
ordinary shares for a maximum cumulative amount of the LKR equivalent of USD 80 million to 
ADB in two phases. 
 y
In January 2022, the first phase of the above transaction was completed where JKH issued 
65,042,006 ordinary shares at Rs.154.50 per share to ADB for a consideration of the LKR 
equivalent of USD 50 million. 
 y
Additionally, in terms of the second phase, the Company also issued non-tradable/non-
transferable options, entitling ADB to subscribe for additional 39,025,204 new ordinary 
shares of the Company, for an investment amount of up to a maximum of the LKR 
equivalent of USD 30 million. 
 y
ADB has the option of exercising the aforementioned options between 19 October 2022 
and 18 January 2023 at an option exercise price, which would be based on the volume 
weighted average price of the Company's ordinary shares as quoted on the Colombo 
Stock Exchange during the 90 calendar days ending immediately prior to the option 
exercise date, subject to the floor price of Rs.165.00 and cap price of Rs.200.00. If exercised, 
this would result in strengthening the cash position of the Group by a range of ~Rs.6.4 
billion - Rs.7.8 billion, based on the floor price and cap price, respectively. 
Working Capital/Liquidity
Rs.million
2021/22 2020/21
% 
Current assets
238,929
166,491
44
Current liabilities
129,609
71,705
81
Working capital
109,320
94,786
15
Current Assets: The increase in current assets 
is primarily driven by an increase in cash in 
hand and at bank and short-term investments, 
as explained under Group Assets. 
Current Liabilities: Current liabilities recorded 
an 81 per cent increase, primarily owing to 
an increase in the current portion of interest-
bearing loans and borrowings by Rs.31.12 
billion, bank overdrafts by Rs.8.50 billion, 
trade and other payables by Rs.8.18 billion 
and short-term borrowings by Rs.7.93 billion, 
respectively. 
The USD 395 million original syndicated loan at 
the 'Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort' project 
was refinanced in December 2021 through a 
USD 225 million long-term loan facility and a 
six-month bridging facility of USD 100 million, 
which was structured in order to align with the 
maturity date of July 2022 of the original facility. 
The increase in current liabilities is due to this 
six-month bridging facility of USD 100 million 
which is due for repayment in June 2022. 
Cash Flow 
Cash and cash equivalents in the Statement of 
Cash Flows comprise of cash and short-term 
investments with a maturity of three months 
or less, and net of outstanding bank overdrafts. 
On this basis, as at 31 March 2022, cash and 
cash equivalents increased by Rs.101.50 billion 
to Rs.134.56 billion.
 y
Net cash flow from operating activities 
reflected an inflow of Rs.30.44 billion for 
2021/22, primarily on account of increased 
cash generation from operations and 
higher net finance income. 
 y
Net cash flow from investment activities 
reflected an inflow of Rs.39.36 billion, 
primarily due to decreases in short-term 
investments with a maturity of more than 
three months, at the Holding Company.
 y
Net cash flow from financing activities 
was an inflow of Rs.31.69 billion, primarily 
on account of the private placement 
of ordinary shares to ADB for the LKR 
equivalent of USD 50 million and an 
increase in borrowings across Group 
businesses, as outlined in detail in the 
ensuing section.

49
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Leverage and Capital Structure
The ensuing details the sources by which the 
total assets of the Group as at the period end, 
were funded.
Total assets of 
Rs.717.80 billion as at 31 March 2022
Funding channels
Shareholder funds
43%
Non-controlling interest
3%
Long-term funding/creditors
36%
Short-term funding/creditors
18%
Group Debt and Net Debt/Cash
Group debt (excluding lease liabilities) 
amounted to Rs.234.70 billion which is a 59 
per cent increase compared to the Rs.147.20 
billion recorded in 2020/21. The notable 
increase in the Group debt position is primarily 
on account of the translation impact of its 
foreign currency denominated debt on 
account of the steep depreciation of the 
Rupee in March 2022, although this impact is 
partially negated at a net debt level given the 
USD cash holdings of the Group which also 
benefited from the translation impact. The 
Group recorded a net debt position (excluding 
lease liabilities) of Rs.77.61 billion, a 59 per cent 
increase against the net debt position in the 
preceding year, which stood at Rs.48.71 billion. 
The increases in Group debt (including lease 
liabilities) were primarily from Property, 
Other, including Information Technology and 
Plantation Services, and Transportation industry 
groups with additions of Rs.42.77 billion, Rs.24.95 
billion and Rs.8.96 billion, respectively. The 
increase in Group debt, excluding leases, are 
mainly attributable to the following:
 y
Property industry group – primarily due 
to the translation impact on the foreign 
currency denominated syndicate debt 
facilities at Waterfront Properties (Private) 
Limited (project company of the 'Cinnamon 
Life Integrated Resort'), given the steep 
depreciation of the Rupee in the latter end 
of the year under review.
 y
Holding Company - drawdown of Rupee facilities in line with the planned funding strategy of 
the Group, as at this juncture, and due to the translation impact on the USD 175 million long-
term loan facility obtained from the IFC. 
 y
Transportation industry group - primarily stemming from an increase in short-term borrowings 
at LMS to finance working capital requirements given the steep increase in fuel oil prices. 
 y
Leisure industry group - term loans and overdraft facilities in order to sustain working capital 
requirements and to lesser extent, fund maintenance related capital expenditure.
Insights - Managing the Group's foreign currency exposure
The steep depreciation of the Rupee witnessed during the latter end of the year had the 
following implications on the Group's financial position:
 y
Gross debt noted a significant increase, particularly given the exposure of the USD 175 
million long-term loan facility at the Holding Company and the USD 225 million long-term 
loan facility and a six-month bridging facility of USD 100 million at Waterfront Properties 
(Private) Limited.
 y
The Holding Company maintained a strong net cash position. The foreign currency cash 
holdings include the funds earmarked for the equity infusions of the 'Cinnamon Life 
Integrated Resort' project and the funds raised for the Group's investment pipeline via 
the debt drawdown from the IFC term loan facility and the private placement of ordinary 
shares to ADB. 
 y
At a Group level, the translation risk is also largely hedged 'naturally' as a result of the 
conscious strategy of matching liabilities against foreign currency denominated revenue 
streams, to the extent possible.
 y
It is pertinent to note that the pressures on the exchange rate exposure arising from the 
'Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort' project is mitigated to a large extent as the functional 
currency of Waterfront Properties (Private) Limited, its project company, is US Dollars. 
 y
Similarly, at present, there is no foreign exchange translation risk on the IFC loan since the 
cash is retained in foreign currency at the Holding Company.
Insights - Refinancing of the USD 395 million syndicated loan facility at 'Cinnamon 
Life Integrated Resort'
In December 2021, Waterfront Properties (Private) Limited (WPL), the project company of 
'Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort' refinanced the USD 395 million syndicated loan through a 
USD 225 million long-term loan facility and a six-month bridging facility of USD 100 million, 
which was structured in order to align with the maturity date of July 2022 of the original USD 
395 million facility.
 y
The USD 225 million facility was concluded at a rate similar to the previous facility taking 
into account step-down pricing mechanisms based on pre-agreed triggers. 
 y
The facility is a 5-year loan with a 2-year grace period and back-ended capital payments.
Although Group debt recorded a significant increase, the net debt position (excluding lease 
liabilities) of the Group was Rs.77.61 billion due to the cash balances held at the Holding Company 
level. This is largely due to the IFC loan which does not have an impact on net debt as the loan 
drawdown is retained as cash at the Holding Company. 
Accordingly, the increase in the net debt position, barring the impact of leases, stemmed from the 
increase in Rupee borrowings at the Holding Company and from the Property and Leisure industry 
groups, due to the reasons outlined above. The impact of the Transportation industry group on 
Group debt did not flow through to net debt, given that the industry also accumulated notable 
cash reserves during the year under review. 

50 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Capital Management Review
Financial and Manufactured Capital
It should be noted that both Group debt and 
net debt excludes lease liabilities recorded 
from the adoption of SLFRS 16 – Leases. Lease 
liabilities as at 31 March 2022 stood at Rs.33.53 
billion, a 30 per cent increase against last year 
[2020/21: Rs.25.71 billion]. Additionally, net debt 
also excludes short-term investments of the life 
fund of UA, the restricted regulatory fund of UA 
and customer advances from 'Cinnamon Life 
Integrated Resort', as applicable. 
Where businesses have foreign currency 
denominated income streams, borrowings in 
foreign currency are obtained to match such 
cashflows naturally while also optimising 
on the comparatively lower cost of foreign 
currency debt. This strategy has been 
practiced in the Leisure industry group, in 
particular, where foreign currency receipts are 
regularly monitored to proactively evaluate 
the borrowing capacity of the business. 
Currently, ~Rs.168.09 billion of overall debt 
is denominated in foreign currency, which 
translates to ~84 per cent of total debt 
[2020/21: 71 per cent]. 
Despite the significant increase 
in the cost of Rupee debt and 
tightening credit conditions 
in the country, the Group is 
confident of its ability to fund 
its pipeline of projects and 
expansion plans, if feasible, 
thereby optimising equity 
returns in the long run.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Group cash and cash equivalents as at 31 March 2022 stood at Rs.163.10 billion against Rs.105.43 
billion in 2020/21; the increase is on account of the reasons outlined under the Cash Flow section. 
Group cash and cash equivalents comprise of Rs.52.38 billion as cash in hand and at bank and 
Rs.110.72 billion under short-term investments. It is pertinent to note that, of this, the life fund at 
UA amounts to Rs.2.63 billion whilst the restricted regulatory fund at UA amounts to Rs.3.38 billion. 
In terms of the composition of the liquid assets of the Group, Other, including Information 
Technology and Plantation Services accounted for 71 per cent of cash and cash equivalents, of which 
a majority of assets are in the Holding Company, followed by the Financial Services industry group.
2021/22
2020/21
Current ratio 
(times)
1.8
 2.3 
Quick ratio 
(times)
1.6
 1.6 
Working capital 
(Rs.million)
109,320
 94,786 
Asset turnover 
(times)
0.4
 0.3 
Capital employed 
(Rs.million)
 598,319 
 415,891 
Total debt* 
(Rs.million)
 234,701 
 147,197 
Net debt/(cash)* 
(Rs.million)
77,611
 48,709 
Debt/equity ratio* 
(%)
 71.1 
 60.6 
Net debt/(cash) to equity ratio* 
(%)
23.5
 20.0 
Long-term debt to total debt* 
(%)
 67.7 
80.8
Debt/total assets* 
(%)
 32.7 
 27.4 
Debt/EBITDA* 
(times)
 8.0 
 9.4 
Net debt (cash)/EBITDA* 
(times)
2.7
 3.1 
*Excludes lease liabilities.
Despite the increase in gross debt levels due to the impact of the depreciation of the Rupee as 
explained above, the Group also benefited from a corresponding positive benefit on its cash 
holdings. As such, a more representative indicator such as the net debt/equity ratio indicates the 
Group's ability to fund its investment pipeline, as and when required. It should be noted that debt 
and net debt/EBITDA ratios have improved largely on account of the significant turnaround in 
EBITDA as the businesses across the Group witnessed a strong recovery momentum and a  
growth in overall performance during the year under review, with most businesses reaching pre 
COVID-19 levels. 
Despite the significant increase in the cost of Rupee debt and tightening credit conditions in the 
country, the Group is confident of its ability to fund its pipeline of projects and expansion plans, if 
feasible, thereby optimising equity returns in the long run. Although the current liquidity position 
of the Group creates space to undertake current and future investment commitments, the Group 
will continue to take proactive steps with a view to maintaining a strong balance sheet to remain 
resilient, particularly considering the volatile macroeconomic environment.
Statement of Changes in Equity
Total equity of the Group as at 31 March 2022 stood at Rs.330.09 billion, [2020/21: Rs.242.99 billion]. 
The increase was primarily in lieu of: 
 y
Other comprehensive income of Rs.58.80 billion, which was driven by an increase in the foreign 
currency translation reserve on account of the translation impact on its foreign currency 
denominated subsidiaries and equity accounted investees, in particular Waterfront Properties 
(Private) Limited. 
 y
Group profit after tax of Rs.20.44 billion during the year under review. 
 y
Phase 1 of the private placement of ordinary shares to the Asian Development Bank which was 
recorded at Rs.10.05 billion in the Statement of Changes in Equity. 
 For a discussion on the ROCE and ROE of the Group, refer Strategy, Resource Allocation and 
Portfolio Management – page 158 
Group Assets
Group Debt (excl. Lease Liabilities)
Net Debt / (Cash)
Net Debt / (Cash) to Equity Ratio
Rs.717.80bn
Rs.234.70bn
Rs.77.61bn
23.5%
2020/21: Rs.536.79 bn
2020/21: Rs.147.20 bn
2020/21: Rs.48.71 bn
2020/21: 20.0%
34%
59%
59%

51
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
The Group has in place a comprehensive environmental management system which focuses on policies and procedures that ensure sustainable principles 
are embedded in business operations and are conducted in a sustainable manner. These include energy conservation, carbon footprint reduction, 
optimisation of water usage, efficient waste management and conservation of biodiversity. The Group has identified material areas to minimise any 
negative impacts and externalities, and constantly strives to implement initiatives to conserve natural resources and create value for all stakeholders. The 
initiatives undertaken by the Group as a part of its commitment to managing Natural Capital are discussed in detail in the ensuing sections. 
Natural Capital
Focus areas and priority SDGs under Natural Capital
Related SDG focus areas the Group is working towards:
Key highlights for the year:
7. 
Affordable and Clean Energy
Continuing to increase the amount of renewable energy 
utilised and generated in the Group's energy mix.
 16% of the Group's energy 
requirement was met 
through renewable energy 
sources. 
 Established 2024/25 
energy, water and plastic 
reduction sustainability 
goals within the Group. 
 30% of treated water 
was recycled and reused 
to minimise freshwater 
extraction.
 3,186 GJ of energy saved 
through energy efficiency 
and other initiatives.
 Launched the 'Cinnamon 
Rainforest Restoration 
Project' which involves 
restoration of 59 acre 
degraded land, which is 
adjoining Sinharaja forest 
reserve, a world heritage site. 
 Biodiversity management 
plans were developed for 
selected areas. 
12.  Responsible Consumption and 
Production
Energy conservation through adopting efficient practices 
and alternatives. 
Optimising water usage by implementing efficiency 
improvements and awareness creation. 
Encouraging reuse and recycling of waste alongside 
responsible waste disposal.
13. Climate Action
Monitoring and managing the Group's carbon footprint 
through adopting alternatives to fossil fuels, where 
possible.
14. Life Below Water
Conservation of biodiversity and preservation of marine 
habitats.
15. Life on Land
Conservation of biodiversity and sustainable use of 
natural resources.
Three-year performance indicators:
2021/22
2020/21*
2019/20
Energy consumption: non-renewable sources (GJ) 1
301,172
216,253
 298,146
Energy consumption: non-renewable sources (GJ) per 
Rs.million of revenue
1.59
1.70
 2.13
Energy consumption: renewable sources (GJ) 2
127,825
132,706
 119,387
Energy consumption: renewable sources (GJ) per Rs.million 
of revenue
0.70
1.04
 0.85
Purchased energy: national grid (GJ) 3
390,294
349,195
 393,893
Purchased energy: national grid (GJ) per Rs.million of revenue
2.13
2.75
 2.82
Total energy consumption (1) + (2) + (3)
819,291
697,043
811,426
Direct greenhouse gas emissions - Scope 1 (MT)
27,507
15,894
 22,244
Indirect greenhouse gas emissions – Scope 2 (MT) 
71,188
66,114
 74,577
Total carbon footprint (MT)
98,695
82,009
 96,821
Total carbon footprint (MT) per Rs.million of revenue
0.53
0.64
 0.69
Greenhouse gas emissions from combustion of biomass (MT)
9,172
10,535
 9,792
Water withdrawal (m3)
1,940,542
1,677,672
 1,896,084
Water withdrawal (m3) per Rs.million of revenue
10.61
13.19
 13.57
Water discharge (m3)
1,305,676
1,091,384
 1,155,698
Volume of hazardous waste generated (MT)
274
279
 298
Volume of non-hazardous waste generated (MT)
8,026
6,484
 7,462
Non-hazardous waste recycled/reused by Group companies 
and through third party contractors (%)
31
22
 37
Significant environmental fines
Nil
Nil
 Nil
*2020/21 has been restated.
2024/25 Sustainability Goals
As published in the JKH Annual Report 
2020/21, Group businesses in furtherance 
of its Natural Capital management strategy 
established 2024/25 Sustainability Goals. 
The performance during the year against 
these committed Sustainability Goals are 
disclosed in the respective industry group 
sections of the report.
 Industry Group Review – page 70 
Energy and Carbon Footprint
The Group's energy consumption was 819,291 
GJ [2020/21: 698,154 GJ] during the year, 
which was derived from non-renewable 
sources such as diesel, petrol, furnace oil, 
LPG and jet fuel, renewable energy sources 
and the national grid. The increase in 
energy consumption during the year under 
review was primarily due to higher levels of 
operational activity, particularly in the Leisure 
and Transportation industry groups. 
Energy Conservation Efforts 
Given the Group's conscious emphasis 
on climate change and reducing 
dependence on fossil fuels, further 
investments were undertaken in solar 
power and use of biomass as forms of 
renewable energy. 
14 outlets under the Supermarket 
business installed solar panels during the 
year, increasing the total number of solar-
powered outlets to 80. Investments were 
also made at factories of the Consumer 
Foods industry group. 
Tea Smallholder Factories PLC (TSF) 
continued to fulfil 69 per cent of its energy 
requirement through biomass purchased 
from surrounding communities, thereby 
contributing to 2 per cent of the Group's 
carbon footprint. Such practices enable the 
Group to reduce its environmental impact 
and operational costs, whilst also providing 
means of livelihood for surrounding 
communities.

52 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Capital Management Review
Carbon footprint reduction from 
efficiency initiatives
(GJ)
Renewable Energy through Solar Power 
Plantation
Services
Consumer
Foods
Leisure
Retail
0
5,000
10,000
15,000
20,000
25,000
30,000
35,000
40,000
FY21
FY22
Leisure, Consumer Foods, and Retail industry groups were the largest consumers of energy, 
accounting for over 80 per cent of the energy consumed and 90 per cent of the carbon footprint 
of the Group as depicted below.
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
Energy Consumption by Industry Group  
Energy Consumption by Industry Group  
(GJ ’000)
(GJ ’000)
Transportation 
FY20
Leisure
Retail
Consumer Foods
Property
Financial Services
FY21
FY22
Other, incl.
Information
Technology
& Plantation Services 
*FY21 figures have been restated
2,603 MT
[2020/21: 6,296 MT]
3,186 GJ of energy saved through 
efficiency improvements
Carbon footprint reduction from renewable 
energy
Contributed towards:
8,536 MT
 in carbon footprint
Renewable energy usage 
of Group energy usage
127,825 GJ
16%
[2020/21: 132,706 GJ]
[2020/21: 19%]
[2020/21: 19%]
15
77
2
2
1 3
(%)
Carbon Footprint by Energy Type
LPG 
Petrol 
Furnace oil 
Diesel 
Jet fuel 
Electricity 
Similar to the previous year, the main contributor 
to the Group's carbon footprint was electricity 
from the national grid, followed by diesel, furnace 
oil, LPG, petrol, and jet fuel. Given that Sri Lanka's 
national grid is hydro-power based, the resultant 
carbon footprint is lower in contrast to countries 
producing power exclusively through fossil fuels.
The carbon footprint per Rs.million of 
revenue is on a declining trend signifying 
the Group's commitment towards reducing 
its carbon footprint.
(MT CO2 eq)
FY18
FY19
FY20
FY21
FY22
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
*FY21 figure has been restated
Water Management
The Group continued to roll-out initiatives 
with the aim of conserving water and 
worked on multiple awareness creation 
programmes whilst continuously monitoring 
and measuring usage from all sources such 
as ground water, inland surface water bodies, 
oceans, and pipe-borne water from the 
National Water Supply and Drainage Board 
sources. All water withdrawn by the Group is 
from non-water stressed areas. 
of treated water is recycled 
27%
 Further details on these initiatives are found in the Industry Group Review section of the Report – page 70
 For further details, refer the Industry 
Group Review section of the Report -  
page 70 
Water withdrawn 
1,940,542 m3 [2020/21: 1,677,672 m3]
of water treated 
30%
The Group continued to 
roll-out initiatives with the 
aim of conserving water 
and awareness creation 
programmes whilst 
continuously monitoring and 
measuring usage from all 
sources. All water withdrawn 
by the Group is from non-water 
stressed areas.
Natural Capital

53
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
The Group reported a reduction in water 
usage per Rs.million of revenue.
(MT CO2 eq)
FY18
FY19
FY20
FY21
FY22
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
*FY21 figure has been restated
The Group ensures compliance with 
regulatory standards, as per relevant 
environmental protection licenses (EPL) when 
discharging water to the environment and 
conducts recycling of treated effluent to bring 
it to stipulated levels for reuse.
Where feasible, the Group seeks to fulfil a part of its water requirement by means of green water 
sources through rainwater harvesting and reuse of treated water to minimise freshwater extraction. 
Given the nature of operations, the Leisure, Consumer Foods, Retail and Property industry groups 
accounted for the highest proportion of water consumed, with over 85 per cent of the Group's 
water consumed.
The Group's water withdrawal is further classified based on fresh water usage (less than 1,000 total 
dissolved solids) and other water usage (more than 1,000 total dissolved solids) as shown below. 
0
200
400
600
800
1,000
Water Withdrawn by Industry Group
Water Withdrawn by Industry Group
(m3 000)
(m3 000)
Transportation 
Leisure
Retail
Consumer Foods
Property
Financial Services
Other, incl.
Information
Technology
& Plantation Services 
FY20
FY21
FY22
15.2
45.1
(%)
Water Withdrawal by Source
10.0
29.7
Surface water  
Ground water 
Sea water 
Third party water -
municipality
(m3 000)
Water Withdrawn by Category
Surface
water
Ground
water
Sea
water
Third party
water
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
Fresh water  
Other water
Water treatment plant 'Cinnamon Citadel Kandy'.
8.1
13.7
42.0
(%)
Water Discharge by Method
35.6
0.6
Surface water
Ground water
Sea
Third party: municipality
Third party: provided to another organisation
During the period under review, the Group 
discharged 1,305,676 cubic meters of 
effluent, all of which were discharged to 
non-water stressed areas and categorised as 
fresh water (less than 1,000 total dissolved 
solids). 30 per cent of the water was treated 
using on-site sewage treatment plants at 
various operational locations prior to being 
discharged, whilst 27 per cent of treated water 
was completely recycled. Such water was 
utilised for general cleaning and gardening 
purposes.
 For further details, refer Industry Group 
Review section of the Report - page 70 

54 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Capital Management Review
Natural Capital
Waste Management
Total waste generated by the Group recorded 
an increase to 8,051 MT primarily in lieu of 
higher operational activity with the easing 
of impacts of the pandemic, particularly in 
the Leisure industry group. Of the total waste 
generated, 216 MT was classified as hazardous 
waste and disposed after recycling using 
specialised third-party contractors. 29 per cent 
of the non-hazardous waste generated was 
recycled or reused by the Group's business 
units through selected third-party contractors. 
Leisure, Consumer Foods and Retail industry 
groups accounted for over 90 per cent of the 
waste generated by the Group.
 For further details, refer the Industry 
Group Review section of the Report - 
page 70 
Waste generated
of waste recycled or reused 
'Plasticcycle' bins islandwide
8,301 MT
31%
250
[2020/21: 6,763 MT]
Awareness creation flyers circulated via online platforms.
0
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500
3,000
3,500
Waste Generated by Industry Group 
Waste Generated by Industry Group 
(kg '000)
(kg '000)
Transportation 
Leisure
Retail
Consumer Foods
Property
Financial Services
Other, incl.
Information
Technology
& Plantation Services 
FY20
FY21
FY22
15.3
11.4
0.8
1.0
15.1
4.7
51.7
(%)
Non-hazardous Waste Disposal by Method
Reuse
Recycling
Composting
Recovery
Incineration
Deep well injection
Landfill
66
2
3
2
4
3
20
(%)
Waste by Composition 
Organic
Paper/carboard
Plastic/ polythene
E-waste
Hazardous metal  
Non-hazardous metal 
Glass/ceramic 
Other hazardous 
Other non-hazardous
Continued efforts towards waste reduction 
resulted in waste generated per Rs.million of 
revenue depicting a declining trend. 
(MT)
FY18
FY19
FY20
FY21
FY22
0.00
0.01
0.02
0.03
0.04
0.05
0.06
0.07
0.08
*FY21 figure has been restated
Zero Waste Day
Similar to the previous year, the Group continued the Zero Waste Day initiative which aims to 
discourage employees from bringing single-use plastic to work and their homes. As a part of 
this initiative, various awareness creation strategies were deployed, including suggestions to 
minimise waste at home and the workplace, information on alternatives and facts relating to 
waste and other sustainability related best practices which were communicated to employees 
regularly via online platforms. 
29 per cent of the non-
hazardous waste generated 
was recycled or reused by 
the Group's business units 
through selected third-party 
contractors.

55
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
'Plasticcycle' Social Entrepreneurship Project
Over 250 recyclable plastic waste collection 
bins island-wide since its inception in 2017/18
The Group's Social Entrepreneurship Project – 'Plasticcycle', continued its initiatives to reduce 
plastic pollution in Sri Lanka, focusing on three key areas to drive change - creating awareness, 
supporting responsible disposal, and promoting recycling, despite the challenges posed by 
the pandemic.
Improving the collection mechanism and expanding the 'Plasticcycle' bin network: 
 y
Facilitation of the launch of a plastic waste collection centre in Borelasgamuwa, owned 
and operated by Zerotrash and funded by CCS PLC, under their CSR brand 'Gunadamin 
Elephant House'.
Supporting responsible disposal:
 y
'Plasticcycle' facilitated through 'AGC Innovate', to use Plastic Modified Asphalt Concrete 
(PMAC) to restructure and resurface roads at several business locations of the John 
Keells Group and its associated companies, such as 'The Suites at Cinnamon Life', Crescat 
Boulevard, the warehouse of John Keells PLC and South Asia Gateway Terminals.
Awareness creation:
 y
Encouraging the reduction in the use of single-use plastic continued through both virtual 
and on ground socially distanced awareness sessions, including the sponsorship of the 
World Ocean Summit 2021 organised by Pearl Protectors. 
 y
In order to reach a wider audience, the 'Plasticcycle' website 'www.plasticcycle.com' was 
revamped and relaunched as a trilingual website, which won the Silver award in the Non-
Profit category, as well as in the Best Mobile Optimised category at the Bestweb.LK awards 
this year.
~26.9 MT of recyclable plastic waste 
(equivalent of ~800,000 PET bottles) 
collected in 2021/22
CSR Environmental Initiatives
The John Keells Group is committed to 
conserving the environment for future 
generations as well as business sustainability 
and makes a conscious and collective effort 
to protect and promote environmental and 
biodiversity conservation through its social 
responsibility entity, John Keells Foundation (JKF). 
Below are the key projects undertaken by JKF. 
CSR Focus Area – Environment
Nature Field Centre, Rumassala 
The Nature Field Centre was closed for visitors 
until October 2021 due to pandemic related 
challenges. Upon easing of such restrictions, 5 
programmes were conducted, benefiting 192 
visitors. During the reporting year, a publicity 
video was in production towards enabling 
the centre to be self-sustainable in terms of 
awareness creation as well as promoting the 
property for hire for permitted private events. 
Paper Conservation 
The Group continued with its long-standing 
initiative to responsibly collect and recycle 
wastepaper disposed of by its businesses. 
 www.johnkeellsfoundation.com 
 Other environmental initiatives can be 
found in the Industry Group Review section 
of the report - page 70 
Asphalt Road at 'Cinnamon Life', together with AGC Innovate.
Construction of Asphalt road at 'Cinnamon Life'.
Zero Trash recyclable plastic collection centre at Borelesgamuwa.
Impact during 2021/22
Direct impact: 15,632 kg of waste paper 
collected for recycling and a monetary 
benefit of Rs.125,056. 
Indirect impact (reported savings):
266 trees
496,785 litres of water
62,528 kWh of electricity
27,434 litres of oil
47 m3 of landfill

56 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Capital Management Review
Natural Capital
'Cinnamon Rainforest Restoration 
Project'
JKF in partnership with 'Cinnamon 
Hotels & Resorts', Ruk Rakaganno (The 
Tree Society of Sri Lanka) and the Forest 
Department of Sri Lanka launched the 
'Cinnamon Rainforest Restoration Project' 
which involves the restoration of a 
degraded 59-acre plot in Suduwelipotha 
located in the Kalawana range in 
proximity to the Sinharaja forest reserve 
(a UNESCO World Heritage Site), over an 
initial period of three years. 
Natural forest regrowth is increasingly 
being seen as a viable climate change 
solution globally. This restoration project 
aims to conserve Sri Lanka's biodiversity 
and ecological significance of the region 
and is based on cultivating local flora 
whilst extracting invasive species that 
degrade the native plant regeneration. 
The following activities were undertaken 
in the year under review:
 y
Clearance of invasive plants in the 
entire extent of land with tree planting 
commencing in certain areas.
 y
Whilst 10,000 native plants were being 
raised by 15 community members, 
over 5000 pioneer species plants 
were nurtured at the site nursery 
maintained by the project. 
 y
The University of Colombo was 
engaged for continuous scientific 
monitoring of the ecological progress 
whilst a PhD student has been 
assigned to the project.
As one of the primary contributors to the Group's value creation process through its earning 
potential and productivity, the management of Human Capital is of vital importance. Attracting and 
retaining talent and motivating talent whilst providing development opportunities, enable the Group 
to ensure long-term sustainability of its operations. 
The Group's management systems and processes aim to ensure a safe working environment with 
equal opportunity provided to its diverse workforce. The Group's comprehensive approach to 
managing its Human Capital is founded on the core building blocks of 'inspiring people', 'caring for 
people' and 'leadership'. 
Focus areas and priority SDGs under Natural Capital
Related SDG focus areas the Group is 
working towards:
Key highlights for the year:
4.  Quality Education
Continuous investment in employees 
through learning, development, skill, and 
capacity building
 Launch of the learning management 
system 'BRIDGE' to further enhance 
e-learning. 
 33% female participation as at 31 March 
2022 against a goal of 40% by 2025/26. 
 Women-centric training initiatives were 
implemented with the aim of retaining 
and developing female talent. 
 Health and safety of all internal and 
external stakeholders were ensured 
through stringent procedures in place. 
 The Diversity, Equity and Inclusion policy 
was formalised in May 2022.
 Cognizant of the economic hardships 
faced by the Group employees on 
account of rising prices and the scarcity 
of essential items, the Group provided a 
one-off, uniform financial care package 
in the form of an ex-gratia payment, to 
all eligible Group employees during the 
month of April 2022. 
5.  Gender Equality
Prioritise gender equity, increase female 
participation and opportunities for 
leadership
8.  Decent Work and Economic 
Growth
Provision of a safe and healthy work 
environment for all employees.
10.  Reduced Inequalities
The Group is an equal opportunity 
employer and does not tolerate 
discrimination of any form.
Three-year performance indicators:
2021/22
2020/21*
2019/20
Total workforce (employees and contractors' staff)
21,200
20,092
20,578
Employees*
14,700
13,889
14,359
Outsourced personnel (neither staff employees nor 
seasonal workers)
6,500
6,203
6,219
Employee benefit liability as of 31 March (Rs.million)
3,107
2,330
2,344
Total attrition (%)
29
18
23
New hires (%)
76
47
65
Number of injuries
190
83
118
Number of people educated on serious diseases
Not 
conducted 
this year
Not 
conducted 
this year
29,630
Average hours of training per employee
25
23
44
No. of employees receiving performance reviews (%)
100
100
100
Incidences of child labour (below age 16)
0
0
0
Incidents of forced labour during the year
0
0
0
*Of the Group's total employees, 683 are placed in the Maldives, with the remainder domiciled in Sri Lanka.
Human Capital
Panel discussion of project partners at the 
media conference of the 'Cinnamon Rainforest 
Restoration' project.

57
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Agile Working Arrangements
The Group continued to further augment 
the agile working arrangements which were 
developed in response to the pandemic, 
with the aim of empowering employees to 
work remotely – with maximum flexibility 
and minimum constraints subject to the their 
role in the organisation – thereby optimising 
performance and sustaining productivity levels. 
Key measures adopted to this end, include:
 y
Reinforcement of the work arrangement 
protocol to serve as guidance for 
Group companies, to establish working 
arrangements to ensure business 
continuity and safety of both employees 
and other stakeholders.
 y
Continuous communication updates 
surrounding key developments and policy 
changes to stakeholders by the senior 
leadership, which was more prevalent 
towards the latter end of the year under 
review given the challenges on the 
macroeconomic front.
 y
All job roles were evaluated to determine 
the level of agility of each role and steps 
were taken to facilitate necessary work 
arrangements.
 y
A variety of virtual engagement initiatives, 
particularly focusing on mental health were 
launched throughout the year.
Employee Diversity, Equity and 
Inclusion 
During the year under review, the Group 
continued the commitment towards Diversity, 
Equity and Inclusion (DE&I) under the brand 
'ONE JKH', with many initiatives rolled-out with 
the aim of positively impacting the workforce, 
and value chain. 
Women-centric training initiatives
 y
With the aim of retaining and developing 
female talent; a quarterly forum named 
'WOICE' was launched in July 2021, where 
participants can engage with successful 
female career women. 
 y
Gender diversity of participants at 
all learning and development (L&D) 
programmes across the Group are now 
tracked via an L&D dashboard to ensure 
equal opportunity. 
Childcare support
 y
The commitment towards employer supported childcare was also reinforced with the Group 
onboarding a service provider for crèche facilities at a subsidised rate for Group Staff, in tandem 
with Children's Day in October 2021. Another crèche service provider was onboarded in 
February 2022. 
 y
'Parents Connect' – the Group's Parents Network was launched in July 2021 as a platform for 
parents in the Group to engage on relevant areas. Forums on timely topics such as 'Parenting in 
the Pandemic' were conducted. 
 y
The 'Winning over New Parents' toolkit was launched in April 2021, towards achieving 
higher maternity and paternity leave return rates, and to ensure that supervisors have timely 
conversations to better understand employee needs prior to and during such leave periods. 
Champions of Change Pledge
The Champions of Change Pledge taken by the Group Executive Committee and the Group 
Operating Committee in June 2021, formalised the leadership's commitment to ensure that Life 
at JKH is inclusive. The senior management of the Group participated in guided conversations, 
facilitated by an expert external resource person on addressing unconscious bias where personal 
commitments were made to better understand personal biases and to work towards addressing 
the stereotyping caused by these biases.
JKH Connect
 y
The inaugural issue of the annual bi-lingual DE&I Newsletter to John Keells Group supplier 
network, 'JKH Connect', was published in April 2021 to increase awareness of DE&I across the 
value chain partners and to encourage women-owned and women-led businesses. 
Other initiatives
 y
The inaugural Chairman's Award for DE&I was presented at the annual awards ceremony in 
November 2021.
 y
Group businesses launched their own initiatives targeting selected value chain partners. With 
regards to this, CCS launched 'Dirya Upahara', a recognition programme felicitating female 
distributors of Beverage business and 'Dinannee', a programme aimed at empowering female 
distributors of Frozen Confectionery business. 
SanNap programme
In March 2022, JKH entered into an agreement to offer all female employees of the John Keells 
Group with sanitary napkins, free of charge. Menstrual Health is a far-reaching topic, and the lack 
of education on menstrual health and limited access to essential sanitation, may have a negative 
impact on not only the physical and mental well-being of individuals, but also the productivity of 
females in the workforce. 
JKH and Hemas SanNap Programme - Signing of the Agreement.

58 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Capital Management Review
LGBTIQ
In September 2021, another key milestone was reached with the completion of the Inclusive 
Workplace Survey conducted in partnership with The National Transgender Network (NTN) and 
The Grassrooted Trust, to obtain a broad range of information on trans inclusivity in the corporate 
sector. During the same period, the Group joined IFC Sri Lanka's 'TWC+' ('Together We Can Plus), 
making commitments on inclusivity towards Persons with Disabilities. 
Female participation in the workforce
The Group businesses are currently working towards reaching the 5-year goal of 40 per cent 
women in the workforce by 2024/25, which was announced on International Women's Day 2021. 
As at 31 March 2022, the female participation stood at 33 per cent [2020/21: 30 per cent]. The 
Group continues to implement various initiatives, including recruitment and mentoring to increase 
women in non-traditional and leadership roles. 
Composition of Key Management Committees
7 member Board of Directors
 y
2 members are between the ages of 30-50 whilst 5 members are over the age of 50
 y
1 female director
7 Group Executive Committee (GEC) members (includes 2 Executive Directors)
 y
2 members are over 50 years whilst 5 members are between the ages of 30-50 years
 y
1 female member
13 Group Operating Committee (GOC) members (excluding GEC members)
 y
11 members are between the ages of 30-50 whilst 2 members are over the age of 50
 y
4 female members
Diversity indicators such as gender and age are monitored on an ongoing basis across the Group.
Group Gender Diversity
(%)
Group Diversity by Age and Type of Employment
(%)
Middle management by gender
Contractors’ personnel by gender
Workforce by gender
Total employees by gender
Female:18
Male: 82
Male: 59
Male: 64
Male: 67
Female: 36
Female: 33
Female: 41
0
20
40
60
80
100
Workforce by type of employment
Employees under 30 by gender
Employees under 25 by gender
Total employees by age
30 to 50: 37
< 30: 55
Female: 42
> 50: 8
Male: 58
Female: 42
Male: 58
Contract Employees: 30
Permanent Employees: 40
Contractors’  Personnel: 30
Talent Management 
The Group's talent management strategy 
focuses on developing, engaging and 
retaining high performing employees in 
improving business performance. This aims at 
enhancing the overall employee experience by 
promoting continuous engagement through 
various channels and interventions. The talent 
management module on HRIS facilitates 
the identification of talent pools, critical 
job roles and effective succession planning 
across the Group. Moreover, the internal job 
posting programme provides the Group with 
an opportunity to utilise its workforce more 
effectively by facilitating employee mobility 
across the Group. Career chats, skip level 
meetings, young forums and development 
plans have been put in place to encourage key 
talent to engage in various discussions with 
the senior leadership team regarding their 
career aspirations, development needs and 
how it can be addressed and to spearhead 
initiatives assigned to them.
The Group continued its employer branding 
strategies during the year under review and 
was actively involved in numerous virtual 
programmes organised by local universities.
 y
Participated in virtual career fairs organised 
by the University of Colombo and the 
University of Kelaniya. 
 y
The Group facilitated virtual mock 
interviews for the final year students at the 
University of Ruhuna, with constructive 
feedback and advice.
 y
Conducted a virtual workshop themed 
'Alternative pathways to Success' for 
students at the University of Ruhuna 
to equip them with workplace skills, to 
overcome challenges in a workplace and to 
showcase various career paths available.
 y
The Group conducted a mentoring session 
for the students at the University of Ruhuna 
to develop their skills in creating resumes 
and facing interviews.
 y
Participated as a consultant for the AIESEC 
NextGen Member Development Program 
which entailed one-to-one discussion with 
students on resume development and 
facing interviews. 
 y
OCTAVE, the Group's Centre of Excellence 
for Data and Advanced Analytics, 
collaborated with the Career Guidance Unit 
of Lyceum International School, Sri Lanka 
to conduct 'AI Made Easy', a data quiz along 
with a career guidance session.
Human Capital

59
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
The Group Management Trainee programme 
was completed for the fifteenth year, although 
virtually for the first time. The process and 
the selection criteria were changed with the 
intention of broad basing the talent pool and 
influencing the quality of candidates. 1,265 
candidates applied for the programme and 
636 were selected for the resume screening 
stage, of which 8 management trainees were 
hired to the Group. 
The Group closely monitors attrition which 
includes resignations and vacation of posts, 
with a particular focus on addressing attrition 
in sectors such as Information Technology and 
the Supermarket business, which inherently 
experience higher staff turnover levels. During 
the year under review, the Group's attrition 
rate was 29 per cent [2020/21: 18 per cent] 
and new hire attrition rate was 15 per cent 
[2020/21: 4 per cent]. Attrition amongst staff 
identified as 'Talent' has been insignificant, due 
to the added emphasis by senior management 
on their overall development. Executive level 
attrition has typically remained lower than non-
executive level attrition.
Human Resource Information System
 y
32 core HR processes in four sectors 
were outsourced to Infomate during 
the year under review.
 y
Improved visibility on performance, 
employer expectations and employee 
progression has led to greater 
connectivity between supervisors 
and their teams, which has assisted 
in adopting agile work practices 
seamlessly across the Group.
 y
The ability to monitor the future 
aspirations and interests of employees 
has benefited employers and 
employees alike in determining the best 
course of progression within the Group.
 y
Implementation of a Power BI HR 
dashboard which analyses HR data, 
enables the HR related decision-
making process to be simpler and 
easier for the senior leadership team.
0
20
40
60
80
100
Attrition by age 
Attrition by region
Attrition by gender
< 30: 82
Local: 98
Male: 58
 30 to 50 : 15
Group Total Attrition
Group Total Attrition
> 50 : 3
Foreign: 2
Female: 42
(%)
(%)
0
20
40
60
80
100
Attrition by age 
Attrition by region
Attrition by gender
< 30: 86
Local: 98
Male: 56
 30 to 50 : 13
Group New Hire Attrition
Group New Hire Attrition
> 50 : 1
Foreign: 2
Female: 44
(%)
(%)
Learning and Development 
Building on the Group's future-focused learning culture and the need to align to a dynamic 
learning environment, the year under review saw a more structured approach to learning 
digitisation across the Group. Further augmenting the e-learning ecosystems to execute learning 
initiatives in a timely and effective manner, in a year that continued to be challenging for in-person 
delivery was a key focus area during the year under review. 
The launch of the common learning management system 'BRIDGE' in the third quarter of the 
year under review, was one of the most significant milestones in the evolution of learning and 
development in the Group. 
 y
Designed to bring the learning to the employee and deliver value through a 
transformative learning experience that meets individual development needs, whilst 
catering to diverse learning styles, leveraging on social learning, and aligning with 
business purpose and performance. 
 y
BRIDGE connects with established learning management systems across the Group, and 
through this integration learners from different sectors have the ability to access generic 
learning content applicable for personal development and growth. 
 y
BRIDGE promotes social and engagement-based learning, that encourages real-time 
experience share, and healthy competition, which are manifested through features such as 
leaderboards, discussion forums, learning achievement badges, and certificates, whilst the 
course catalogues, and library items provide anytime accessible learning content, that is 
easily digestible. Learners can easily track their learning advancement and collaboratively 
develop in the learning experience through peer endorsements, whilst the reporting 
features on BRIDGE enable analytics driven insights on learning, people, and organisational 
development.
JKHMT 2021/22 - 'Cinnamon Life' Site Visit.
The Group embarked on piloting new learning initiatives through global service providers, creating 
more in-house developed digital learning content, and expanding the portfolio of micro-learning 
sessions facilitated through internal faculty. To this end:
 y
Some of the more established initiatives such as the Group Management Trainee programme 
and Group Development Centres were restructured to enable effective execution in a remote 
working environment. 
 Detailed discussions of business-specific initiatives aimed at attracting and retaining employees is 
found in the Industry Group Review section of the Report - page 70

60 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Capital Management Review
Human Capital
 y
The JKH Speakers' Club also consolidated a successful year.
 y
A new competition; All Stars, designed to identify home-grown talent in training delivery and 
presentation skills, was also introduced. 
 y
Aside from these new learning initiatives, Group inductions, competency-based programmes, 
development centres and new manager development programmes were deployed 
predominantly through online media. 
Training
2021/22
2020/21
Total training hours
363,278
315,547
Training hours per female employee
22
23
Training hours per male employee
26
23
 Detailed discussions of business-specific training initiatives for employees are found in the Industry 
Group Review section of the Report - page 70
JKHMT 2021/22 - Harrison Assessment Workshop.
(Hours)
Total Training Provided
AVP & above
Managers
Asst. managers
Executives
Non executives
0
50,000
100,000
150,000
200,000
250,000
300,000
350,000
497
2,975
6,885
30,003
322,918
The Group drives a high-performance culture, 
and a number of employee recognition 
schemes are available at both Group and 
business level to ensure that all employees 
feel appreciated, encouraged and recognised. 
Special budgetary allocations are made available 
every year for this purpose, with awards for 
innovation, disruptive digitisation, sustainability 
and CSR volunteerism also included in 
the Group's recognition schemes. Online 
recognition tools such as 'Badges' are available 
on the HRIS for employees to recognise and 
appreciate their colleagues for displaying Group 
Values, going the extra mile, for outstanding 
work and great teamwork, which are, in turn, 
recorded on employee profiles and linked 
to their performance appraisal. Continuous 
feedback is made available for employees 
to give and receive feedback from their 
colleagues which is shown in the performance 
management portal on the HRIS.
Financial and non-financial interventions 
to assist Group employees given the 
current challenging macroeconomic 
landscape.
Cognizant of the economic hardships 
faced by the Group employees on account 
of rising prices and the scarcity of essential 
items, JKH provided a one-off, uniform 
financial care package in the form of an 
ex-gratia payment, to all eligible Group 
employees during the month of April 2022. 
Further, a set of initiatives and programmes 
in the form of non-financial and indirect 
financial support are in the process of 
being rolled-out in order to address the 
hardships faced by employees and assist 
employees of the Group to bridge the cost 
of essential items. These include awareness 
sessions and webinars on managing 
personal finances in the current economic 
climate. 
Performance Appraisals and Recognition
The Group's performance cycle enables the identification of high performers and setting of 
succession plans whilst simultaneously providing development and training to employees 
requiring support. In addition to the bi-annual formal feedback sessions of the Group's 
performance cycle, continuous performance management (CPM) enables supervisors and teams 
to convert objectives into activities and record progress and feedback on a continuous basis. 
Further, the cloud-based HRIS system enables all performance appraisals and Career Committee 
reviews to be done remotely.
The Group drives a high-
performance culture, and 
a number of employee 
recognition schemes are 
available at both Group and 
business level to ensure that 
all employees feel appreciated, 
encouraged and recognised.

61
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Fire safety training conducted at KFP.
JKH Volunteers at the Kala Pola pop up sale.
Health and Safety 
The Group places significant emphasis on ensuring a safe place to work and any health and safety 
concerns are prioritised and addressed through robust management systems that are in place. This 
entails incidents being logged along with the cause of injury and severity, recorded and tracked on 
a continuous basis. 
Employees
Contractors' 
personnel
High consequence injuries (number)
0
0
High consequence injury rate (%)
0
0
Recordable Injuries (number)
184
6
Recordable injury rate (%)
1.3
0.1
Number of hours worked (millions)
29.40
13.00
Note:  All injury rates have been calculated based on 200,000 hours worked. 
 
High consequence injuries - injuries that require more than 6 months recovery time. 
 
Recordable injuries - injuries that require recovery time of greater than 1 day and less than 6 months. 
 
Zero fatalities of employees or contractors were recorded in 2021/22.
Collective Bargaining 
The Group engages with trade unions through joint consultative committees and other 
mechanisms on an ongoing basis. Formal agreements are found in the Consumer Foods industry 
group which covers 582 employees, and accounts for 4 per cent of the Group's total employee 
count. TSF's wage structure is aligned with the regulations of the country's plantation industry. 
Employee Benefit Plans 
In Sri Lanka, employees are eligible for the Employees' Provident Fund (EPF) and the Employees' Trust 
Fund (ETF) contributions, whilst employees who are Maldivian nationals employed in the Maldives 
are eligible for the Maldives Retirement Pension Scheme (MRPS) contributions. The total contribution 
made to the employee trust funds for the reporting year was Rs.255 million (3 per cent of salary 
contributed by the employer), whilst the total contribution made to the employee provident fund 
was Rs.988 million (12- 20 per cent of salary contributed by the employer and 8-15 per cent of salary 
contributed by the employee). In Sri Lanka, employees are also entitled to retirement gratuity. The 
employee benefits liability as at 31 March 2022 was Rs.3.1 billion. 
Staff Volunteerism 
Staff volunteerism plays a vital role as most of 
JKF's projects are carried out with the support 
of volunteers. Staff volunteers range from 
project champions, Sector CSR Coordinators 
and volunteer trainers to those who engage 
in skill-based volunteerism, field work and 
administrative support. The John Keells 
Volunteer Network enables employees to 
go beyond their day-to-day work and make 
a hands-on contribution to the community 
and environment, whilst benefiting from the 
related sense of fulfilment, positive energy and 
opportunities to further their own personal 
growth. Moreover, the Group's volunteer leave 
policy enables staff to be released for CSR 
activities with minimum restraint. 
Despite field-based opportunities being 
inhibited by COVID-19 related lockdowns and 
restrictions as well as unprecedented socio-
economic issues during the year under review, 
over 230 staff volunteers engaged in projects 
undertaken by JKF whilst over 382 volunteer 
instances and over 1,408 hours were recorded. 
Volunteers across the Group continued to 
support JKF to sustain and adapt its activities to 
pandemic and other socio-economic conditions 
including the conduct of virtual and remote 
programmes. The above statistics exclude CSR 
initiatives that were undertaken at a sector/
business level. 
The annual Volunteer Recognition Day 2021 
was conducted virtually, recognising the 
contributions of 194 employees in Group 
service out of the volunteers who engaged in 
JKF's activities in 2020/21 through skill-based 
volunteerism, field and administrative support.

62 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Capital Management Review
Social and Relationship Capital
The Group strongly believes in the importance of maintaining sustainable relationships with customers, suppliers, community, and all other relevant 
stakeholders for long-term sustainable value creation. 
To this end, the Group is engaged in a multitude of initiatives that allow collaboration and reciprocity between the Group and its key stakeholders. 
Focus areas and priority SDGs under Natural Capital
Related SDG focus areas the Group is working towards:
Key highlights for the year:
1.  No Poverty
Fostering sustainable livelihoods through relevant skills, capacity and infrastructure 
enhancement towards poverty alleviation.
 Empowering women's entrepreneurship and livelihoods 
through continued capacity development and market 
access support for 25 women, in times of extreme 
economic hardships arising from pandemic-related and 
other socio-economic conditions in the country. 
 Formalised plans and partnerships for a Street Market 
in Colombo 2 for marketing of food and beverages and 
arts and crafts by low-income communities (primarily 
women) that meet public health and hygiene standards.
 Multi-pronged awareness campaigns focused on 
preventing and addressing gender-based violence 
and child abuse, reaching over 194,528 people.
 Launch of 'John Keells Praja Shakthi' in Ja-Ela and 
Habarana to strengthen livelihoods, support structures 
and create awareness to promote a healthier society. 
 Cleaning of 29 submerged wells in six villages to aid 
suppliers and local communities of TSF affected by 
floods, directly benefiting 200 persons.
 English language and higher education scholarships 
awarded to 712 school children and university 
students. 
 Launched the 'John Keells Praja Shakthi' Digital Learning 
Initiative where tabs and data packages were presented 
to support continued education of 100 deserving 
school children in a pandemic-affected context.
 Kala Pola (Art Fair) events continued to be held 
virtually with events held in the lead up to Christmas 
(2021) and Sinhala and Tamil New Year (2022) 
showcasing 6,415 works of 399 artists to 71,100 
unique visitors within and outside Sri Lanka. 
3.  Good Health and Well-Being
Fostering healthy communities towards enhancing well-being and productivity.
4.  Quality Education
Providing better access to educational opportunities towards enhancing employability 
and entrepreneurship.
5.  Gender Equality
Working towards gender empowerment through skill development and infrastructure 
enhancement, eliminating gender based violence through awareness and capacity 
building.
6.  Clean Water and Sanitation
Supporting communities with essential infrastructure facilities to provide access to 
clean water and sanitation.
8.  Decent Work and Economic Growth
Developing sustainable livelihoods through relevant skills, capacity and infrastructure 
enhancement towards building empowered and sustainable communities.
Entrenching sustainability into supply chains, building mutually beneficial relationships 
and livelihoods development.
11.  Sustainable Cities and Communities
Nurturing the livelihoods and social well-being of local communities, promoting Sri 
Lankan Arts and Culture and preserving the cultural heritage.
16.  Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions
Promoting peace and justice and strengthening institutions including women-based 
structures through community and livelihood programmes; Eliminating violence, 
especially against women and children through capacity building and awareness 
creation at multiple levels including the general public.
Three-year performance indicators:
2021/22
2020/21*
2019/20
Community services and infrastructure projects (Rs.million)
97
51
111
Proportion of purchases from suppliers within Sri Lanka (%)
90
85
79
Community engagement (no. of persons impacted)
1,955,639
756,153
833,234
Sustainability integration awareness (no. of business partners) 
89
72
134
Business partners screened for labour, environment and human rights (no. of business partners)
65
74
89
Proportion of labels carrying ingredients used (%)
76
79
80
Proportion of labels carrying information on disposal (%)
89
92
88
Proportion of labels carrying sourcing of components (%)
1
1
1
Monetary value of significant fines* (Rs.)
 No 
significant 
fines
 No 
significant 
fines
3,932,051
Proportion of businesses analysed for risk of corruption (%)
100
100
100
*Significant fines are defined as fines over Rs.1 million. 

63
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
The Group did not experience any significant fines or any environmental levies during the year 
under review, aside from minor product related fines in the Supermarket business which have 
been duly addressed and rectified.
The Group prioritised local spending on goods, services, and utilities and 90 per cent of economic 
value was distributed in this regard. This is derived based on the number of operations, location 
of revenue generation and location of significant operations. During the year under review, the 
Group spent Rs.6.6 billion primarily on the purchase of fresh produce for the Consumer Foods and 
Retail industry groups and Sri Lankan Resorts and Colombo Hotels segments, thereby supporting 
community suppliers, many of whom are small businesses. 
Product Responsibility 
As part of the Group's commitment to maintaining the highest quality in its product and service 
offering, the Group adheres to all legal requirements, both local and international, and stringent 
quality management processes are in place to ensure the highest quality in processes, responsible 
marketing and communications and stringent health and safety guidelines for both employees 
and customers. The Group's affiliation with the certification of ISO 9001, ISO 14001, ISO 22001 and 
OHSAS 18001/ISO 45001 denotes its commitment in this regard.
Supply Chain Management 
The Group's sustainability focus extends beyond the boundary of its own operations and to its value 
chain. Recognising the importance of collaboration and with a view to create, protect and foster 
long-term environmental, social, and economic value for all stakeholders, the Group has in place a 
Code of Conduct that mandates compliance with laws and regulations as well as adherence to and 
support of international principles on ethical labour practices, human rights, environmental impacts 
and other sustainability issues. The Group also focuses on encouraging female participation and 
diversity in all facets of the Group's supply chain, through awareness creation. 
With respect to this, the Group works closely with its key suppliers to create awareness and 
disseminate knowledge on sustainability topics and best practices, with supplier forums being 
carried out for 89 Group sourced suppliers. Further the Group also carried out assessments on 65 
suppliers currently contracted with Group businesses.
The Group Initiatives division further ensures the Group's commitment towards a sustainable value 
chain by considering social and environmental aspects as a part of assessing tenders and online 
bids for high value items sourced, in addition to considering price and quality. 
Social Responsibility 
The Group firmly believes in being a responsible corporate citizen and strives to promote community 
well-being, social empowerment, and environmental sustainability in order to catalyse empowered 
communities while actively contributing towards the basic human rights and needs of people.
CSR Focus Area - Livelihood Development
 www.johnkeellsfoundation.com 
John Keells Praja Shakthi
'John Keells Praja Shakthi' is a business 
centric, community empowerment initiative, 
which aims to create shared value amongst 
communities in the proximity of identified 
Group businesses. Community interventions 
are assessed and customised to the needs of 
each location and planned and implemented 
in collaboration with the related Group 
businesses and other relevant stakeholders. 
JKF in partnership with the International 
Finance Corporation, 'Cinnamon Life' 
and the Urban Development Authority 
continued efforts to formalise plans for the 
launch of a 'Street Market' in Colombo 2, as 
a community livelihoods support initiative 
with a focus on women. 
A ground assessment was conducted on 
street vendors at Galle Face in collaboration 
with Public Health Inspectors of the 
Colombo Municipal Council (CMC), OCTAVE 
and university students to identify gaps 
and related training and development 
needs. An assessment report including 
recommendations was developed towards 
discussing collaborative action plans with 
the CMC. 
In addition to the above, there were various 
initiatives conducted in liaison with Group 
businesses, which are discussed in the 
Industry Group Review section of this Report.
Youth and Child Development
 y
JKF in partnership with ChildFund Sri Lanka 
(CFSL) and the University of the Visual 
and Performing Arts rolled-out a series of 
aesthetic workshops at the De Mel Park 
Community Centre in Colombo 2 to uplift 
the mental health of youth affected by 
the pandemic. A total of 10 workshops 
were conducted during the reporting 
year benefiting 76 children and youth of 
Colombo 2. CFSL in collaboration with 
JKF and the Charity Commissioner of the 
Colombo Municipal Council also undertook 
the establishment of a Child Resource 
Centre at the Community Centre which is 
aimed at promoting online learning, book 
Execution of the Cooperation Agreement between JKH and IFC for the Street Market Project in Colombo 2.

64 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Capital Management Review
Social and Relationship Capital
CSR Focus Area : Education
 www.johnkeellsfoundation.com 
Digital Learning Initiative
JKF launched the pilot project of 'John 
Keells Praja Shakthi' Digital Learning 
Initiative in Ranala and Colombo 2. The 
project aims to facilitate continued 
education of disadvantaged school 
children preparing for public examinations 
amid the pandemic and other challenges 
in the country. 
A total of 100 Samsung A8 tabs and data 
packages were awarded to selected Ordinary 
Level and Advanced Level students in 'John 
Keells Praja Shakthi' locations in Colombo 2 
and Ranala for the duration of the respective 
course of study. JKF is partnered in this 
initiative by Deutsche Bank as co-funder, 
JKOA and Dialog Axiata PLC as the suppliers 
of devices and data packages respectively at 
concessionary rates whilst CCS and 'Cinnamon 
Grand' were the venue partners for the events 
in Ranala and Colombo respectively. JKF 
also developed and initiated a monitoring 
mechanism for this pilot initiative.
English Language Scholarship Programme 
(ELSP)
ELSP continued for the 18th successive year 
offering scholarships to improve English and IT 
skills of disadvantaged school children under 
its sustained programme 'English for Teens'.
653 students from 20 locations were offered 
scholarships under Tier 1 of the scheme during 
the 2021/22 financial year. Classes were held 
both virtually and physically while abiding by 
pandemic-related health protocols. 
Meanwhile, the first speech competition 
which was organised for the Tier 2 students 
was conducted virtually with the participation 
of 134 students who demonstrated 
commendable skills and confidence. 
Skill into Progress (SKIP)
JKF continued its initiative to support the 
Group's supply chain management called 
'Skill into Progress' (SKIP) aimed at upskilling 
identified supplier groups. The customised 
industry-related English proficiency 
programme conducted in collaboration with 
the Destination Management business was 
completed by 40 Chauffeur guides of Walkers 
Tours and Whittals Boustead, demonstrating 
commendable skills and confidence levels. 
Higher Education Scholarship Programme
During the reporting year, 37 Advanced Level 
students and 22 university students were 
provided scholarships under this programme 
which is aimed at encouraging youth from 
under-served communities to pursue their 
higher education.
CSR Focus Area – Health
 www.johnkeellsfoundation.com 
Project WAVE (Working Against Violence 
through Education)
'Project WAVE' (Working Against Violence 
through Education) – a long-term project 
launched in 2014 with the aim of combating 
gender-based violence and child abuse 
through education, capacity building, social 
sensitisation and advocacy programmes - 
continued to make strides in the year under 
review. Key activities included the following:
 y
The annual public awareness campaign 
against gender-based violence, which 
focused on domestic violence in response 
to a reported surge in complaints 
during the pandemic, was conducted in 
commemoration of the International Day for 
the Elimination of Violence against Women, 
for the sixth successive year. The campaign, 
themed 'Break the Silence', comprised a 
cross-sectoral panel discussion which aired 
during prime time on a premier television 
channel and a two-week long social media 
campaign with an estimated cumulative 
reach of over 1,480,764 persons.
Launch of John Keells Praja Shakthi Digital Learning 
Initiative in Colombo.
reading and reference and skill development 
activities. The CRC will be officially launched 
for community activities on completion of 
fit-out and furnishing work.
 y
A Youth Career Skills and Opportunities 
Programme was organised in Ranala in 
collaboration with CCS, 'Cinnamon Hotels 
& Resorts', Supermarket business and the 
Ranala Divisional Secretariat empowering 
15 local youth with practical learning and 
exposure opportunities at the CCS factory 
in Ranala, Supermarket business and 
Colombo Hotels. 
Gender Empowerment
JKF continued strategic support for women 
entrepreneurs under 'John Keells Praja Shakthi' 
through ongoing needs assessments, capacity 
development and market linkages including 
the following activities, which are perceived 
to be of particular support to the beneficiaries 
under the respective initiatives in the post-
pandemic and socio-economic challenges 
prevalent during the reporting year: 
 y
Market access for members of the 
'Batawela Ranliya Women's Society of 
Ranala' in collaboration with CCS, JMSL 
and the Divisional Secretariat of Kaduwela. 
Following JKF's interventions and market 
facilitation for the Vesak lantern initiative, 
the women were able to earn an additional 
income of ~Rs.16,500 per person. JKF 
and CCS will continue to support these 
women to increase their production 
capacity and market access towards 
becoming independent and self-sustained 
entrepreneurs.
 y
Supporting business registration, capacity 
development and sustainable markets for 
members of 'Hikka Batiks' in Hikkaduwa in 
collaboration with 'Hikka Tranz by Cinnamon' 
and WTL. Following JKF's interventions and 
market facilitation, the women were able to 
earn an additional income of Rs.31,868 per 
person in the reporting year.
 y
Following needs assessments, JKF initiated 
community livelihood initiatives in Ja-ela 
towards enhancing production capacity 
in dairy farming and production of 
spices, in collaboration with KFP PLC and 
Supermarket business.
Launch of the pilot project of the 
'John Keells Praja Shakthi' Digital 
Learning Initiative to facilitate 
the continued education of 
100 disadvantaged students in 
Colombo and Ranala affected by 
the pandemic and other challenges.

65
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
 y
Staff sensitisation continued through 
virtual awareness sessions conducted 
at Group induction programmes, an 
interactive e-learning assessment and a 
refresher programme for 16 pre-trained 
master trainers on Child Protection from 
'Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts' impacting a 
total of 1,095 Group personnel.
 y
External awareness on gender-based 
violence was conducted for a total of 
298 undergraduates of the Universities 
of Ruhuna and Sri Jayewardenepura, in 
partnership with the respective Universities 
and facilitated by Group trainers. 
 y
An islandwide art competition was 
organised to commemorate National 
Children's Day and to raise public 
awareness on Child Protection targeting 
children aged 7-12 in two groups, 
generating 518 entries from all 9 provinces. 
The campaign was also promoted on 
social media platforms reaching over 5,700 
persons. 
Substance Abuse Prevention
Whilst awareness on drug abuse prevention 
among school children is critical, equipping 
teachers and parents with a proper 
understanding of the related risks and dangers 
and the importance of creating an enabling 
environment to support drug prevention is 
equally pivotal. 
In this context, JKF conducted awareness 
creation among the early childhood 
development sector in collaboration with the 
Ja-Ela Divisional Secretariat, Humedica Lanka, 
KFP and Supermarket business, benefiting a 
total of 48 Government officials including DS 
subject staff, Grama Niladhari, representatives 
from the Provincial Education Department and 
community police.
In commemoration of the 'International Day 
Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking', JKF 
launched a week-long social media campaign 
in collaboration with the National Dangerous 
Drugs Control Board (NDDCB) to raise public 
awareness in keeping with the theme 'Share 
Facts on Drugs, Save Lives', reaching over 
5,700 persons. JKF also sponsored prizes for 
the 9 first place winners of an all-island art and 
essay competition organised by the NDDCB in 
collaboration with the Ministry of Education 
under the Shiksha school-based drug 
prevention programme in commemoration of 
the International Day against Drug Abuse and 
Illicit Trafficking. 
A Substance Abuse Prevention Awareness programme carried out for Government officers of the Ja-Ela DS Division.
CSR Focus Area – Arts And Culture
 www.johnkeellsfoundation.com 
Kala Pola 
'Kala Pola' - Sri Lanka's renowned art fair 
showcasing and promoting visual art - 
continued to promote artists through virtual 
events hosted in the lead up to Christmas and 
the Sinhala and Tamil New Year seasons, due 
to pandemic related restrictions. 
Conceptualised by The George Keyt 
Foundation and funded and organised by  
the John Keells Group, both events  
were hosted on JKF's digital platform  
www.srilankanartgallery.com showcasing a 
cumulative total of 6,415 works of art from 
399 artists. The events attracted over 71,100 
unique visitors with over 520 pieces of art sold 
online or commissioned.
Through a strategic partnership with JKF, 
Nations Trust Bank PLC introduced a QR Code-
based payment gateway on the Sri Lankan Art 
Gallery website, whilst offering an exclusive 
preview to its private banking customers 
ahead of the public event. 
As a means of enhancing visitor experience and 
knowledge creation, the month-long Christmas 
edition featured interactive events including a 
collector's guide on starting and adding to a 
collection, a children's arts and crafts workshop, 
and a panel discussion titled 'Sri Lanka to the 
World Stage'. During the Sinhala and Tamil New 
Year Edition, a video was produced to showcase 
the life and works of renowned Sri Lankan artist, 
Pradeep Thalwatta, which was subsequently 
broadcast on JKF's social media platforms.
Digital Art Gallery
JKF continued to maintain and improve Sri 
Lankan Art Gallery (www.srilankanartgallery.
com) which serves as an online platform for 
local artists to showcase their work all year-
round whilst sustaining and enhancing the 
interest of art patrons. The site continued to 
gain traction during the year under review, 
catalysed by the two virtual Kala Pola events 
hosted on the site. As at 31 March 2022, 1,415 
artists were registered with the Sri Lankan Art 
Gallery displaying a total of 11,702 works of art. 
41,610 persons visited the site, which was an 
increase of 69 per cent against 2020/21.
Gratiaen Trust
JKF continued its primary sponsorship of the 
Gratiaen Trust (GT) to recognise, promote 
and nurture Sri Lankan authors writing in 
English, or undertaking translations of Sinhala 
and Tamil literature into English, residing in 
Sri Lanka. Key activities reported for the year 
under review included:
 y
The annual Gratiaen Prize 2020 and 
the H.A.I. Goonetileke Prize for Literary 
Translation were held virtually due to 
COVID-19 restrictions, recording 75 entries 
for the Gratiaen Prize and 10 entries for the 
H.A.I. Goonetileke Prize, with a reach of over 
5,700 people. The online event enabled 
GT to reach a wider audience within and 
outside of Sri Lanka whilst recognising Sri 
Lankan authors residing in the country.
 y
An online creative writing workshop 
was organised in commemoration of 
Children's Day to encourage young readers 
and writers. 73 children participated 
in these sessions which featured three 
Gratiaen Prize winning authors: Lal 
Medawattegedara, Prashani Rambuwella 
and Delon Weerasinghe.

66 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Capital Management Review
Social and Relationship Capital
Museum of Modern and Contemporary Art (MMCA)
JKF continued as major benefactor of the Museum of Modern and Contemporary Art (MMCA) 
which aims to establish a public museum dedicated to the display, research, collection, and 
conservation of Sri Lankan modern and contemporary art. Key activities conducted during the year 
under review:
 y
MMCA launched its second exhibition titled 'Encounters' at the museum's new venue at 
Crescat Boulevard. The artworks that were showcased as part of 'Encounters' included selected 
paintings drawn from the John Keells and George Keyt Foundation Collections, providing the 
public with a rare opportunity to view artwork from two of the country's prominent collections 
of art. The exhibition covered over 13 artworks by 8 artists across different generations 
recording a footfall of 2,843. 
 y
MMCA organised many training and livelihood development programmes and activities to 
build capacity in the museum sector in Sri Lanka. 
 y
MMCA continued its contribution to supporting both the State and private education sectors, 
through lectures and teaching sessions at schools and universities, benefiting a total of 58 
students.
 y
Throughout the year MMCA carried out several social media campaigns and print publications 
with a total reach of 32,185.
Aluwihare Heritage Centre (AHC)
During the year under review, JKF continued its sponsorship for AHC's programme to identify, 
record and archive the works of over 4,000 tracings of batik samples of the late Ena De Silva - a 
renowned Sri Lankan artist credited with re-establishing the country's batik industry – and to 
support related activities of a group of women entrepreneurs in Aluwihare in the Matale District.
This involved developing a repository of the work of the late Ena De Silva which included 
photographing 547 original designs and developing a digital database for tracings. Increasing the 
economic viability of the Centre has been another main objective of AHC, and to this end various 
initiatives to spearhead sales and increase awareness were rolled-out. 
Restoration of the George Keyt Art Collection
During the year under review, JKF initiated the restoration of the George Keyt Collection under 
JKH's patronage as a means of conserving the legacy of Sri Lankan art at JKH in consideration of 
a 7-year (renewable) loan arrangement with The George Keyt Foundation. Restoration work on 
two George Keyt paintings was completed in the reporting period and released for display at the 
MMCA's 'Encounters' exhibition.
CSR Focus Area - Disaster Relief
 www.johnkeellsfoundation.com 
JKF undertook the following disaster relief 
activities during the year under review:
 y
As part of its continued response to 
COVID-19 and enhancing the capacity 
of Government hospitals, JKF donated 
nebulisers and nebuliser kits to the 
Ministry of Health, a wall oxygen system 
to the Nawagamuwa Divisional Hospital 
in collaboration with CCS and a multipara 
monitor to the COVID-19 treatment centre 
at the Mullaitivu Puthukkudiyiruppu 
Divisional Hospital in partnership with 
ChildFund's 'Sri Lanka Gives Back' 
campaign.
 y
Essential consumables were donated to the 
Colombo North Teaching Hospital.
 y
Dry rations were distributed among low-
income earners in Kalutara District in the 
aftermath of the monsoon floods.
 y
JKF also funded the cleaning of 29 wells 
of tea smallholders in Halwitigoda, 
Hingalgoda and Kurupanawa in 
collaboration with Tea Smallholder Factories 
PLC, directly benefiting 200 persons.
 For further details on these projects, refer the 
John Keells Foundation website and social 
media pages
 John Keells Foundation  |  The CSR entity of  
the John Keells Group
Guided tour at MMCA's 'Encounters' exhibition.
JKF continued as major 
benefactor of the Museum of 
Modern and Contemporary 
Art (MMCA) which aims to 
establish a public museum 
dedicated to the display, 
research, collection, and 
conservation of Sri Lankan 
modern and contemporary art.

67
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
The Group's intellectual capital is a primary contributor to its earning potential, productivity, and long-
term sustainability. It is a source of competitive advantage in a fiercely competitive environment, and 
is pivotal to sustainable value creation across the Group. The Group strives to continuously innovate, 
adapt to the dynamic digital era through advanced technology and data analytics, leveraging on the 
skills and knowledge of its employees in a bid to grow its Intellectual Capital base. 
Focus areas and priority SDGs under Natural Capital
Related SDG focus areas the Group is working 
towards:
Key highlights for the year:
7.  Affordable and Clean Energy
Develop new and efficient solutions 
surrounding modern energy services.
 John Keells Research (JKR) entered 
into its first Technology License 
agreement to commercialise JKR's 
proprietary SilmeticTM technology, 
which will be exclusively utilised 
to develop a range of antibacterial 
skin care products.
 OCTAVE, continued its 
transformation journey in 
collaboration with a global 
consulting firm to develop, pilot 
and roll-out a series of use cases, 
where preliminary results are 
promising.
 To develop internal capability, 
OCTAVE continued to expand 
its team of advanced analytics 
professionals.
 John Keells X continued to monitor 
and support its current portfolio 
of start-ups through seed funding, 
mentoring, training, access to 
Group networks and support 
services. 
8.  Decent Work and Economic 
Growth
Continue to collaborate with and support the 
start-up ecosystem of Sri Lanka by creating a 
unique platform for disruptive and innovative 
technology-based solutions.
Facilitate a digital transformation drive, through 
advanced analytics solutions with the aim 
of enabling data driven decision-making in 
businesses.
9  
Industry, Innovation and 
Infrastructure
Continue to grow the Intellectual Capital base 
by innovating, relying on new technology 
and leveraging on the skills and knowledge of 
employees. 
17  Partnerships for the Goals
Explore opportunities both locally and globally 
to commercialise existing technology and 
continue to develop potential solutions to 
dynamic business needs which could lead to 
contemporary business models. 
Intellectual Capital
During the year, JKR relocated its offices 
and laboratories from the Technology 
Incubation Centre to the second hexagon of 
the Nanotechnology and Science Park at the 
Sri Lanka Institute of Nanotechnology. The 
new facility will enhance JKR's capabilities in 
conducting commercially viable projects in 
the core areas of composites, energy storage, 
biomaterials and mechatronics.
JKR was involved in the following projects 
during the year under review: 
 y
JKR entered into its first Technology 
License agreement to commercialise JKR's 
proprietary SilmeticTM technology, which 
will be exclusively utilised to develop a 
range of antibacterial skin care products. 
 y
John Keells research took part in the 
'Karmantha 2022' exhibition which was 
organised by the Industrial Development 
Board in Sri Lanka, where JKR presented 
its technology for developing Aqueous 
Graphene Oxide Solutions.
 y
For the fourth consecutive year, JKR was 
selected to participate in the 'Enabling IP 
Environment Project' conducted by the 
World Intellectual Property Office (WIPO). 
Under the programme, for a period of 
six months, JKR received mentorship 
from WIPO nominated experts on 
commercialisation efforts relating to one of 
its projects. 
JKR filed for a trademark application at 
National Intellectual property office (NIPO) in 
Sri Lanka to register its official logo.
JKR entered into its first Technology License agreement to commercialise JKR's proprietary SilmeticTM technology.
Research and Development
John Keells Research (JKR), the research and development arm of the Group, is constantly engaged 
in discovering new and efficient solutions to dynamic business needs, as well as potential solutions 
which could enhance the Intellectual Capital base of the Group. 
The Group's digital 
transformation drive entail 
investments in infrastructure, 
instilling a culture of change 
acceptance and training 
of staff, among others. The 
Group understands that 
disruptive technology is not 
simply a driver of growth and 
opportunity, but an important 
source of gaining competitive 
advantage.

68 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Capital Management Review
Digitisation, Disruption and Open 
Innovation
In a business climate of fast-growing 
disruptive technology and radically changing 
consumer expectations, the Group has placed 
emphasis on creating a platform to facilitate 
its digital transformation drive, centred 
around 'Disruption and Innovation' to seize 
the potential opportunities offered through 
disruptive technology. The Group's digital 
transformation drive entail investments in 
infrastructure, instilling a culture of change 
acceptance and training of staff, among 
others. The Group understands that disruptive 
technology is not simply a driver of growth 
and opportunity, but an important source of 
gaining competitive advantage. However, the 
Group is mindful of navigating the inherent 
uncertainty and challenges presented by 
disruptive technologies by taking proactive 
measures prior to the adoption of such 
technology. The Group's Advance Analytics 
journey and John Keells X (JKX) is a testament 
to the Group's commitment to its digital 
transformation drive.
John Keells X (JKX), the Group's start-up 
accelerator and open innovation programme, 
provides a channel for the Group's businesses 
to support and collaborate with the start-
up ecosystem of Sri Lanka by creating a 
unique platform for disruptive and innovative 
technology-based businesses and solutions. 
JKX provides support in the form of seed 
funding, mentoring, training, access to Group 
network and support services, and other 
resources. 
Key highlights for JKX during the year under 
review are as follows: 
 y
JKX launched 'JKX 4.0' in December 2021, 
introducing three unique programme 
tracks to cater to the varying needs of the 
startup ecosystem. 
Advanced Analytics Transformation Journey 
 y
The Group's advanced analytics transformation journey continued in collaboration 
with a global consulting firm. The transformation journey aims to address key business 
challenges through the deployment of advanced analytics solutions or use cases, whilst 
driving the adoption of a greater degree of data driven decision-making in day-to-day 
operations of businesses across the Group. OCTAVE - the Data and Advanced Analytics 
Centre of Excellence of the Group, now constitutes a well-established team of data 
scientists, data engineers, visualisation analysts and analytics delivery professionals.
 y
As noted in the 2020/21 JKH Annual Report, work on a series of advanced analytics 
use cases in the Retail, Consumer Foods and Financial Services industry groups yielded 
promising results, with pilot projects delivering evidence of significant value that 
can be unlocked from translating advanced analytics insights into front line business 
interventions. As in the previous financial year, the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on 
business operations necessitated a review of the timing of piloting and rolling out of some 
use cases. However, despite these challenges, several use cases in the Retail industry group 
and the Beverages business of the Consumer Foods industry group were successfully 
piloted, scaled and deployed. 
 y
Initial assessment of the business impact of these use cases or advanced analytics 
solutions, post roll-out and complete business wide adoption, provides strong indication 
that the anticipated benefits that were evident through initial pilot projects can be 
sustained at scale. As such the benefits of the rolled-out use cases, along with the 
anticipated benefits of the piloted use cases continue to be incorporated into future 
budget plans. 
 y
During the period under review, OCTAVE also commenced work on use cases in the 
Frozen Confectionery and Beverage businesses and on use cases in the Leisure industry 
group. Data governance practices which were institutionalised across the Supermarket, 
Insurance, Beverages and Frozen Confectionery businesses have now been extended 
to the Leisure industry group during the year under review, with defined roles being 
staffed by trained resources and milestones set for governing of data domains of the said 
businesses. 
 y
The OCTAVE Advanced Analytics Academy, which offers in-class room training, online 
courses and curated on-the-job learning for each cohort of roles linked to the advanced 
analytics transformation programme, has successfully trained over 180 team members in the 
Group in the functioning of advanced analytics roles at OCTAVE and within the businesses. 
In the year under review, OCTAVE led the independent development of a larger number of 
use cases, with moderate supervision from the global consulting firm. Such independent 
implementation and delivery of use cases is aimed at institutionalising capability and 
sustaining a strong advanced analytics practice in the Group. The capability of the division 
was reinforced further with sustained hiring of advanced analytics professionals. 
 y
JKX Accelerate is the standard accelerator program as done in the past, which provides 
required support for early stage technology startups. 
 y
JKX Innovate is an open innovation programme, which gives startups the opportunity to 
co-create solutions with the Group's businesses, for pre-defined problem statements.
 y
JKX Elevate is an opportunity for technology scale-ups to pitch for growth capital and 
requisite support. 
 y
The JKX Accelerate program accepted 25 startups into its pre-accelerator program, out of 
which up to seven startups will be selected for funding and support. 10 startups have been 
identified for the JKX Innovate programme and they will actively work with the problem 
owners to co-create feasible solutions. 
 y
JKX portfolio start-ups remained resilient during the year under review despite the challenging 
business environment, with some demonstrating encouraging performance, particularly on 
user and revenue growth.
 y
Two JKX portfolio startups were selected for Microsoft's 'Highway to 100 Unicorns' programme.
JKR laboratories at the second hexagon of the Nanotechnology 
and Science Park at the Sri Lanka Institute of Nanotechnology.
Intellectual Capital

69
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Brand Stewardship
The Group is home to many brands which have gained recognition in their respective spheres over 
many years. The range of brands under each of the industry groups are depicted below.
Transportation 
Ports and Shipping 
Transportation
Property 
Property Development
Real Estate
Retail 
Supermarkets
Office Automation 
Consumer Foods 
Beverages
Frozen Confectionery
Convenience Foods
Leisure 
Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts 
Destination Management 
Hotel Management
Financial Services 
Insurance
Banking
Stock Broking
Other, incl. Information 
Technology and 
Plantation Services 
Insurance
Banking
Stock Broking
JKR relocated its offices and laboratories from the Technology Incubation Centre to the second hexagon of 
the Nanotechnology and Science Park at the Sri Lanka Institute of Nanotechnology.

70 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Transportation
Industry Group Review
Industry Group Structure 
Ports and Shipping 
 y
Operation of a container terminal in the Port 
of Colombo as a public-private partnership 
on a build, operate and transfer basis through 
South Asia Gateway Terminals (SAGT).
 y
Development of a container terminal for 
operation in the Port of Colombo as a public-
private partnership on a build, operate and 
transfer basis through the West Container 
Terminal-1 (WCT-1). 
 y
Associate stake in Maersk Lanka, the agents 
in Sri Lanka and the Maldives for the Maersk 
Line. 
 y
Shipping agency and maritime services 
through Inchcape Mackinnon Mackenzie 
Shipping (Private) Limited (IMMS), a joint 
venture with Inchcape Shipping Services. 
Transportation
 y
Marine bunkering and related services under 
Lanka Marine Services (LMS).
 y
Third party logistics (3PL), warehousing, 
trucking through John Keells Logistics (JKLL).
 y
DHL air express in Sri Lanka, a joint venture 
with Deutsche Post.
 y
Representation of multiple on-line and off-
line airlines as general sales agents through 
Mack Air (MAL) in Sri Lanka. 
 y
Travel agency and travel related services 
through Mackinnons Travel (MTL).
 y
Domestic scheduled and charter flight 
operations under the brand, 'Cinnamon Air'.
 y
Freight forwarding and customs brokerage 
through Mack International Freight (MIF).
Inputs (Rs.million)
2021/22
2020/21
%
2019/20
Total assets
38,621 
 23,941 
61 
24,687 
Total equity
18,962 
 18,291 
4 
17,832 
Total debt1
12,680 
 3,663 
246 
4,402 
Capital employed2
31,751 
 22,118 
44 
22,237 
Employees (No.)3
538 
 512 
5 
732 
Outputs (Rs.million)
2021/22
2020/21
%
2019/20
Turnover4
43,877 
 26,584 
65 
 33,439 
EBIT
583 
 3,347 
(83)
 4,178 
PBT
1,015 
 3,343 
(70)
 4,087 
PAT
733 
 3,246 
(77)
 3,962 
EBIT per employee
1 
 7 
(83)
 6 
Carbon footprint (MT)
4,451 
 2,557 
74 
 9,261 
1. Excludes lease liabilities.
2. For equity accounted investees, capital employed is representative of the Group's equity investment in these 
companies. This is inclusive of lease liabilities.
3. As per the sustainability reporting boundary.
4. Revenue is inclusive of the Group's share of equity accounted investees.
Contribution to 
the John Keells Group
18%
Revenue
3%
EBIT
5%
Capital Employed
5%
Carbon Footprint

71
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Macroeconomic Update 
 y
Global trade reached a record level of USD 28.5 trillion in CY2021, 
which is a 25 per cent increase in comparison to CY2020 and a 
13 per cent increase relative to pre-pandemic levels in CY2019 as 
per the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development 
(UNCTAD). 
 y
The positive trend in international trade in CY2021 was primarily 
driven by easing of pandemic restrictions, increases in commodity 
prices and a strong recovery in demand due to various economic 
stimulus packages across the globe.
 y
The volume of merchandise trade, measured by the average of 
exports and imports, rose by 10 per cent in CY2021. Based on the 
value of merchandise trade, this was at USD 22.4 trillion, a 26 per 
cent increase against the previous year. 
 y
The adverse effects of the Russia-Ukraine crisis were evident 
towards the end of the year under review. To this end, the World 
Trade Organisation (WTO) revised its CY2022 trade forecast 
downwards to 3.0 per cent from 4.7 per cent previously. 
Port of Colombo (POC):
 y
The POC handled 7.4 million twenty-foot equivalent units (TEUs) 
in 2021/22, an 8 per cent increase in TEUs handled against the 
previous year [2020/21: negative 6 per cent]. The growth was 
primarily due to a resumption of activity post the pandemic and 
easing of global supply chain constraints.
 y
Domestic TEU volumes increased by 10 per cent during 
2021/22 [2020/21: negative 14 per cent] driven by an uptick 
in export volumes in comparison to the previous year, which 
was largely affected by the pandemic, despite the continuing 
restrictions on select imports. 
 y
Transshipment volumes increased by 8 per cent in 2021/22 
[2020/21: negative 4 per cent]. India continued to be the 
primary transshipment market for Sri Lanka, accounting for ~70 
per cent of volumes.
 y
Domestic: transshipment mix stood at 16:84 for 2021/22 in line 
with 2020/21.
 y
Overall port capacity utilisation was ~86 per cent for 2021/22 
[2020/21: 85 per cent].
 y
Capacity enhancements at the POC: 
 y
The build, operate and transfer (BOT) agreement for the 
development of the West Container Terminal (WCT-1) was 
signed on 30 September 2021 for a lease period of 35 years 
between the Sri Lanka Ports Authority (SLPA) and Colombo 
West International Container Terminal (Private) Limited (CWIT). 
The development and operation of the WCT-1 was identified 
as a Strategic Development Project (SDP) with the requisite 
gazettes being issued on 30 July 2021 and 15 November 2021.
 y
The construction on the East Container Terminal (ECT) 
recommenced in January 2022. The ECT extends across 
75 hectares and will consist of a total quay length of 1,320 
meters, of which 440 meters was constructed in CY2015. 
The construction of the ECT terminal will be conducted in 
three phases and is scheduled to be completed by CY2024. 
Once completed, the SLPA will operate a fully-fledged 
terminal equipped with 14 shore-to-shore (STS) cranes and 40 
automated rail mounted gantry (RMG) cranes.
 y
The SLPA conveyed its intention to develop the Trincomalee port 
as an industrial port and intends on calling for expressions of 
interest (EOIs) from potential local and international investors in 
CY2022. 
 y
In July 2021, the Colombo International Container Terminal 
(CICT) proposed setting up a cargo services centre at the POC 
for an investment of USD 200 million through a public-private 
partnership (PPP), with the goal of increasing market share in Asia 
and strengthening regional presence.
 y
The Jaya Container Terminal (JCT) oil bank operated by the SLPA 
increased its storage capacity during the year by completing the 
construction of a 3,200 MT fuel oil storage tank.
Key Policy and Regulatory Highlights 
 y
The Budget 2022 announced the intent to develop the 
Trincomalee port as an industrial port, whilst the Galle, 
Hambantota and Colombo ports would be developed as a tourist 
port, a service port, and as an entrepot hub, respectively.
 y
Proposals are underway to transform the Colombo International 
Airport in Ratmalana to an international airport to accommodate 
low cost flights. At present, this airport operates regional flights. 
Accordingly, the departure tax at the Colombo International 
Airport in Ratmalana was reduced by 50 per cent to entice low-
cost carriers to Sri Lanka. This concession is effective from 27 March 
2022 for a period of one year.
 y
In April 2022, the SLPA advised shipping lines to remit payments in 
US Dollars with effect from 1 June 2022 onwards.
External Environment and Operational Review 

72 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Industry Group Review
Transportation
 y
The recovery momentum continued 
in the first quarter mainly driven by 
an 84 per cent increase in domestic 
volumes. It is noted that the 
operations in the months of April 
and May in the previous year was 
significantly impacted by the onset 
of the pandemic, as well as reduced 
vessel movement from Indian ports.
 y
During the second quarter, SAGT 
witnessed a decline in volumes, 
in line with the overall market, 
due to disruptions in global vessel 
movement.
 y
Volumes noted an improvement in 
the third quarter, both against the 
previous quarter of the same financial 
year and the corresponding quarter of 
the previous financial year. However, 
it is noted that the third quarter of 
2020/21 included the impact on 
account of a resurgence in travel 
restrictions, and a brief industrial 
disruption which affected operations 
for a few days, which adversely 
impacted volumes.
 y
Volumes declined marginally by 2 
per cent in the fourth quarter of the 
year, primarily on account of domestic 
volumes decreasing by 14 per cent 
on account of the challenging 
macroeconomic environment, whilst 
transshipment volumes were flat in 
comparison to the fourth quarter of 
2020/21. 
SAGT volumes (TEU ’000s)
2020/21
Q1
16:84
10:90
13:87
11:89
13:87
14:86
14:86
16:84
Q2
Q3
Q4
100
200
300
400
500
600
2021/22
Domestic:Transshipment volumes
2021/22:
2020/21:
Insights
Ports and Shipping 
South Asia Gateway Terminal 
During the year under review, the Group's Ports and Shipping business, SAGT, recorded a marginal 1 
per cent growth handling 1.8 million TEUs [2021/22: 1.8 million TEUs] in comparison to the decline of 
12 per cent in volumes recorded in 2020/21. Domestic volumes increased by 8 per cent in comparison 
with the previous year whilst transshipment volumes at SAGT were flat against 2020/21.
Macroeconomic challenges in terms of sourcing fuel, gas, electricity, and outsourced services 
such as lashing, inter and intra trucking costs materialised towards the latter end of the year under 
review exerting pressure on business performance. 
 Refer Outlook section for the envisaged impact of the ongoing macroeconomic crisis - page 136
During the year under review, SAGT successfully completed the hybrid conversion project where 22 
rubber tyred gantry (RTGs) cranes were installed with hybrid engines. This contributed to a 50 per cent 
reduction in its fuel consumption and enabled the business to meet its commitment of reducing fuel 
emissions as a part of its ongoing sustainability programme. SAGT also augmented its digitisation 
strategies by being the first port in the POC to fully automate the import clearance process.
Colombo West International Container Terminal
Colombo West International Container Terminal (Private) Limited (CWIT), the project company for 
the development of the WCT-1 was incorporated in April 2021. Subsequently, the BOT agreement 
was signed on 30 September 2021 between the SLPA and CWIT for the development of the WCT-1, 
for a lease period of 35 years. 
The work progressed well towards meeting the conditions precedent stipulated in the BOT, including 
work towards project design and costs and other structuring arrangements, and the WCT-1 site was 
handed over in February 2022 for the commencement of construction. The project was granted 
SDP status by gazettes issued in June and November 2021. The debt funding for the project was 
also secured and financing documents were executed. In May 2022, CWIT mobilised a temporary 
site office to initiate development activities and is currently evaluating the civil and equipment bids 
received from international contractors and suppliers.
The WCT-1 is a deep-water terminal with a quay length of 1,400 meters, an alongside depth of 
20 meters and has an annual handling capacity of ~3.2 million TEUs. Phase 1 of the terminal, 
comprising of a quay length of 600 meters, is slated to be operational within a period of ~24 
months. The remainder of the terminal is expected to be completed within a further period of ~24 
months. The total project cost is envisaged to be ~USD 650 million with a debt to equity mix of 
~70:30. The JKH equity commitment is estimated at USD 70 million of which ~USD 10 million has 
already been infused into CWIT, with the remainder to be infused on a staggered basis over the 
project construction period.
The WCT-1 site was handed over in February 2022 for the commencement of construction.

73
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Inchcape Mackinnon Mackenzie Shipping
As noted in the JKH Annual Report 2020/21, in January 2021, Mackinnon Mackenzie and Company 
(Shipping) Limited (MMS) entered into a joint venture agreement with Inchcape Shipping Services 
Group Holdings Limited (Inchcape), a leading maritime services provider and one of the largest 
independent shipping agency networks in the world. 
The newly formed entity, Inchcape Mackinnon Mackenzie Shipping (Private) Limited (IMMS) 
commenced operations on 1 July 2021 and is currently active at all ports and territorial waters 
of Sri Lanka with offices based in Colombo and Hambantota. IMMS provides a range of maritime 
services in Sri Lanka which includes port agency, husbandry, crew logistics services and offshore 
services, amongst others. The business recorded an encouraging performance driven by the easing 
of pandemic related restrictions. It should be noted that industry performance was below pre-
pandemic levels on account of restrictions on ship crew movements during certain periods of the 
year under review. However, with the relaxation of restrictions and extension of certain flexibilities 
to agents by the Government, such as the ability to carry out independent operations, the business 
witnessed an increase in the number of inquiries received. Prudent cost management also aided 
the business in maintaining margins during the year under review.
Maersk Lanka
Maersk continued to secure its position as one of the largest shipping lines in the POC. The 
business performed exceptionally well during the year on account of an increasing customer 
count, favourable freight rates and an expansion of service offerings to clients. 
Maersk continued to secure its position as one of the largest shipping lines in the POC.
Bunkering 
The Bunkering business of the Group, Lanka Marine Services (LMS), recorded a 3 per cent growth in 
volumes, despite the multitude of challenges faced during the year. Whilst the demand for bunker 
fuel remained steady, a notable increase in fuel oil prices, contributed positively to the margins of 
the business. 
In January 2022, the oil tanker 'Sunny Bay' carrying 13,000 MT of marine gas oil (MGO) was docked 
at the Port of Hambantota (POH) and became the first vessel to discharge MGO for storage at the 
port's tank farm. POH's global partner, Sinopec imported its first MGO shipment in January 2022 
from which LMS purchased MGO, in addition to the ongoing purchase of fuel oil.
With the easing of pandemic related challenges, the bunker industry experienced a notable 
growth in volumes and consistent import of cargo by market participants. However, industry 
bunker volumes are yet to reach to pre-pandemic levels. LMS continued to maintain its market 
leadership position during 2021/22, with its market share in line with pre-pandemic levels. This 
compares against the previous year where certain players temporarily withdrew from the market 
with the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, whilst LMS continued to operate and thereby was able 
to command a notable share of the market.
The bunker industry faced numerous 
challenges in procuring cargo from suppliers 
and opening letters of credit (LCs) given the 
challenging macroeconomic environment, 
especially towards the latter end of the year 
under review, to which LMS was no exception. 
Given its relationship with suppliers and 
financial institutions, LMS has been able to 
successfully manage this challenge. 
During the year under review, disruptions 
to global trade and lockdowns globally on 
account of the spread of COVID-19 created 
severe fluctuations in international oil prices. 
The business managed to mitigate this impact 
by implementing well-planned commercial 
and sales strategies. LMS further strengthened 
its internal processes by digitising its invoice 
approval system and demand planning system 
which led to efficiency gains in operations. 
 Refer Outlook section for details of 
the envisaged impact of the ongoing 
macroeconomic crisis - page 136
Logistics 
The logistics arm of the Group, John Keells 
Logistics (JKLL) expanded its service offerings 
and customer base across new sectors. During 
the year under review, JKLL's third party 
logistics (3PL) business, was able to enhance 
the storage capacity of its warehouses by 
38 per cent, aided by internal optimisation 
strategies whilst maintaining the footprint in 
line with 2020/21. 
During the year under review, JKLL entered 
into an agreement with Global Transport 
Logistics to construct a custom-built state-of-
the-art warehouse facility in Raddolugama, 
spanning across 100,000 sq.ft. and with a 
storage capacity of 18,000 cubic meters. The 
project is due to be completed by September 
2022. 
JKLL continued to digitise and optimise its 
logistic value chain by leveraging on its newly 
implemented tier 1 warehouse management 
system (WMS), which was fully implemented 
for its key clients during the year. The WMS 
provides seamless integration and real time 
information across the value chain for JKLL 
and its customers to facilitate swift decision-
making leading to cost optimisation and 
increased productivity. 

74 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
The management of the warehouse 
in Kerawalapitiya, held under LogiPark 
International, was transferred to the Group's 
Supermarket business during the year under 
review. The 3PL business recorded a 212 
per cent increase in operational throughput 
(excluding Group business) during the year 
and further expanded its transportation fleet 
operations by 33 per cent (excluding Group 
business). Despite the decline in volumes due 
to the restriction of imports on account of the 
ongoing macroeconomic environment, JKLL 
was successful in penetrating the apparel and 
tyre industry verticals whilst further expanding 
into the paints industry. JKLL continued to 
onboard new clients which resulted in the 
overall warehouse utilisation at 89 per cent. 
The two new product verticals launched in 
2020/21, container freight station (CFS) in 
collaboration with Maersk for apparel export 
consolidation and last mile delivery services 
with North Seven Trading (Private) Limited 
performed well during the year under review. 
Awards 
 y
Silver award in the 'Warehousing 
and Distribution - Large' category at 
the National Logistics Awards 2021 
organised by the Sri Lanka Freight 
Forwarders Association (SLFFA).
 y
Merit award in the 'Logistics and 
Transportation' category at the National 
Business Excellence Awards 2021.
Industry Group Review
Transportation
DHL Keells 
DHL Keells (Private) Limited continued to maintain its market leadership position in 2021/22 despite 
the challenges encountered. The increase in freight rates as a part of its incremental yield and margin 
management initiatives was a significant driver of business during the year. Both the corporate segment 
and the retail segment witnessed growth during the year on account of an increase in demand for 
e-commerce. 
Due to the ongoing macroeconomic crisis, small medium enterprise (SME) customers requested 
for extended credit terms in order to manage their respective financial obligations, which exerted 
pressure on the working capital cycle of the business. Despite these circumstances, collection 
performance at DHL was well controlled and was maintained within targeted indicators. 
The business introduced a call centre at airport gateway premises to facilitate customer inquiries and 
complaints. Additionally, the business also revamped its customs clearance processes, incorporating 
effective control measures in order to smooth the clearance process which included installation of 
a new x-ray machine capable of detecting narcotics and explosives in inbound consignments. It is 
anticipated that this equipment will facilitate faster clearances and shuttle departures from the airport 
gateway.
Awards 
DHL received the following awards from 'Great Place to Work'
 y
Ranked within the 'Top 40 Best Companies to Work in Sri Lanka – 2021'. 
 y
Gold award – 'Multinational Companies' category. 
 y
Silver award – 'Medium Sized Organisations' category.
 y
Bronze award – 'Customer Service Department of the Year' at Stevie Awards 2021.
JKLL expanded its service offerings and customer base 
across new sectors during the year under review.
The 3PL business recorded a 212 per cent increase in operational 
throughput (excluding Group business) during the year and 
further expanded its transportation fleet operations by 33 per 
cent (excluding Group business).
JKLL continued to onboard new clients which resulted in the 
overall warehouse utilisation at 89 per cent.
DHL was ranked within the 'Top 40 Best Companies to Work in Sri Lanka – 2021' by 'Great Place to Work'.

75
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Airlines and Other 
Businesses within the Airline segment 
continued to be significantly impacted by 
the lacklustre performance in tourist arrivals. 
Whilst this was more pronounced in the first 
half of 2021/22, the segment witnessed an 
encouraging recovery towards the latter end 
of the year under review, in tandem with the 
revival of the tourism industry.
The domestic airline 'Cinnamon Air' declared 
open a new aircraft maintenance hangar 
at the Bandaranaike International Airport 
(BIA) in December 2021. The new hangar is 
located alongside the exclusive domestic 
passenger terminal at the BIA, which makes 
'Cinnamon Air' the only domestic airline to 
have a dedicated terminal and an aircraft 
maintenance hangar within the premises 
of BIA which will lead to cost efficiencies 
and improved productivity of maintenance, 
engineering, and flight operations divisions. 
Although operations were resumed in April 
2021 after grounding flights for most parts 
of 2020/21, 'Cinnamon Air' had to ground 
its flights once again on the back of inter-
provincial travel restrictions and rapid increase 
of COVID-19 cases in the first half of the year. 
Post this, 'Cinnamon Air' resumed operations 
once again from August 2021 onwards 
limiting its service offerings to charter flights 
whilst temporarily suspending schedule flight 
services. On the back of the encouraging 
recovery in tourism witnessed from December 
2021 onwards, the airline observed a positive 
build up in demand for charter flights and 
operated an average of ~80 charter flights per 
month from mid-December till end-March 
2022. The scheduled flight operations which 
were suspended in March 2020 on account of 
the pandemic recommenced operations from 
May 2022 onwards.
'Cinnamon Air' declared open a new aircraft 
maintenance hangar at the BIA in December 2021. 
'Cinnamon Air' fleet of Cessna Caravans.
The rebound in international flight frequencies resulted in cargo operations returning to  
pre-pandemic levels. Against this backdrop, operations at MAL improved significantly with increased 
flight frequencies, enhanced relationships with airlines and new product offerings. However, 
foreign currency remittances due to principals were affected by constraints in the foreign exchange 
market and the notable depreciation of the local currency which adversely affected all segments of 
traffic originating from Sri Lanka, particularly in the fourth quarter. MAL continued its promotional 
campaigns by using its extensive database to communicate key pricing information to its customers. 
 Refer Outlook section for the envisaged impact of the Russia-Ukraine crisis on the Airline business - page 136
 
MTL experienced a recovery in operations in tandem with the relaxation of restrictions, such as 
in the issuance of visas, border closures and mandatory quarantine requirements. Operations 
continued from a 'work from home' basis further supporting cost savings. Devaluation of the local 
currency and restrictions in foreign currency transfers to airline principals have led to an increase in 
airline ticket prices which may adversely impact ticket sales originating from Sri Lanka. 
MIF onboarded new customers under both the air and sea freight verticals during the year under 
review, despite the challenges on account of import restrictions and foreign exchange constraints.
Awards 
 y
Bronze award under the 'Customs House Broker' category at the National Logistics Awards 
2021 organised by the Sri Lanka Freight Forwarders Association (SLFFA).

76 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Industry Group Review
Transportation
Income Statement Indicators
Rs.million
2021/22
2020/21
%
Revenue*
Transportation 
34,788 
19,476 
79
Ports and Shipping
9,089 
7,108 
28
Total
43,877 
26,584 
65
*Including share of revenue of equity accounted investees.
Transportation 
 y
The Group's Bunkering business recorded an 86 per cent increase 
in revenue due to increases in base oil prices for bunker fuel. LMS 
onboarded new customers by directly liaising with vessel owners and 
charterers which amounted to ~38 per cent of revenue. 
 y
The Bunkering business accounts for ~95 per cent of the revenue 
composition within the industry group, excluding equity accounted 
investees.
 y
The Logistics business recorded a 100 per cent increase in revenue 
during the year under review, driven by new client acquisitions and 
increased throughput across facilities. 
 y
The Airline businesses also witnessed a rebound in operations with 
the resumption of tourism which led to an increase in revenue during 
the year under review. 
Ports and Shipping 
 y
The increase in revenue in the Ports and Shipping sector is mainly 
attributable to SAGT which recorded an encouraging growth on 
account of ancillary operations at the POC, despite a marginal 
volume growth of 1 per cent. 
 y
The devaluation of the local currency coupled with increased service 
offerings at Maersk resulted in a 100 per cent revenue growth during 
the year under review. 
 y
With the commencement of operations on 1 July 2021, IMMS also 
contributed to the topline of the Ports and Shipping sector.
Rs.million
2021/22
2020/21
%
EBITDA*
Transportation 
1,854 
1,202 
54
Ports and Shipping
(1,011)
2,408 
(142)
Total
 843 
3,610 
(77)
PBT**
Transportation 
2,025 
935 
117
Ports and Shipping
(1,010)
2,408 
(142)
Total 
1,015 
3,343 
(70)
* Note that EBITDA includes interest income but excludes all impacts from foreign 
currency exchange gains and losses, to demonstrate the underlying cash operational 
performance of businesses.
**Share of results of equity accounted investees are shown net of all taxes.
Transportation 
 y
The Group's bunkering business, LMS, recorded an 82 per cent 
increase in EBITDA during the year under review due to higher 
margins.
 y
A general provision for taxes was made at LMS, as a measure of 
prudence, in line with the higher operational activity and the current 
tax positions which are being appealed.
 y
Recognition of an impairment loss at Saffron Aviation (Private) 
Limited (SAL), the operating company of 'Cinnamon Air', given the 
multiple set-backs faced in the recent years from the Easter Sunday 
attacks in CY2019, and the subsequent pandemic driven impacts on 
tourism, and operating conditions.
 y
With the exception of 'Cinnamon Air', the other Airline businesses 
recorded a notable increase in profitability, in line with revenue 
growth. 
 y
Despite the substantial increase in revenue, JKLL recorded a 20 per 
cent decline in EBITDA due to an increase in staff related costs on 
account of COVID-19 and volatile economic conditions. 
 y
Similarly, whilst DHL Keells also recorded an encouraging growth 
in revenue, the EBITDA of the business was impacted due to the 
exchange loss arising on the accumulated network fee payable.
 y
Finance costs at LMS and JKLL increased on account of working 
capital facilities obtained during the year under review. 
Ports and Shipping 
 y
The decline of profits in the Ports and Shipping sector is due to a 
goodwill impairment at SAGT arising from the difference of the original 
investment and carrying value of the investment which was recorded in 
2021/22 in lieu of the upcoming transfer of SAGT based on the 30-year 
build, operate and transfer (BOT) agreement with the Government. 
 y
Maersk recorded a 49 per cent growth in EBITDA during the year 
under review [2020/21:16 per cent].
The recurring EBITDA of the industry group, post adjusting for the 
aforementioned impairment loss at SAL, the goodwill impairment at 
SAGT and the turnover tax provision at LMS stood at Rs.6.14 billion, a 70 
per cent increase against the previous year [2020/21: Rs.3.61 billion].
Balance Sheet Indicators
Rs.million
2021/22
2020/21
%
Debt*
Transportation 
12,680 
3,663 
246
Ports and Shipping
-
-
-
Total
12,680 
3,663 
246
*Excludes lease liabilities.
 y
The increase in debt in the industry group is mainly attributable to 
an increase in short-term borrowings at LMS in order to manage 
working capital requirements. 
 y
Lease liabilities as at 31 March 2022 stood at Rs.109 million [2020/21: 
Rs.164 million]. Total debt including leases stood at Rs.12.79 billion as 
at 31 March 2022.
Financial and Manufactured Capital
Capital Management Review
The section that ensues discusses the performance of the industry group during the year under review, under the key forms of Capital applicable for 
the industry group.

77
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
The industry group continued to adopt processes on energy 
management, maintenance of emissions and effluent discharge 
within acceptable limits whilst operating within international industry 
standards and other best practices. 
Natural Capital
Energy and emissions management
Relevance: Financial, regulatory and brand reputation 
implications
Approach
 y
Continuous improvements in energy efficiency.
 y
Alignment with international standards and best 
practice.
 y
Ongoing monitoring of performance against energy 
reduction goals.
Initiatives
 y
Continuous monitoring of emissions and fuel 
consumption against established international 
benchmarks.
 y
Ongoing use of the Transport Management System 
at JKLL for route optimisation by efficiently managing 
fuel usage.
Waste management 
Relevance: Financial, regulatory and brand reputation 
implications
Approach
 y
Segregation, measurement, and management of waste.
 y
Compliance with all regulatory requirements in 
relation to responsible waste disposal.
Initiatives
 y
JKLL conducted two rounds of beach clean-up 
programmes.
 y
Plastic waste collection bins were placed by JKLL at 
the Mount Lavinia beach to manage plastic waste.
 y
Waste generated through bunkering operations 
was continuously monitored through a Marine 
Environmental Pollution Authority (MEPA) certified 
third party to ensure responsible disposal.
 y
No significant spillages were reported during the year 
under review.
Reduction in energy consumption at JKLL Seeduwa and 
Enderamulla warehouses:
Goal
10% 
 by 2024/25 
Note: In arriving at the status for the year for the indicators, the status disclosed 
above is reported independently by each year against the goal of the baseline year.
Status
3% 
 during 2021/22
Energy
Indicators
Carbon Footprint (MT)
2020/21
74%
2021/22
4,451
2,557
Waste Disposed (kg ‘000)
2020/21
0.4%
2021/22
232
231
Carbon footprint scope 1 and 2 per operational intensity factor
2021/22
2020/21
LMS CO2 (kg per MT of bunkers sold)
 8.1
 7.0 
JKLL CO2 (kg per sq.ft. of warehouse 
managed)
 2.0
 2.2 
Mack Air CO2 (kg per sq.ft. of office space)
 4.1
 7.9 
MTL CO2 (kg per sq.ft. of office space)
0.0 
 0.6 
Cinnamon Air CO2 (kg per flight hour)
3,510.4
 2,984.3 
Waste generated per operational intensity factor
2021/22
2020/21
LMS waste generated (kg per MT of 
bunkers sold)
0.6
0.5
JKLL waste generated (kg per sq.ft. of 
warehouse managed)
0.2
0.3
The Transportation industry group strives to maintain a healthy and 
safe working environment for its employees across all operations and 
locations, whilst providing continuous training and awareness creation, 
with a heightened focus on occupational health and safety. Managing 
the impacts of COVID-19 and thereby ensuring minimal interruptions to 
operations is also a key focus area. 
Processes introduced to safeguard employees amidst the COVID-19 
pandemic were further enhanced during the year under review.
Human Capital 
Continuous monitoring of emissions and fuel 
consumption against established international 
benchmarks and ongoing use of the Transport 
Management System at JKLL for route 
optimisation by efficiently managing fuel usage.

78 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Industry Group Review
Transportation
Talent management 
Relevance: The need to retain and continuously upgrade 
skills of existing staff, whilst developing a resource base 
of professionals for the country's transportation industry
Approach
 y
Attracting and retaining high-potential individuals. 
 y
Developing a resource base of qualified professionals 
by partnering with universities.
 y
Localising airline pilot positions.
Initiatives
 y
Continuous training and skills development of 
employees through which ~13 hours of training were 
provided per employee.
 y
The 15-year strategic collaboration with the 
Department of Transport and Logistics Management 
and the Engineering Faculty of the University of 
Moratuwa, aimed at expanding the country's 
resource base of professionals in the industry, 
was temporarily suspended due to the closure of 
universities and restrictions following the pandemic. 
The programme is set to recommence in 2022/23.
 y
During the reporting period, 'Cinnamon Air' was able to 
remove dependency on expatriate float plane captains 
and the fleet is now fully operated by local pilots.
Health and safety
Relevance: Providing a safe working environment in 
order to improve employee productivity
Approach
 y
Maintaining health and safety procedures and practices. 
 y
Training and creating awareness.
Initiatives
 y
LMS and JKLL renewed the ISO 45001: 2018 
certification for bunkering and warehouse operations.
 y
Fire drills and International Convention for the 
Prevention of Pollution from Ships (MARPOL) 
compliant oil spill drills were carried out for 
employees at LMS.
 y
Bi-annual fire and first aid trainings were conducted 
in all seven JKLL distribution centres by experienced 
trainers.
 y
Regular COVID-19 safety awareness sessions and 
related monthly audits were carried out in warehouses. 
 y
No injuries were recorded during the year under review.
66
Ports and Shipping 
472
Transportation
Number of 
Employees 
Indicators
Training Per Employee (Hours)
2020/21
63%
2021/22
13
8
Training (Hours)
2020/21
70%
2021/22
4,126
7,030
The industry group engages with multiple businesses across the country 
and actioned several initiatives by maintaining mutually beneficial 
relationships with stakeholders and conducting operations in a socially 
responsible manner.
Significant Suppliers 
 y
Outsourced vehicle fleets 
 y
Warehouse operations 
 y
Maintenance, support services, and outsourced employees 
 y
Suppliers of capital equipment 
Businesses in the industry group assessed significant suppliers, including 
outsourced services, as necessary, in order to maintain mutually 
beneficial relationships with stakeholders and to mitigate any negative 
sustainability impacts. 
Social and Relationship Capital 
Community engagement 
Relevance: Contributes towards building trust and 
promoting brand image
Approach
 y
Development of industry specific skills and 
employability of youth by providing training and 
employment opportunities. 
Initiatives
 y
In collaboration with the University of Kelaniya, 
JKLL conducted a career guidance workshop for 
350 undergraduates. The long-term objective of the 
workshop is to develop a resource pool of future 
professionals in the industry. 
 y
English and Information Technology (IT) scholarships 
were awarded to 22 high performing students 
under the 'English for Teens' initiative of John 
Keells Foundation's English Language Scholarship 
Programme. 

79
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Consumer Foods
Industry Group Structure 
Beverages 
 y
Carbonated soft drinks (CSD) under the 
'Elephant House' brand.
 y
Non-CSD range:
 y
'Twistee', a fruit-based tea drink.
 y
'Fit-O', a fruit flavoured drink.
 y
Fresh milk and flavoured milk branded 
under 'Elephant House'.
 y
Water branded under 'Elephant House'.
 y
'Wild Elephant', an energy drink.
Frozen Confectionery
 y
Wide selection of Frozen Confectionery 
products, including the premium ice cream 
range 'Imorich', 'Feelgood' guilt-free frozen 
yoghurt range and other impulse products 
such as stick, cone, and cup varieties.
Convenience Foods
 y
Processed meat products under the 
'Keells-Krest' and 'Elephant House' brands.
 y
A range of crumbed and formed meat 
products under the 'Keells-Krest' brand.
 y
'Keells-Krest Soya Meat', a plant-based 
product. 
CSD    |    Non-CSD
Bulk    |    Impulse
Note: The above products comprise a portfolio of leading consumer 
brands – all household names - supported by an established island-
wide distribution channel and dedicated sales team.
Inputs (Rs.million)
2021/22
2020/21
%
2019/20
Total assets
19,508 
15,914 
23 
15,489 
Total equity
9,531 
8,755 
9 
8,073 
Total debt1
3,114 
2,546 
22 
3,261 
Capital employed2
12,792 
11,398 
12 
11,426 
Employees (No.)3
1,363 
1,402 
(3)
1,480 
Outputs (Rs.million)
2021/22
2020/21
%
2019/20
Turnover
21,008 
16,510 
27 
17,004 
EBIT
2,516 
2,459 
2 
2,556 
PBT
2,347 
2,297 
2 
2,330 
PAT
1,925 
2,156 
(11)
1,644 
EBIT per employee
2 
2 
5 
2 
Carbon footprint (MT)
19,581 
17,619 
11 
18,357 
1. Excludes lease liabilities.
2. Includes lease liabilities.
3. As per the sustainability reporting boundary.
Contribution to 
the John Keells Group
9%
Revenue
12%
EBIT
2%
Capital Employed
20%
Carbon Footprint

80 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Industry Group Review
Consumer Foods
Macroeconomic Update 
 y
Gross domestic product (GDP) in Sri Lanka recorded a 3.7 per cent growth in CY2021, in 
comparison to a 3.6 per cent contraction recorded in CY2020 primarily due to the impact 
of COVID-19 in CY2020. 
 y
Headline inflation, as measured by the year-on-year change in the National Consumer 
Price Index (NCPI), accelerated to 14.0 per cent at the end of CY2021 in comparison to 
the 4.6 per cent recorded in CY2020, on the back of global and domestic supply side 
disruptions, global commodity price pressures and upward revisions to administered 
prices. Average annual inflation was recorded at 7.0 per cent, driven by notable increases 
in the food category. 
 y
Core inflation stood at 10.8 per cent in December 2021 in comparison to 4.7 per cent in 
December 2020.
 y
As at March 2022, the headline inflation and core inflation stood at 21.5 per cent and 
17.3 per cent, respectively, mainly due to the higher price levels that prevailed in both 
the food and non-food categories. Accordingly, the year-on-year inflation of the food 
category increased to 29.5 per cent in March 2022 from 21.5 per cent in December 2021 
and the year-on-year inflation of the non-food category increased to 14.5 per cent in 
March 2022 from 7.6 per cent in December 2021.
 y
Private consumption expenditure (PCE) at current prices recorded a notable growth of 
10.8 per cent in CY2021, compared to the lacklustre growth of 1.0 per cent in CY2020, 
primarily driven by an increase in food expenditure. 
 y
The LMD-Nielsen Business Confidence Index (BCI) was recorded at 132 points in March 
2022, a 11-month high, with the index edging towards where it stood before the 
COVID-19 outbreak in March 2021. However, in April 2022, BCI plummeted to 116 points, 
to its lowest during the year in lieu of the ongoing macroeconomic challenges. 
 y
Exchange rate pressures on the back of a lack of liquidity in the domestic foreign 
exchange market amplified in CY2021, which led to a measured adjustment in the 
exchange rate in early March 2022.
 Refer External Environment and Outlook sections for the envisaged impact of the ongoing 
macroeconomic crisis - page 37 and 136
Key Policy and Regulatory Highlights
 y
Various restrictions were placed on the sale and importation of sugar, including the 
requirement to produce an import control license (ICL) for the importation of sugar 
during select periods and a maximum retail price (MRP) of Rs.122 per kg on unpacked 
white sugar with effect from 2 September 2021 till 3 November 2021.
 y
The special commodity levy on sugar at 25 cents per kg originally effected in October 
2020 was further extended for a period of 6 months commencing from 12 January 2022 
onwards.
 y
The MRP on bottled water was removed with effect from January 2022.
 y
In August 2021, dairy products containing added sugar and other sweetening materials 
were made exempt from the ports and airport levy (PAL).
 y
The price of imported milk powder increased in October 2021 due to price increases 
in the global market front and freight charges. Subsequently, imported milk powder 
underwent another upward price revision towards December 2021 and prices are 
continuously on the rise. The prevailing macroeconomic crisis had led to shortages in 
imported milk powder, with importers demanding a price hike to reflect global prices. 
 y
In October 2021, MRP on milk products including skimmed milk powder was removed.
External Environment and Operational Review 
As morefully detailed in the ensuing section, 
the Beverages, Frozen Confectionery and 
Convenience Foods businesses recorded an 
encouraging performance aided by a strong 
recovery in volumes driven by consumer 
discretionary spending and favourable 
weather conditions. Albeit off a lower base, 
given the impact of the pandemic in the 
previous year, performance towards the latter 
end of the year under review surpassed that of 
pre-pandemic levels. However, the latter end 
of 2021/22 was characterised by significant 
macroeconomic challenges which exerted 
pressure on margins, in lieu of:
 y
A significant increase in global commodity 
prices coupled with the steep depreciation 
of the domestic currency led to a sharp 
increase in raw material prices. 
 y
Import restrictions coupled with foreign 
exchange liquidity constraints amplified 
challenges in sourcing raw materials 
essential for production.
 y
Intermittent disruptions to power supply 
and fuel shortages have raised operational 
challenges, although the businesses have 
been able to manage the impact thus far 
successfully. 
 y
A decrease in demand for larger pack sizes 
as a result of the steep rise in cost of living. 
The businesses witnessed a shift in demand 
towards smaller economical packs. 
Given the intermittent outbreaks of COVID-19 
cases within the country, factories operated 
under a 'bio-bubble' scheme, particularly 
in the first half of the year under review, 
encompassing various health and safety 
protocols which were gradually relaxed in 
tandem with the relaxation of regulations and 
the rapid vaccination drive amongst factory 
employees. This ensured an uninterrupted 
supply chain and business continuity despite 
the rapid outbreak of COVID-19 cases.  
Beverages 
The Beverages business recorded a strong 
rebound in volumes despite the challenging 
operating landscape on the back of the 
pandemic and rapid escalations in the prices 
of raw materials. The business recorded a 22 
per cent increase in volumes during the year 
under review [2020/21: negative 16 per cent]. 
The volume growth was mainly attributable to 
the performance of the CSD segment which 
recorded an 18 per cent growth in comparison 
to the negative growth of 14 per cent 
recorded in 2020/21 and the water segment 
which recorded a growth of 80 per cent in 
2021/22 [2020/21: negative 31 per cent]. 

81
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
 y
The performance of CSD volumes 
in the first quarter of the current 
year and the comparative year is 
somewhat distorted as both periods 
were affected by lockdowns imposed 
by the Government on account of 
the pandemic. However, with the 
easing of travel restrictions, CSD 
volumes recorded a strong recovery 
momentum with an 18 per cent 
growth during the first quarter of 
2021/22 [2020/21: negative 44 per 
cent]. 
 y
The imposition of a quarantine curfew 
in mid-August 2021 significantly 
impacted the rebound in volumes 
witnessed in the first quarter. 
Accordingly, CSD volumes noted a 14 
per cent decrease in the second quarter 
in comparison to the corresponding 
quarter of the previous year.
 y
In the third quarter, the easing of 
restrictions, rapid vaccination roll-outs 
and a notable recovery in consumer 
sentiment resulted in CSD volumes 
recording a 37 per cent growth in 
comparison to the corresponding 
quarter of 2020/21, surpassing pre-
pandemic volumes. 
 y
The positive momentum continued 
towards the fourth quarter of 2021/22 
driven by improved consumer 
demand and favourable weather 
conditions which resulted in CSD 
volumes increasing by 34 per cent 
and 36 per cent in comparison to 
the fourth quarters of 2020/21 and 
2019/20 respectively. 
 y
Since 2015/16, the sales volume for 
the fourth quarter of 2021/22 was the 
highest volume recorded. 
Insights
CSD Volumes 
Index: FY2020 Q1 = 100
FY2020
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
0
30
60
90
120
150
FY2021
FY2022
Inflationary pressure coupled with the 
steep depreciation of the domestic 
currency resulted in a notable increase in 
the prices of raw materials particularly in 
the second half of the year under review.
Source: Internal company data 
To mitigate some of the input cost 
pressures, the business undertook price 
increases in selective stock keeping units 
(SKUs), entered into forward contracts 
and booked consignments in advance to 
secure sufficient stocks in order to sustain 
production. The pressure on margins was 
also offset to an extent by the significant 
operating leverage witnessed from the 
third and fourth quarter of 2021/22. 
 Refer Outlook section for the envisaged 
impact of the ongoing macroeconomic 
crisis - page 136
 y 2020/21 vs. 2021/22: ~2 per cent.
 y Q3 vs. Q4 2021/22: ~8 per cent.
 y 2020/21 vs. 2021/22: ~14 per cent.
 y Q3 vs. Q4 2021/22: ~2 per cent.
Sugar
Packaging 
Returnable glass bottles (RGB) continued to 
decline in volumes on account of the change 
in shopping behaviour of consumers driven 
by social distancing and remote working 
practices. However, polyethylene terephthalate 
(PET) bottles noted a growth. The PET: RGB mix 
stood at 90:10 during the year under review in 
comparison to 86:14 in 2020/21.
Current CSD: Non-CSD Volume Mix 
86:14
2020/21: 89:11
The business continued its diversification 
strategy of creating a sustainable balance 
between its CSD and non-CSD segments. Due 
to the challenging macroenvironment, the 
Beverages business withheld from launching 
new products during the year and carried out 
product trials to strengthen its product pipeline. 
A series of new products are set to be launched 
in the ensuing year, subject to market conditions.
The Beverages business 
acquired a water 
manufacturing plant in 
Kotagala during November 
2021 in line with the business's 
expansion strategy in the 
water category.
The Beverages business acquired a water 
manufacturing plant in Kotagala during 
November 2021 in line with the business's 
expansion strategy in the water category. This 
integration augured well with the business 
achieving over 1 million litres of sales for 
the month of January in the water category, 
for the first time in its history. This sales 
momentum was sustained throughout the 
fourth quarter as well. 
The business continued to implement 
improvements in the PET production 
line which resulted in overall equipment 
effectiveness (OEE) at ~87 per cent which 
was the highest OEE achieved in the history 
of the business. As a result, the highest 
monthly PET production was recorded 
in March 2022. Accordingly, the business 
was also able to achieve efficiency gains in 
relation to changeover time in packaging 
and production capacity. The business also 
placed strategic focus on increasing its 
distribution efficiency through proactive 
engagement and monitoring of distributors 
through integrated digital platforms while 
pursuing route optimisation. A new workflow 
management system was introduced across 
the industry group during the year which 
streamlined manual business processes to 
ensure optimum efficiency. 
The business rolled-out its advanced analytics 
transformation programme during the year, 
where several well-defined advanced analytics 
'use cases' earmarked for the Beverages 
business were successfully piloted, scaled and 
deployed. Preliminary results of these pilot 
projects are promising, with strong indication 
that the anticipated benefits that were evident 
through the initial pilot projects can be 
sustained at scale. 
Awards 
 y
'Cream Soda' was awarded 'Beverage 
Brand of the Year' at the SLIM Kantar 
People's Choice Awards for the 16th 
consecutive year.

82 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Industry Group Review
Consumer Foods
The new 'Feelgood' range launched during the year.
Frozen Confectionery 
The Frozen Confectionery (FC) business 
recorded an encouraging rebound in 
operations with volumes increasing by 17 per 
cent in comparison to the marginal 1 per cent 
decline in volumes recorded in 2020/21. 
The lockdowns imposed in mid-May and 
mid-August to curb the spread of COVID-19 
prompted a higher traction towards in-home 
consumption with the volumes in the Bulk 
segment increasing at a faster pace than 
the Impulse segment during the first half of 
the year under review. Accordingly, the FC 
business recorded a Bulk:Impulse volume 
mix of 70:30. However, with the easing of 
restrictions, consumption patterns gradually 
reverted towards the pre-pandemic mix. The 
Bulk:Impulse volume mix stood at 67:33 for the 
second half of the year under review.
Bulk: Impulse Volume Mix 
68:32
2020/21: 70:30
 y
Despite the impact of the lockdown in 
the first quarter, FC volumes increased 
by 25 per cent in comparison to the 
first quarter of 2020/21. It is noted 
that the comparative quarter was also 
impacted by movement restrictions. 
 y
The rapid spread of COVID-19 during 
mid-August hampered the recovery 
momentum recording a 12 per 
cent decrease in volumes in the 
second quarter in comparison to the 
corresponding quarter of 2020/21. 
 y
Volumes recorded a 37 per cent 
growth in the third quarter of 2021/22 
exceeding pre-pandemic levels on the 
back of an easing of restrictions and 
improved consumer sentiment. 
 y
The strong recovery momentum 
continued in the fourth quarter of the 
year under review resulting in a 25 per 
cent increase in volumes in comparison 
to the corresponding quarter of 2020/21.
 y
The FC business recorded its highest 
monthly sales volume in its history of 
operations in March 2022.
Insights
Frozen Confectionery Volumes
Index: FY2020 Q1 = 100
FY2020
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
0
30
60
90
120
150
FY2021
FY2022
Import and foreign exchange restrictions, 
and inflationary impacts exerted 
significant pressure on raw material 
prices, particularly in the third and fourth 
quarters of 2021/22.
Source: Internal company data. 
In order to manage such impacts, the 
business undertook price increases in 
selective SKUs and entered into forward 
bookings of consignments to manage 
stock levels to ensure uninterrupted 
production. 
 Refer Outlook section for details of 
the envisaged impact of the ongoing 
macroeconomic crisis - page 136
 y 2020/21 vs. 2021/22: ~24 per cent.
 y Q3 vs. Q4 2021/22: ~9 per cent.
 y 2020/21 vs. 2021/22: ~40 per cent.
 y Q3 vs. Q4 2021/22: ~18 per cent.
 y 2020/21 vs. 2021/22: ~18 per cent.
 y Q3 vs. Q4 2021/22: ~19 per cent.
 y 2020/21 vs. 2021/22: ~35 per cent.
 y Q3 vs. Q4 2021/22: ~9 per cent.
Skimmed milk powder
Vegetable fat
Fresh milk
Packaging
Products launched 
'Feelgood' Range
The FC business launched the 'Feelgood' guilt-
free frozen yoghurt range for customers seeking 
wellness and balanced lifestyles in December 
2021. Initial customer feedback on the products 
have been very encouraging. The newly 
launched 'Feelgood' range comprises of:
 Frozen yoghurt: Mixed Berry and 
Tropical Mango 
 No-added sugar ice cream: Chocolate 
and Vanilla
 Popsicles: 2Bar Mixed Fruit and Vanilla 
stick and Vanilla Shock stick
 Tubs and multipacks: Double Delight 2 
litre tub 
The strong recovery 
momentum continued in 
the fourth quarter resulting 
in a 25 per cent increase in 
volumes in comparison to 
the corresponding quarter of 
2020/21.
The FC business recorded its 
highest monthly sales volume 
in its history of operations in 
March 2022.

83
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Meat products under the 'Keells-Krest' and 'Elephant House' brands.
Similar to the Beverages and FC businesses, 
the Convenience Foods business 
witnessed notable price escalations on the 
back of the challenging macroeconomic 
circumstances, especially towards the 
second half of the year under review.
Source: Internal company data. 
The business adopted price increases 
across all SKUs during the year under 
review. Additionally, the business also 
introduced economic value packs, an 
aggressive retail drive to ensure availability 
of products and offered substitute food 
products. In order to ensure minimum 
disruption to production, the business 
entered into forward contracts to secure 
stocks which aided the business to 
achieve an all-time high in production 
during 2021/22. 
 Refer Outlook section for the envisaged 
impact of the ongoing macroeconomic 
crisis - page 136
 y 2020/21 vs. 2021/22: ~25 per cent.
 y Q3 vs. Q4 2021/22: ~11 per cent.
 y 2020/21 vs. 2021/22: ~37 per cent.
 y Q3 vs. Q4 2021/22: ~5 per cent.
 y 2020/21 vs. 2021/22: ~26 per cent.
 y Q3 vs. Q4 2021/22: ~15 per cent.
Chicken
Palm oil
Packaging 
The distributor management system implemented last year titled 'Surge' performed as envisaged 
by facilitating real-time sales information and streamlining sales processes. The FC business rolled-
out its advanced analytics transformation programme during the year, where two 'use cases' of 
several well-defined advanced analytics 'use cases' earmarked for the FC business, are currently at a 
development stage. Further, the new workflow management system implemented during the year 
executed a seamless execution of transactions which minimised delays and improved efficiencies 
in new product developments and capital expenditure approvals. 
Convenience Foods
Keells Food Products (KFP) recorded a 12 per cent increase in volumes in 2021/22 in comparison to 
the 6 per cent decline in volumes recorded in 2020/21. The Convenience Foods business remained 
resilient during the first half of the year under review despite the pandemic imposed challenges, 
with volumes noting a 30 per cent increase in the first quarter albeit its lower base and flat against 
the second quarter in comparison to the corresponding quarters of 2020/21. Volumes noted a 
gradual pickup thereafter aided by a revival in consumer spending and easing of restrictions. 
The resumption of tourism and the revival of consumption accelerated production volumes, 
resulting in the highest annual volume for the year under review and the highest monthly sales 
volume being produced in March 2022, since inception. 
The retail sausages and meatballs categories recorded notable growth in 2021/22, increasing by 
16 per cent and 17 per cent, respectively [2020/21: 44 per cent and 20 per cent, respectively]. The 
highest quarterly volume for retail sausages was recorded originally in the third quarter, and then 
followed by the fourth quarter of 2021/22. Similarly, the meatballs category achieved its highest 
volumes in the history of its operations in March 2022. 
The business continued to maintain its market leadership position during the year under review. 
Modern trade accounted for 34 per cent of volumes, whilst the general trade and HORECA 
channels accounted for 45 per cent and 16 per cent, respectively. The aggressive retail focused 
drive in the processed meat category resulted in the retail contribution improving to 27 per cent 
during the year under review [2020/21: 27 per cent]. 
Given the non-conducive environment in the recent years and limited opportunities to drive 
market activations, and persistently low volumes on the back of multiple challenges, a decision 
was taken to discontinue the 'Ezy rice' product. 
During the year under review, the Convenience Foods business expanded its portfolio by offering 
a range of 'value for money' products:
 y
Launch of the 350g 'Keells Krest Handy Pack' sausages. 
 y
Extension of the soya meat range by launching the 90g 'Cuttlefish' and 'Regular Soya Meat'. 
 y
Extension of the meatballs range with the introduction of the 100g 'Chicken Meatballs Kirata 
Mirisata'.
KFP continued to innovate its digital 
integration by establishing a dedicated power 
business intelligence (BI) portal to improve 
sales and distribution of the business. The 5S 
and Kaizen initiatives were continued during 
the year driving operational efficiencies. The 
workflow management system that was 
implemented during the year facilitated 
digitised operations ensuring a systematic 
process in capital expenditure approvals and 
recipe changes amongst others.

84 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Industry Group Review
Consumer Foods
Income Statement Indicators
Rs.million
2021/22
2020/21
%
Revenue
Beverages and Frozen 
Confectionery (FC)
17,588 
13,962 
26
Convenience Foods
3,420 
2,548 
34
Total
21,008 
16,510 
27
EBITDA* 
Beverages and FC
2,953 
2,836 
4
Convenience Foods
549 
485 
13
Total
3,502 
3,321 
5
PBT 
Beverages and FC
1,962 
1,984 
(1)
Convenience Foods
385 
313 
23
Total 
2,347 
2,297 
2
* Note that EBITDA includes interest income but excludes all impacts from foreign 
currency exchange gains and losses, to demonstrate the underlying cash operational 
performance of businesses.
The ensuing discussion aims to provide an insight to the performance of 
the sectors across the quarters.
Beverages and FC businesses
Beverages and FC
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Beverages (CSD) revenue growth (%)
27
(11)
39
40
Beverages (CSD) volume growth (%)
18
(14)
37
34
FC revenue growth (%)
33
(5)
47
40
FC volume growth (%)
25
(12)
37
25
Beverages and FC EBITDA (Rs.million)
241
502
802
1,407
Beverages and FC EBITDA growth (%)
(39)
(39)
71
22
 y
Both the Beverages and FC businesses continued their strong 
recovery momentum recording a strong growth in volumes and 
revenue in the first quarter. Whilst this growth in volumes and 
revenue translated to higher gross profits and EBITDA, the first 
quarter was impacted on account of higher selling and distribution 
expenses and, to a lesser extent, increased factory related costs due 
to the COVID-19 safety protocols. 
 y
The imposition of the quarantine curfew during the second 
quarter of the year significantly impacted the previously witnessed 
momentum of a rebound in volumes, with the Beverages and FC 
businesses recording declines. Overall profitability and margins of 
both businesses were also impacted by rising raw material prices. 
In order to manage such impacts, the business undertook price 
increases in selective stock holding units (SKUs), predominantly in the 
FC business.  
Financial and Manufactured Capital
Capital Management Review
The section that ensues discusses the performance of the industry group during the year under review, under the key forms of Capital applicable for 
the industry group.
 y
Improved consumer sentiment on the back of relaxation of COVID-19 
restrictions aided a faster recovery in both the Beverages and FC 
businesses during the third and fourth quarters of 2021/22, with both 
businesses achieving strong double-digit growth in volumes and 
profitability. 
 y
Pressure on product margins on account of increasing raw material 
prices continued during the second half of 2021/22, although offset 
to an extent due to a better absorption of fixed costs on account of 
higher volumes within the businesses. 
 y
The Bulk:Impulse revenue mix stood at 51:49 during the year under 
review [2020/21: 50:50].
 y
Interest costs at Ceylon Cold Stores PLC (CCS) increased during the 
year under review on account of the increase in loans obtained for 
expansion purposes and bank overdraft facilities obtained to manage 
working capital requirements.
Convenience Foods
Convenience Foods
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Revenue growth (%)
34
10
38
27
Volume growth (%)
30
0
22
2
EBITDA (Rs.million)
77
98
202
173
EBITDA growth (%)
(15)
(28)
47
41
 y
The Convenience Foods business remained resilient during the year 
under review despite COVID-19 related challenges encountered 
during the first half of 2021/22. 
 y
The resumption in tourism and improved consumer sentiment led 
to the general trade channel and the HORECA channel recording a 
volume growth of 19 per cent and 17 per cent respectively, whilst the 
modern trade channel contracted marginally by 2 per cent during 
the year under review. 
 y
Similar to the Beverages and FC businesses, the Convenience Foods 
business witnessed an increase in raw material prices during the year 
under review, exerting pressure on margins. To mitigate this impact, 
the business undertook price increases across all SKUs and adopted 
cost saving initiatives within the business.
 y
A decision was made to cease operations at the 'Ezy rice' facility 
and discontinue 'Ezy rice' products in the ensuing year. Accordingly, 
relevant impairment charges have been recognised during the year 
under review. 
The recurring EBITDA which excludes fair value gains and losses on 
investment property pertaining to CCS was recorded at Rs.3.48 billion, a 
5 per cent increase against the previous year [2020/21: Rs.3.32 billion].
Improved consumer sentiment on the back 
of relaxation of COVID-19 restrictions aided a 
faster recovery in both the Beverages and FC 
businesses during the third and fourth quarters 
of 2021/22.

85
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
The industry group accounts for a significant proportion of the Group's 
energy and water consumption given the nature of its business. 
Therefore, the industry group closely monitors its environmental impact 
and makes continuous effort to manage such impacts. All operations 
are conducted in accordance with the Group's environmental policies, 
whilst adhering to, and going beyond, all stipulated environmental laws 
and regulations by continuous monitoring and testing. The industry 
group evaluates its performance against industry-wide best practice and 
benchmarks whilst striving to minimise the usage of natural resources 
and materials. 
Natural Capital
14,893
Beverages and FC 
4,688
Convenience Foods
Carbon 
Footprint (MT) 
2025 Goals Status 
The industry group has set sustainability goals to be achieved by 
2024/25. The goals and reduction in usage against the 2018/19 
baseline is depicted below, in order to consolidate and maintain its 
sustainability performance. 
Note: The status disclosed below is the progress made at the end of the current 
financial year and is reported independently by each year against the goal of the 
baseline year.
Goal
CCS: -1.5%
KFP: -1.5%
CICL: -2%
Goal
CCS:  -1.5%
Goal
KFP:  -1%
*  All goals are either on a per l/m3 or per kg basis, other than carbon footprint 
which is on an absolute basis.
Goal
CCS:  -1.3%
KFP:  -1.5%
CICL:  -2%
Goal
CCS: -3.5% 
Status
CCS: 3%
KFP: -5%
CICL: 2%
Status
CCS:  -16%
Status
KFP:  23%
Status
CCS:  -11%
KFP:  31%
CICL:  -19%
Status
CCS: 0.0%
Energy
Steam
Carbon Footprint
Water
Plastic
Energy and emissions management
Relevance: Financial, regulatory and brand reputation 
implications
Approach
 y
Implementing and improving energy efficiency.
 y
Sustainable use of renewable energy sources.
 y
Alignment with international best practice and standards.
 y
Adhering to reduction in energy and carbon footprint 
goals.
Initiatives
 y
Installation of solar panels at the KFP Ja-Ela factory, 
with ~276,000 kWh of renewable energy generation 
capacity annually. 
 y
Generation of 1,079,803 kWh and 185,575 kWh of 
renewable energy in the form of solar power at CICL 
and CCS, respectively.
 y
Installation of a 120kW capacity variable speed drive 
(VSD) for the cold room compressor at the CCS factory 
in Ranala, resulting in annual savings of 82,944 kWh of 
renewable energy. 
 y
CCS continued to maintain the ISO 14001:2015 
certification for its environmental management system. 
 y
Training and awareness sessions were conducted 
for employees on the importance of managing 
environmental impacts. 
Balance Sheet Indicators
Rs.million
2021/22
2020/21
%
Assets
Beverages and FC
16,309 
13,046 
25
Convenience Foods
3,199 
2,868 
12
Total
19,508 
15,914 
23
Debt*
Beverages and FC
2,783 
2,256 
23
Convenience Foods
331 
290 
14
Total
3,114 
2,546 
22
*Excludes lease liabilities.
 y
The Beverages and FC businesses invested in ~3,700 freezers and 
coolers during the year under review. 
 y
Investments pertaining to the data and advanced analytics 
programme and the new workflow management system which was 
implemented across the industry group resulted in an increase in 
intangible assets during the year under review.
 y
Inventory and trade payable balances significantly increased in 
the Beverages and FC businesses due to the rapid increase in raw 
material prices and operational challenges encountered during the 
year under review. 
 y
The increase in debt is primarily attributable to overdraft facilities 
obtained to manage working capital, expansion of the warehouse at 
CCS and funding the acquisition of the water manufacturing plant in 
Kotagala. 
 y
Lease liabilities as at 31 March 2022 stood at Rs.147 million [2020/21: 
Rs.97 million]. Total debt including leases stood at Rs.3.26 billion as at 
31 March 2022.

86 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Waste and effluent management
Relevance: Regulatory and brand reputation implications 
Approach
 y
Compliance with all regulatory requirements for 
responsible waste disposal.
 y
Conformity with plastic waste reduction goals.
Initiatives
 y
Reuse of 23,822 m3 of treated water for gardening and 
general cleaning purposes at CCS and KFP. 
 y
Wastewater at factories was treated through effluent 
treatment plants, prior to discharge. 
 y
Conducted regular water quality tests to ensure 
effluents meet the requisite water quality standards as 
stipulated in the environmental protection license (EPL). 
 y
Monitoring of selected parameters against international 
benchmarks.
 y
Cardboard usage in bottle packaging was reduced in 
the 500 ml and 1 litre bottles resulting in a reduction of 
28,792 kg of cardboard annually. 
 y
CCS launched a wellness Frozen Confectionery 
range using paper-based packaging to kick start the 
sustainable packaging road map. 
 y
In collaboration with 'Zerotrash' and 'Plasticcycle', 
CCS launched a material recovery facility - 'Zerotrash 
Recyclable Plastic Collection Centre' with the objective 
of facilitating responsible consumption and disposal of 
plastic waste.
 y
In collaboration with the Marine Environmental 
Protection Agency (MEPA), CCS strengthened its  
plastic collection mechanism by conducting a beach 
clean-up programme at Crow Island Beach Park which is 
envisaged to continue in the ensuing year. 
 y
CCS initiated plastic waste collection campaigns 
targeting locations associated with cultural, religious 
and festive events along with communication on 
responsible consumption and disposal of plastic waste. 
The initial clean-ups commenced at Adam's Peak, 
Thalawila and Nuwara Eliya.
Industry Group Review
Consumer Foods
Polythene reduction 
CCS continued to place emphasis on polythene reduction through 
initiatives spanning across the supply chain and all product 
categories. Certain initiatives implemented include:
 y
Reduction in the weight of 
polythene used in 1 litre PET 
bottle wrappers from 4.5 mg 
kg to 3.8 mg 
 y
Reduction in the polythene 
gauge in 500 ml PET bottle 
wrappers from 80 microns to 
60 microns
~36,851 kg of 
polythene reduction 
through the initiatives 
implemented
Indicators
Carbon Footprint (MT)
2020/21
11%
2021/22
19,581
17,619
Water Withdrawn (m3)
2020/21
8%
2021/22
482,213
445,759
Waste Disposed (kg ‘000)
2020/21
6%
2021/22
1,664
1,565
Carbon footprint scope 1 and 2 per operational intensity factor
2021/22
2020/21
CCS CO2 kg per litre produced 
0.1
0.1
KFP CO2 kg per kg of processed meat 
produced 
0.9
0.9
CICL CO2 kg per litre produced 
0.4
0.5
Water withdrawal per operational intensity factor
2021/22
2020/21
CCS water withdrawn - litres per litre 
produced
4.0
4.3
KFP water withdrawn - litres per kg of 
processed meat produced
17.9
20.0
CICL water withdrawn - litres per litre 
produced
5.8
6.4
Waste generated per operational intensity factor
2021/22
2020/21
CCS waste generated - kg per litre produced
0.01
0.01
KFP waste generated - kg per kg of 
processed meat produced
0.12
0.13
CICL waste generated - kg per litre produced
0.02
0.01
Solar panels installed at the KFP factory.

87
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Indicators
As a labour-intensive industry group, significant focus is placed to ensure 
that a healthy and safe work environment is provided for all employees. 
Regular training and development programmes are conducted for 
employees to improve skills and productivity. 
Human Capital 
959
Beverages and FC 
404
Convenience Foods
Number of 
Employees 
Talent management 
Relevance: Retaining talent and upgrading skills of 
existing employees towards improving overall quality 
and productivity
Approach
 y
Continuous training and development of employees. 
 y
Promoting open dialogue between employees.
Initiatives
 y
Regular training including specific skill related 
training was provided to employees. 
 y
Employees underwent ~57 hours of training. 
 y
Maintained a healthy working relationship with 
employee unions through open dialogue and joint 
consultative committees.
 y
Focused on increasing female participation in 
non-traditional job roles in addition to conducting 
workshops, engagement activities and training 
programmes aimed at improving gender parity. 
Health and safety
Relevance: Labour intensive operations require focus to 
be placed on occupational health and safety to minimise 
health and safety incidents
Approach
 y
Maintaining health and safety related processes and 
practices.
 y
Training and creating awareness.
Initiatives
 y
CCS and KFP maintained the ISO 45001:2018 certification 
for occupational health and safety at all factories. 
 y
Health and safety trainings were conducted for 
employees, which covered aspects such as firefighting, 
rescue, first aid, safe chemical handling, and food safety. 
 y
Regular awareness sessions were conducted on health 
guidelines and safety precautions.
 y
Workplace safety procedures such as screening employees 
prior to entering the premises, providing adequate sanitary 
facilities, set up of isolation rooms for infected persons and 
transport were provided for employees. 
Injuries (Number)
2020/21
8%
2021/22
13
19
Training (Hours)
2020/21
24%
2021/22
18,267
22,904
It is pertinent to note that majority of the injuries were minor in nature 
and no fatalities were recorded in 2021/22.
The Consumer Foods industry group strives to create value for its 
businesses and value chain partners by maintaining and strengthening 
sustainable relationships with its stakeholders.
The industry group continues to support the development of the local 
economy by sourcing high quality, fresh raw materials from local farmers, 
where possible, and assist businesses in managing the cost of raw 
materials whilst enhancing livelihoods of local communities. 
Product
Total annual 
supply (kg)
Number of 
farmers
 Meat
2,975,973
2,530
 Spices
121,856
2,500
 Cashew nuts
78,521
1,800
 Vanilla
363
2,600
 Ginger
26,540
650
 Kithul jaggery
36,240
150
 Vegetables
227,064
30
 Treacle
150,450
155
 Fresh milk
3,554,080
1,700
Local farmers benefited from guaranteed volumes and price schemes 
offered by the businesses whilst being encouraged to adhere to 
environmentally friendly and efficient agricultural practices to further 
strengthen sustainable value creation.
Product
Number of 
farmers
Total annual 
supply 
(kg'000)
Total annual 
payment 
(Rs.million)
KFP
5,060
3,325
1,346
CCS
7,055
3,846
809
The industry group conducts annual assessments of all its significant 
suppliers to gauge and rectify any negative sustainability impacts, as 
applicable.
Social and Relationship Capital 

88 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Industry Group Review
Consumer Foods
Significant Suppliers 
 y
Plastic packaging suppliers 
 y
Glass bottle suppliers 
 y
Dairy suppliers 
 y
Poultry suppliers 
 y
Sugar suppliers
Supply chain management 
Relevance: Ensuring a continuous supply of 
raw materials which reduces risk, enhances 
brand reputation, and benefits local 
businesses
Approach
 y
Improving sustainable agricultural 
practices.
 y
Enhancing livelihoods of diverse 
communities. 
Initiatives
 y
CCS and KFP continued to source 
ingredients from 12,115 local farmers.
CCS
 y
650 ginger farmers benefited from large 
quantities of dried and sliced ginger 
purchased at guaranteed prices.
 y
2,600 vanilla farmers benefited from 
the purchase of vanilla bean for natural 
vanilla extraction which contributed 
towards sustaining the local vanilla 
industry.
 y
150 kithul jaggery farmers in the 
Southern province continued to benefit 
from the ongoing purchasing schemes. 
 y
CCS actively encouraged female 
participation in the value chain focusing 
on areas such as sales and distribution 
and sourcing of materials. 
KFP
 y
Continued its sustainable sourcing of 
poultry, spices, and vegetables from 
5,060 farmers. 
 y
Sourced all ingredients locally, excluding 
instances of raw material shortage.
Community development
Relevance: Building sustainable relationships in order to promote social 
responsibility and integration within the community
Approach
 y
Building and maintaining relationships with diverse communities. 
 y
Development of skills and employability of youth by providing job 
opportunities.
Initiatives
CCS continued its collaboration with John Keells Foundation (JKF) in 
John Keells 'Praja Shakthi' initiative in Ranala including the following:
 Launch of the pilot project of John Keells 'Praja Shakthi' Digital Learning 
Initiative in collaboration with Deutsche Bank, JKOA and Dialog Axiata 
PLC under which electronic tabs and data packages were distributed 
to 50 disadvantaged school children in the Kaduwela DSD to facilitate 
online learning during the pandemic and other restrictions. 
 y
Awarded 37 school children scholarships under the 'English for Teens' 
initiative of JKF's English Language Scholarship Programme (ELSP).
 y
Continued to upskill and empower female entrepreneurs engaged in 
paper production by:
 y
Upskilling and facilitating market linkages for the sale of Vesak 
lanterns, resulting in 1,883 lanterns being sold despite pandemic-
related lockdowns in the lead up to the Vesak festival.
 y
Organising workshops and awareness sessions on financial 
literacy and other capacity building sessions.
 y
Supported the pottery community by funding and facilitating the 
renovation of a clay mixing machine. 
 y
Under JKF's Higher Education Scholarship Programme five students 
were awarded scholarships. 
 y
With the support from the Kaduwela district secretariat, a career 
guidance programme was conducted for 15 youth in the vicinity.
KFP in collaboration with the Central Environmental Authority continued 
to promote environment stewardship among school children by 
creating awareness on waste management. 
KFP in collaboration with JKF awarded 31 deserving school children in 
Pannala and Ja-Ela with English and IT scholarships under the English for 
Teens' initiative of JKF's English Language Scholarship Programme. 
The Frozen Confectionery business launched 'Dinannee' - a women 
empowerment programme - with the support of Government and  
Non-Government agencies to support women's livelihoods by providing 
job opportunities in ice cream operations. A total of two push carts and 
four parlour outlets have been distributed and a total of two company 
sales representatives have been recruited under this initiative.
During the year under review, JKF in partnership with KFP and JMSL 
launched John Keells 'Praja Shakthi' in Ja-Ela and conducted the 
following activities:
 Needs assessments and identification of two livelihood initiatives - 
namely livestock farming and the production of spices - with the aim 
of increasing the yield and quality of production whilst expanding 
potential markets.
 Conducted an awareness session on substance abuse prevention, 
especially through early childhood education, benefiting a total of 48 
Government officers.
Launch of the pilot project of John 
Keells 'Praja Shakthi' Digital Learning 
Initiative in collaboration with 
Deutsche Bank, JKOA and Dialog 
Axiata PLC under which electronic tabs 
and data packages were distributed to 
50 disadvantaged school children.

89
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Product quality and responsibility
Relevance: Financial, regulatory, brand reputation, and 
business continuity implications
Approach
 y
Formulation of new products and services.
 y
Ensuring effective and responsible marketing 
communication. 
Initiatives
 y
Responsible formulation of recipes to ensure highest 
standards of nutrition and adherence to health 
regulations and guidelines. 
 y
Maintenance of ISO 22000:2015 food safety 
management system certification.
 y
Maintenance of ISO 9001 quality management 
system certification. 
 y
Effective and responsible communication of nutrition 
facts and raw materials. 
 y
Of the 321 stock keeping units (SKUs) manufactured: 
 y
100 per cent carried information on the 
ingredients used 
 y
0.3 per cent carried information on raw materials 
sourced 
 y
83 per cent and 79 per cent carried information 
on safe use and responsible disposal of products, 
respectively. 
The Consumer Foods industry group focuses on maintaining excellence 
in product quality whilst ensuring safety in its production process. The 
businesses adheres to international quality standards with assurance 
renewed annually through third party verification.
Intellectual Capital 
Student registration at the launch of John Keells 'Praja Shakthi' Digital Learning 
Initiative at CCS, Ranala.

90 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Retail
Industry Group Review
Industry Group Structure 
Supermarkets 
 y
JayKay Marketing Services (Private) Limited (JMSL) 
operates the 'Keells' chain of modern retail outlets 
and the 'Nexus' loyalty programme. 
 y
128 outlets across the island as at 31 March 
2022.
 y
~1.6 million 'Nexus' loyalty card members.
 y
Over ~340 'Keells' private-label products.
 y
7 collection centres across the country 
working with ~2,000 active farmers.
 y
Employment for ~6,000 individuals.
 y
Marketplace for ~80 large and small-scale 
suppliers.
 y
The state-of-the-art distribution centre (DC), 
under LogiPark International (Private) Limited (LPI) 
centralising JMSL's offerings across the dry, fresh, 
and chilled categories.
 y
Sri Lanka's largest modern retail chain DC with 
the ability to cater to over ~250 outlets. 
 y
Employment for ~500 individuals in the first 
year of operations.
Office Automation 
 y
John Keells Office Automation (JKOA) is the 
authorised distributor for a variety of world-class 
office automation brands.
 y
National distributor for Samsung smartphones.
 y
Sole distributor for Toshiba B&W and colour 
digital multi-function printers (MFPs) and 
Print-Now-Pay-Later (PNPL) digital copier 
rental solutions.
 y
Authorised distributor for ASUS commercial 
series notebooks.
 y
Other products include laser printers, large 
format displays (LFD), digital duplicators, 
POS systems, receipt and label printers, tabs, 
accessories, mobiles, and projectors from a 
variety of world class brands.
Inputs (Rs.million)
2021/22
2020/21
%
2019/20
Total assets
52,476 
44,412 
18 
32,351 
Total equity
3,487 
4,795 
(27)
3,420 
Total debt1
15,342 
13,048 
18 
10,928 
Capital employed2
29,046 
26,876 
8 
21,859 
Employees (No.)3
6,295 
5,864 
7 
4,956 
Outputs (Rs.million)
2021/22
2020/21
%
2019/20
Turnover
90,842 
70,229 
29 
64,762 
EBIT
4,928 
3,287 
50 
3,194 
PBT
7 
1,818 
(100)
1,492 
PAT
(865)
1,569 
(155)
1,070 
EBIT per employee
1 
1 
40 
0 
Carbon footprint (MT)
36,230 
33,168 
9 
32,480 
1. Excludes lease liabilities.
2. Includes lease liabilities.
3. As per the sustainability reporting boundary.
Contribution to 
the John Keells Group
37%
Revenue
23%
EBIT
5%
Capital Employed
38%
Carbon Footprint

91
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Macroeconomic Update 
 y
Gross domestic product (GDP) in Sri Lanka recorded a 3.7 per cent growth in CY2021, in 
comparison to a 3.6 per cent contraction recorded in CY2020 primarily due to the impact 
of COVID-19 in CY2020. 
 y
Headline inflation, as measured by the year-on-year change in the National Consumer 
Price Index (NCPI) accelerated to 14.0 per cent at the end of CY2021 in comparison to 
the 4.6 per cent recorded in CY2020, on the back of global and domestic supply side 
disruptions, global commodity price pressures and upward revisions to administered 
prices. Average annual inflation was recorded at 7.0 per cent, driven by notable increases 
in the food category. 
 y
Core inflation stood at 10.8 per cent in December 2021 in comparison to 4.7 per cent in 
December 2020.
 y
As at March 2022, the headline inflation and core inflation stood at 21.5 per cent and 17.3 
per cent, respectively, mainly due to the higher price levels that prevailed in both the food 
and non-food categories. Accordingly, the year-on-year inflation of the food category 
increased to 29.5 per cent in March 2022 from 21.5 per cent in December 2021 and the 
year-on-year inflation of the non-food category increased to 14.5 per cent in March 2022 
from 7.6 per cent in December 2021.
 y
Private consumption expenditure (PCE) at current prices recorded a notable growth of 
10.8 per cent in CY2021, compared to the lacklustre growth of 1.0 per cent in CY2020, 
primarily driven by an increase in food expenditure. 
 y
The LMD-Nielsen Business Confidence Index (BCI) was recorded at 132 points in March 
2022, a 11-month high, with the index edging towards where it stood before the 
COVID-19 outbreak in March 2021. However, in April 2022, BCI plummeted to 116 points, 
to its lowest during the year in lieu of the ongoing macroeconomic challenges. 
 y
Exchange rate pressures on the back of a lack of liquidity in the domestic foreign 
exchange market amplified in CY2021, which led to a measured adjustment in the 
exchange rate in early March 2022, resulting in a steep depreciation of the Rupee by 49 
per cent from December 2021 to March 2022.
 Refer External Environment and Outlook sections for details of the envisaged impact of the ongoing 
macroeconomic crisis - page 37 and 136
External Environment and Operational Review 
Supermarkets
The performance of the Supermarket business continued its recovery aided by an encouraging 
top line growth and various mechanisms aimed at managing rising costs, and augmenting its 
supply chain to ensure availability and affordability across its offerings, which were rolled-out in 
response to the challenging circumstances that prevailed following the intermittent lockdowns 
on account of COVID-19 during the first half of the year under review and the deterioration of the 
economy towards the latter end of 2021/22.
The key performance indicators pertaining to the Supermarket business are as follows: 
%
2021/22
2020/21
Same store footfall growth 
4.5
(31.5)
ABV growth 
8.0
33.4
Same store sales growth 
12.9
(8.6)
Given the change in the shopping patterns of customers where the frequency and purchase 
patterns due to consolidation of baskets changed, the statistics on footfall and basket values 
were distorted during the last few years. The below table provides the quarterly trend of the key 
indicators, depicting the recovery momentum from the third quarter onwards.
2021/22 (%)
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Same store footfall growth 
37.6
(37.2)
18.5
17.0
ABV growth 
1.2
45.3
(7.6)
1.6
Same store sales growth 
39.3
(8.7)
9.5
18.9
 y
The recovery momentum witnessed in 
the latter end of 2020/21 was sustained 
in the first quarter of 2021/22, with same 
store sales recording a double-digit growth 
despite travel restrictions imposed on 
account of COVID-19 which led to outlet 
closures in mid-May 2021. 
 y
Whilst this momentum continued 
thereafter, the rapid spread of COVID-19 
and the imposition of quarantine curfew 
in mid-August impacted the business as 
outlets were closed for ~1.5 months. The 
loss of revenue during this period was 
partially offset by an increase in online 
sales. 
 y
With the easing of restrictions, outlets 
recommenced operations with strict 
adherence to health and safety guidelines 
issued by the health authorities and 
adopted a rapid vaccination drive amongst 
frontline workers and other employees at 
outlets.
 y
During the third quarter, the improvement 
of consumer sentiment and 'pent up' 
demand led to an increase in footfall and 
hence, same store sales, especially during 
the peak season. This recovery momentum 
continued onto the fourth quarter. 
 y
The average basket value (ABV) is derived 
based on the weight of purchase (WOP) 
and the retail sale price (RSP). Given the 
inverse relationship between the WOP and 
inflation, the ABV during the third quarter 
witnessed a decline due to the rapid 
increase in food inflation at the time, which 
further exacerbated during the fourth 
quarter. However, the growth in ABV in the 
fourth quarter recorded an increase due to 
a low base effect of ABV in the comparative 
quarter last year. 
 y
In order to address this impact, the 
business implemented cost management 
and supply chain strategies which in result 
promoted affordability and availability 
of items. This also contributed to a shift 
in shopping behaviour to modern trade 
from general trade. Against this backdrop, 
footfall recorded steady growth. 
 y
This increase in footfall coupled with 
rising inflation resulted in an increase 
in same store sales during the fourth 
quarter, despite a slowdown in customer 
discretionary spending in lieu of the 
gradual tightening macroeconomic 
conditions.

92 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
The Supermarket business was better geared 
in navigating COVID-19 related disruptions 
during the year on account of the existing 
infrastructure and delivery mechanisms 
which was implemented in response to 
the pandemic in 2020/21. The e-commerce 
platforms of the business, comprising of the 
online website, the mobile app and WhatsApp 
bots, performed well with increased traction 
during periods of lockdown; where online 
sales accounted for a significant amount of 
daily volumes traded. Consumer behaviour 
suggests an inclination to shop at physical 
stores where online sales witnessed temporary 
upticks during periods of lockdowns, with a 
reversal in trends evident thereafter with the 
easing of restrictions. 
The Supermarket business faced a series of 
challenges on account of the deterioration of 
the economy and other market externalities, 
particularly towards the latter end of the year 
under review: 
 y
Challenges in sourcing due to supply chain 
constraints, especially shortages of certain 
stock keeping units (SKUs). Price controls 
on essential items such as flour, rice and 
sugar further exacerbated the impact. 
 y
The fertilizer shortage arising due to the 
import ban on agrochemicals in April 2021 
precipitated a drop in crop yields which 
resulted in significant price increases and 
limited availability of fresh produce.
 y
The rapid increase in the cost of 
construction materials and the shortage 
of foreign exchange required for the 
importation of materials led to delays in 
construction exerting pressure on the 
business's outlet expansion plans. 
 y
Recurrent disruptions to electricity supply 
led to a higher use of generators at outlets 
which contributed to higher operational 
costs. Whilst the business has managed 
the impact on operations thus far, this was 
further exacerbated by the shortage of fuel 
in the country. 
Industry Group Review
Retail
 y
Liquidity constraints in the foreign currency market, the devaluation of the local currency and 
import restrictions adversely impacted the business's ability to import products. 
Several measures were undertaken by JMSL during the year in response to the evolving 
macroeconomic environment:
 y
Given the notable shortages in essential goods and other fast-moving items, the business 
expanded its 'Keells' private-label offering to drive better choice and 'value for money' for 
consumers, whilst managing inventory and gaps, which contributed to increased customer 
footfall. However, certain SKUs in the private-label had to be temporarily halted due to 
aforementioned challenges and shortages.
 y
During the year under review, 44 new 'Keells' private-label products were launched, 
resulting in the total SKUs count at ~340 products. 
 y
Private-label products accounted for 5 per cent of revenue [2020/21: 4 per cent]. 
 y
Continuous negotiations with suppliers were held on sourcing essential SKUs in order to 
manage availability and affordability of items. JMSL demarcated specific teams for forward 
buying and to continuously engage in procuring stocks at an early stage, bulk buying and 
minimise the risk of stockouts. 
 y
Proactive steps were taken to strengthen the import channel by directly liaising with foreign suppliers. 
 y
Various measures were rolled to manage the liquidity requirement on foreign exchange 
including the promotion of foreign currency receipts through the online sales platforms. 
 y
Entered into forward buying contracts for building materials and other items required for the 
construction of 'Keells' outlets in the pipeline, where possible and feasible. 
 y
Select chemical fertilizers were allowed to be imported from July 2021 onwards under a license. 
Since the lifting of the import ban from November 2021, yields have gradually recovered.
Outlet Expansion
Outlet expansion was moderate due to pandemic related disruptions. The imposition of lockdowns 
resulted in delays in obtaining construction approvals from Government authorities and the rapid 
spread of COVID-19 at construction sites resulted in delays and supply chain disruptions. 'Keells' 
expanded its outlet network with the addition of five new outlets to its footprint during the year, 
with the total outlet count at 128 outlets as at 31 March 2022 [2020/21: 123 outlets].
The business will closely review and monitor the expansion of its network considering the 
uncertainty and volatility on construction related costs. Such expansions in the outlet base will 
be considered on a case-by-case basis, with feasibilities stress-tested under extreme sensitised 
scenarios.
In January 2022, a new concept 'Keells' outlet was opened at Lauries Road, Colombo. This outlet 
brings innovative technology features such as 'Scan & Go' self-checkouts and a food ordering kiosk 
in a very sleek and contemporary atmosphere. In keeping with 'Keells' strategy of promoting fresh 
produce and ready to consume food, a 'Kafe' serving affordable coffee, snacks and beverages is a key 
feature of the store. These elements will be rolled-out in select outlets in line with expansion plans.
'Scan & Go' self-checkouts.
The new concept 'Keells' outlet at Lauries Road, Colombo.

93
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Distribution Centre 
The state-of-the-art centralised distribution centre (DC) in Kerawalapitiya, constructed at a cost of Rs.4.30 billion, commenced operations in January 
2022 facilitating efficiencies by centralising offerings across fresh, dry and chilled categories. The ~260,000 sq.ft. facility is the largest DC in the modern 
retail sector of Sri Lanka, equipped with the latest innovative technology, systems, and health and safety standards in accordance with international 
best practice. The DC will be instrumental in streamlining the 'Keells' supply chain over ~250 outlets.
Technological Advancements
Fresh DC
Dry DC
Chilled DC
Operational Efficiencies
 y
Temperature-controlled chamber 
to maintain the quality of produce.
 y
Automated re-packing machines 
to promote timely stock 
distribution and availability. 
 y
A fully automated tray wash plant 
to cleanse all crates maintaining 
hygienic practices. 
 y
All items transported in roller 
cages and dollies with minimum 
human intervention. 
 y
System guided operations to aid 
higher level of process accuracy 
and productivity.
 y
Installation of advanced material 
handling equipments in the DC.
 y
Installation of solar power panels 
in the pipeline, which will reduce 
energy costs.
 y
Commenced operations in January 
2022.
 y
Entails handling fruits and vegetables.
 y
All fresh items are handled in a 
temperature-controlled environment 
enhancing the 'Freshness 
Guaranteed' pledge to serve fresh 
produce to customers.
 y
Commenced operations in February 
2022.
 y
Entails handling dry food and  
non-food items.
 y
Scheduled to commence centralised 
operations in the first quarter of 
2022/23.
 y
Entails handling chilled items, 
maintaining availability at outlets.
 y
Faster response to customer demand.
 y
Capacity to centralise all suppliers 
and consolidate orders. 
 y
Consistent delivery times and 
reducing stock holding costs at the 
back-store of outlets.
 y
Improved on-shelf availability and 
buffer stocks.
 y
Improved quality control and 
reduction in wastage.
 y
Reduced store footprint at the 
storage areas of outlets.
The state-of-the-art centralised distribution centre.

94 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Industry Group Review
Retail
 y
'Imperfect Produce' launched in January 2021 was extended across outlets providing 
customers the option to purchase produce at a 20 per cent discount in comparison to 
conventional items.
 y
The business introduced robotic process automation driving marketing initiatives across the 
Supermarket business enabling teams to switch to creative automation. 
 y
The business continued to focus on an omni-channel strategy to cater to different customer 
segments and needs.
Awards 
 y
Ranked as the 'Strongest Brand in Sri Lanka 2021' for the first time in its history and the 
'Most Valuable Supermarket Brand 2021' by Brand Finance.
 y
Winner of the 'Sustainable Initiative of the Year – Sri Lanka' and 'Food and Beverage 
Retailer of the Year – Sri Lanka' at the Retail Asia Awards 2021. 
 y
Bronze award – 'Service Brand of the Year' at SLIM Brand Excellence Awards 2021.
 y
Silver award – 'Best Use of Technology in Marketing' at SLIM Digis 2.1.
Office Automation
The Office Automation business recorded an encouraging growth during the year under review 
primarily driven by mobile phone sales which recorded strong double digit growth in volumes. 
The growth in mobile phone sales was aided by the introduction of various models by Samsung. 
The copier and printer business segment experienced a recovery of activities with the ease of 
lockdowns and businesses returning to work. The business was also successful in securing a 
number of tenders for laptops and smart boards with institutions. JKOA continued to maintain its 
market leadership position in the copier vertical during the year under review.
The ongoing macroeconomic crisis raised a series of challenges for the Office Automation business 
as mobile phones and laptops were categorised as non-essential items with limited imports. This 
was more pronounced towards the latter end of the year under review where the business faced 
significant challenges in importing inventory for sale given restrictions on imports, constraints on 
opening letters of credit and foreign currency liquidity pressures in the market. 
 Refer Outlook section for details of the envisaged impact of the ongoing macroeconomic crisis - page 136
The Office Automation business carried out digitisation initiatives during the year under review 
to strengthen its salesforce by adopting a customer relationship management (CRM) system 
which improved the sales invoicing process; business intelligence (BI) powered dashboards were 
used amongst staff for better insights. In relation to the copier and printer business segment, 
the e-bridge cloud connect (ECC) central management system implemented during the year 
facilitated proactive resolutions of copier breakdowns by online monitoring and configuration 
which led to reduced onsite visits and downtime, enhancing customer satisfaction.
Product and Process Initiatives
 y
'Keells' website 
 y
Many incremental improvements were 
implemented on the 'Keells' website 
including the ability to accept foreign 
currency transactions, faster and secure 
payment processing, pre-authorisation 
of credit and debit cards, search 
enhancements and access to a wider 
range of mobile devices.
 y
Process improvements on online 
operations were also implemented 
including, system developments for 
order delivery and fill rates, introduction 
of thermal protected delivery bags, 
improvements on online delivery 
partner processes such as onboarding 
agreements coupled with improved 
efficiencies of online deliveries.
 y
Advanced analytics transformation 
programme 
 y
During the year under review, identified 
'use cases' were fully rolled, yielding 
promising results, with pilot projects 
delivering evidence of significant value 
that can be unlocked from translating 
advanced analytics insights into front 
line business interventions. 
 y
As in the previous financial year, the 
effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on 
business operations necessitated a 
review of the timing of piloting and 
rolling out of some 'use cases'. However, 
despite these challenges, several 'use 
cases' were successfully piloted, scaled 
and deployed.
 y
Several features such as 'Scan & Go' 
self-checkouts, queue buster – a system 
that enables faster check outs during 
peak hours at outlets by producing 
quick response (QR) codes, restaurant 
management systems and self-checkouts 
were introduced at select outlets 
improving operational efficiencies.
JKOA showroom at the One Galle Face Mall.
'Scan & Go' self-checkouts, 
queue buster – a system that 
enables faster check outs 
during peak hours at outlets by 
producing quick response (QR) 
codes, restaurant management 
systems and self-checkouts 
were introduced at select 
outlets improving operational 
efficiencies.

95
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Income Statement Indicators
Rs.million
2021/22
2020/21
%
Revenue
Supermarkets 
67,085 
54,795 
22
Office Automation
23,757 
15,434 
54
Total
90,842 
70,229 
29
EBITDA* 
Supermarkets 
5,204 
4,144 
26
Office Automation
2,345 
1,379 
70
Total
7,549 
5,523 
37
PBT
Supermarkets 
849 
416 
104
Office Automation
(842)
1,402 
(160)
Total 
7 
1,818 
(100)
* Note that EBITDA includes interest income but excludes all impacts from foreign 
currency exchange gains and losses, to demonstrate the underlying cash operational 
performance of businesses.
Supermarkets
 y
Given the change in the shopping patterns of customers and the 
volatility of market conditions, the ensuing discussion aims to provide 
an insight to the performance of the business across the quarters.
Supermarket business (2021/22)
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Same store sales (%)
39.3
(8.7)
9.5
18.9
Revenue (Rs.million)
15,096
14,030
18,425
19,535
Revenue growth (%)
53
0
18
29
EBITDA (Rs.million)
 1,094 
 579 
 1,573 
 1,958 
EBITDA growth (%)
254
(46)
15
40
EBITDA margin (%)
7.2
4.1
8.5
10.0
 y
As outlined in the Operational Review, the recovery momentum 
continued in the first quarter, with same store sales recording a 
double-digit growth despite the imposition of travel restrictions on 
account of COVID-19.
 y
This momentum was hampered in the second quarter with the rapid 
spread of COVID-19, which was followed by lockdowns, leading to 
a decrease in revenue. The loss of revenue during this period was 
partially offset by an increase in online sales. 
 y
It is pertinent to note that staff costs in relation to COVID-19 
treatments and quarantine facilities increased during the second 
quarter which impacted EBITDA.
Financial and Manufactured Capital
Capital Management Review
The section that ensues discusses the performance of the industry group 
during the year under review, under the key forms of Capital applicable 
for the industry group.
 y
Improved consumer sentiment on the back of easing of restrictions in 
the third quarter led to an increase in same store sales and revenue.
 y
Interest expenses increased by 14 per cent due to an increase in the 
cost of borrowings during the year under review and the increase in 
notional interest charge stemming from SLFRS 16 – Leases.
Office Automation
 y
Despite the challenging environment, the business recorded a strong 
performance with revenue increasing by 54 per cent on account of a 
strong double-digit growth in mobile phone volumes. 
 y
The EBITDA margin of the business increased to 9.9 per cent from 8.9 
per cent which was recorded in 2020/21 due to the implementation 
of stringent cost controls despite pressures faced on restrictions on 
imports, constraints in opening letters of credit and foreign currency 
liquidity pressures in the market.
 y
The sharp devaluation of the local currency which took place during 
the fourth quarter led to a significant difference between EBITDA and 
PBT on account of exchange losses on its USD Dollar denominated 
trade payable balances, which adversely impacted the profitability of 
the company. 
Balance Sheet Indicators
Rs.million
2021/22
2020/21
%
Assets
Supermarkets 
 40,615 
 35,441 
15
Office Automation
 11,861 
 8,971 
32
Total
 52,476 
 44,412 
18
Debt*
Supermarkets 
15,130 
13,047 
16
Office Automation
212 
1 
18,385
Total
15,342 
13,048 
18
*Excludes lease liabilities.
Supermarkets
 y
The increase in the asset base primarily stemmed from the newly 
constructed distribution centre (DC) in the Supermarket business 
which commenced operations during the year under review.
 y
The Supermarket business continued its upgrades to the 'Keells' 
website and other support systems which led to an increase in 
intangible assets during the year.
 y
The increase in debt is driven by loans taken to fund the construction 
of the DC and outlet expansion. It should be noted that bank 
overdraft facilities of the Supermarket business reduced during the 
year due to the subdued outlet expansion resulting in lower working 
capital requirements and the conscious strategy of reprofiling its 
borrowings portfolio where overdraft facilities were moved into term 
loans. 
 y
Lease liabilities as at 31 March 2022 stood at Rs.10.21 billion [2020/21: 
Rs.9.01 billion]. Total debt including leases stood at Rs.25.34 billion as 
at 31 March 2022. 

96 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Industry Group Review
Retail
The Retail industry group conducts operations in accordance with the 
Group's environmental policies with strict adherence to all relevant 
environmental laws and regulations, whilst adopting measures to 
minimise impacts from business operations. 
Natural Capital
36,018 
Supermarkets 
212
Office Automation
Carbon 
Footprint (MT) 
Energy and emissions management
Relevance: Financial, regulatory, and brand reputation 
implications
Approach
 y
Implementing and improving energy efficiency.
 y
Use of renewable energy sources.
 y
Alignment with international best practice and 
standards.
Initiatives
 y
Continued the use of solar power systems in 'Keells' 
outlets during the year under review. This resulted in 
~10.1 million kWh of renewable energy generated 
by 80 outlets, constituting 16 per cent of the total 
energy requirement. 
 y
Continuous use of skylights, LED lights, and efficient 
cooling systems at 'Keells' outlets maintaining energy 
efficient building design. 
Solar photovoltaic (PV) energy generation across the Supermarket 
business against the 2018/19 baseline:
Goal
125% 
 by 2024/25 
Note: The status disclosed above is the progress made at the end of the current 
financial year and is reported independently against the goal of the baseline year.
Status
32% 
 during 2021/22
Energy
Office Automation 
 y
The increase in assets is driven by an increase in cash, short-
term investments and inventory in line with higher operational 
performance. 
 y
Bank overdrafts noted an increase during the year under review on 
account of the aforementioned constraints and pressures on meeting 
working capital requirements.
Waste and effluent management
Relevance: Regulatory and brand reputation implications 
and stakeholder expectations for plastic management
Approach
 y
Compliance with all regulatory requirements in 
relation to responsible waste disposal.
 y
Establishing a plastic waste reduction goal.
Initiatives
 y
Reuse of treated wastewater for gardening and 
general cleaning purposes at selected 'Keells' outlets. 
 y
Conducting regular water quality tests for outlets 
to ensure that all effluents meet the requisite water 
quality standards.
 y
JKOA organised an awareness programme to educate 
and encourage its customers on correct methods of 
disposing e-waste.
Usage of single-use polythene bags at 'Keells' outlets by 2024/25 
Usage of single-use packaging for fresh food by ensuring they are 
reusable, recyclable or compostable by 2024/25 
Goal
50% 
 by 2024/25 
Goal
50% 
 by 2024/25 
Note: The status disclosed above is the progress made at the end of the current 
financial year and is reported independently against the goal of the baseline year.
Status
35% 
 during 2021/22
Status
58% 
 during 2021/22
Plastic
Indicators
Carbon Footprint (MT)
2020/21
9%
2021/22
36,230
33,168
Water Withdrawn (m3)
2020/21
10%
2021/22
282,480
254,861
Waste Disposed (kg ‘000)
2020/21
2021/22
3,820
3,399
12%

97
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Carbon footprint scope 1 and 2 per operational intensity factor
2021/22
2020/21
JMSL CO2 kg per sq. ft. of outlet area
31.4
30.6
JKOA CO2 kg per sq. ft. of office space
10.8
10.7
Water withdrawal per operational intensity factor
2021/22
2020/21
JMSL water withdrawn - litres per sq. ft. of 
outlet area
244.8
234.5
Waste generated per operational intensity factor
2021/22
2020/21
JMSL waste generated - kg per sq. ft. of 
outlet areas
3.3
3.1
* Water usage and waste generated at JKOA are not disclosed as they are not 
considered to be material.
'Keells' Plastic Promise 
In working towards its commitment of reducing single-use plastics 
and packaging by 50 per cent by 2024/25, the Supermarket business 
continued the following initiatives: 
Initiative
Monthly impact
'Keells' green bags and eco-friendly 
reusable bags 
~50,000+ reusable bag 
sold
~30,000+ bags reused
~80,000+ plastic straws 
reduced
~500+ kg plastic collected 
at 47 'Plasticcycle' bins 
located at 'Keells' outlets
Continuation of BYOB (Bring Your 
Own Bag) and BYOC (Bring Your 
Own Container) initiatives, where a 
Rs.4 discount was offered per bag/
container.
Over 70 per cent of aluminium foil 
boxes were substituted with kraft 
boxes at food preparation counters at 
'Keells' outlets.
Plastic cutlery were substituted with 
wooden cutlery at food preparation 
counters at 'Keells' outlets.
Compostable bags were provided 
at fish, meat, fruit, and vegetable 
counters and for top crust bread 
packing at 'Keells' outlets.
Paper straws were made available at 
juice counters.
As a part of the 'Plasticcycle', the 
Group's social entrepreneurship 
project, bins were placed at 'Keells' 
outlets to encourage customers to 
recycle plastic items.
Given the nature of operations, labour retention continues to be 
a challenge for both the Supermarket and Office Automation 
businesses. Strong emphasis is placed on providing continuous 
training opportunities with the aim of developing skills and improving 
productivity of employees. Further, career development opportunities 
are also provided to retain employees whilst establishing stringent 
health and safety measures to facilitate a safe work environment. 
Human Capital 
Number of 
Employees 
6,127 
Supermarkets 
168
Office Automation
Health and safety
Relevance: Ensuring a safe and healthy work environment 
for all employees which is pivotal for employee well-being. 
Value creation through improved productivity and reduced 
health and safety related incidences at the workplace
Approach
 y
Maintaining health and safety related processes and 
practices. 
 y
Training and creating awareness.
Initiatives
 y
Continuous occupational safety training programmes 
were conducted for employees.
 y
Safety gear was provided for 5,110 staff in Supermarkets.
 y
In-store and digital safety awareness materials were 
made available to staff. 
 y
SLSI 1672 certification was obtained for the COVID-19 
safety management system at 123 'Keells' outlets.
 y
Transport arrangements were provided to night shift 
employees at 'Keells' outlets. 
 y
Random PCR and rapid antigen tests were conducted 
for employees. 
 y
COVID-19 vaccination camps were conducted for 
employees.
 y
~650 employees completed the gender based 
violence and child protection e-module under John 
Keells Foundation (JKF)'s 'Project WAVE' (Working 
Against Violence through Education).
 y
Regular safety audits and awareness sessions were 
conducted at 'Keells' outlets to ensure adherence to 
all health and safety guidelines. 
 y
ISO 45001:2018 certification was obtained by the 
Hokandara 'Keells' outlet for the occupational health 
and safety management system.
 y
JMSL introduced a loyalty app for outlet staff through 
the newly launched online engagement platform 
which provides a range of benefits such as in-store 
discounts and attractive offers through partnering 
with other companies.

98 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Industry Group Review
Retail
Talent management 
Relevance: To retain talent and continuously upgrade 
skills of existing staff to enable delivery of superior 
customer service excellence
Approach
 y
Continuous training and development of employees. 
 y
Driving employee diversity, equity and inclusion 
(DE&I) initiatives.
Initiatives
 y
The retail management trainee programme was 
conducted where selected recruits were offered 
the opportunity to fast-track career progression to 
managerial positions.
 y
The 'Keells Retail Academy' digital learning platform 
provided opportunities for both head office and 
outlet staff to complete learning modules online and 
enhance skills.
 y
Training was provided in collaboration with the 
National Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority 
(NAITA) at 'Keells' outlets.
 y
DE&I initiatives:
 y
Inclusion of the 'She Inspires Award' category at 
JMSL's annual 'Head Office Employee of the Year' 
award ceremony with the aim of recognising 
exemplary female role models. 
 y
Mentorship programmes were offered to select 
female cluster HR managers for the preparation of 
future responsibilities.
 y
A dedicated article 'Ladies of Keells' was 
introduced in the JMSL newsletter featuring 
female employees at 'Keells' and their 
achievements. 
 y
Steps were taken to reduce gender gaps in non-
traditional roles, such as at meat counters. 
Indicators
Injuries (Number)
2020/21
430%
2021/22
137
26
Training (Hours)
2020/21
10%
2021/22
158,962
143,285
Note: Mass scale recruitment campaigns carried out were successful in attracting 
employees. As a result, the number of employees recruited during peak seasons were 
substantially higher in comparison to off-peak seasons which resulted in a higher 
number of injuries of new recruits in tandem with increased level of operations. It is 
pertinent to note that a majority of the injuries were minor in nature and no fatalities 
were recorded in 2021/22.
The Retail industry group places importance on building mutually 
beneficial relationships with its stakeholders, especially supply chain 
partners given the need to maintain a continuous supply of products to 
its customers. 
The Supermarket business engaged in a range of initiatives to 
disseminate knowledge and share best practices amongst its diverse 
farmer community as well as promote sustainable farming initiatives. 
This also contributed towards improving the livelihoods of communities 
and development of the local economy.
Number of 
farmers
Total annual 
supply 
(kg'000)
Total annual 
payment 
(Rs.million)
JMSL
2,162
24,454
3,964
Businesses in the industry group annually assess significant suppliers, 
including outsourced services, to gauge and remedy any negative 
sustainability impacts, as applicable. 
Significant Suppliers 
 y
Dry food product suppliers 
 y
Frozen and chilled product suppliers 
 y
Fresh meat suppliers 
 y
Vegetable and fruit suppliers 
 y
Household item suppliers 
 y
Third party tenants (within premises) 
 y
Janitors
 y
Security 
Social and Relationship Capital 
'Keells' 'Govidiri' initiative in partnership with SAPP.
KFP and JMSL in partnership with JKF launched 
John Keells 'Praja Shakthi' in Ja-Ela and carried 
out preliminary needs assessments to identify 
community livelihood options to increase the 
yield and quality of SME-related production 
whilst expanding potential markets.

99
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Supply chain and sustainable sourcing
Relevance: Ensure a continuous supply of raw 
materials which reduces risk, enhances brand 
reputation, and benefits local businesses. Building 
ongoing and sustainable relationships in order to 
promote social responsibility and integration across 
the supply chain
Approach
 y
Building and maintaining relationships with 
supply chain partners. 
 y
Development of sustainable agricultural 
practices.
Initiatives
 y
The Farmer Management System (FMS) of JMSL 
supported over 4,000 farmers across the country 
to ensure productivity. 
 y
JMSL continued to provide free technical 
assistance via helplines to over 2,500 farmers.
 y
A dedicated field officer engaged in all field 
visits and provided onsite consultations to 
farmers across all collection centres.
 y
JMSL commenced the field implementation 
of the 'Keells Govidiri' project during the year 
under review. This initiative aims at ensuring 
production consistency and availability of 
selected fresh produce. 
 y
Produce of 24 green houses were GAP (Good 
Agricultural Practices) certified. 
 y
JMSL in partnership with SAPP (Smallholder 
Agribusiness Partnerships Programme) 
supported 245 farms by establishing 
productivity enhancement initiatives.
 y
The 'Keells Podi Business Thena' project 
extended support to small business owners and 
vendors by allocating space to set up stalls at 
car parks at select 'Keells' outlets. 
 y
The introduction of the 'Imperfect Vegetables' 
range available across 63 'Keells' outlets, 
supported farmers by reducing produce 
returns whilst also providing customers a price 
reduction of up to 20 per cent across the range. 
 y
JMSL facilitated the distribution of fertiliser and 
most needed agrochemicals among farmers 
to continue respective farming practices and 
livelihood thereby benefiting over ~300 farmers.
 y
A 36-hour, industry-related skill development 
programme which was organised under JKF's 
'Skill into Progress' (SKIP) during 2020/21 was 
completed during the year under review 
with 12 small to medium enterprise (SME) 
suppliers of 'Keells' being empowered with 
English communication skills. The virtual SKIP 
programme initiated for a new batch of suppliers 
during the reporting year had to be discontinued 
due to challenges arising from the prevailing 
socio-economic conditions in the country. 
Community engagement
Relevance: To promote social responsibility and integration 
within the community
Approach
 y
Building and maintaining relationships within diverse 
communities. 
 y
Development of skills and employability of youth by 
providing job opportunities. 
Initiatives
 y
185 disadvantaged school children were awarded English 
and Information Technology (IT) scholarships under the 
'English for Teens' initiative of JKF's English Language 
Scholarship Programme.
 y
Four students were awarded scholarships under JKF's 
Higher Education Scholarship Programme to pursue higher 
studies at State universities. 
 y
JMSL in collaboration with the JKF commemorated the 
International Day for the Elimination of Violence Against 
Women, by printing a public interest message containing 
helplines on domestic violence on all 'Keells' supermarket 
bills during a two-week period in December 2021.
 y
Under JMSL's 'Say No To Food Waste' food redistribution 
initiative, 108 'Keells' outlets in partnership with selected 
non-profit organisations redistributed consumable fresh 
produce on a monthly basis among deserving communities. 
 y
JMSL in partnership with the Department of Marketing 
Management of the University of Kelaniya, provided insights 
on the retail industry of Sri Lanka. JMSL will collaborate 
as a strategic partner in select degree programmes by 
conducting lectures and knowledge sharing sessions, whilst 
offering internships and job placements.
 y
KN95 facial masks and face shields were donated to five 
Government hospitals in an effort to support the nation's 
frontline workers and medical personnel.
 y
248 students from nine schools in the Gampola, Mawanella 
and Matale areas were provided books and stationery item 
packs for the new academic year.
 JKF in partnership with KFP and JMSL launched John Keells 
'Praja Shakthi' in Ja-Ela and conducted the following activities:
 y
Needs assessments and identification of two livelihood 
initiatives - namely livestock farming and the production 
of spices - with the aim of increasing yield and quality of 
production whilst expanding potential markets.
 y
Conducted an awareness session on Substance Abuse 
Prevention, especially through early childhood education, 
benefiting a total of 48 Government officers.
 y
Under JKF's 'Praja Shakthi' initiative in Ranala, JMSL supported 
'Batawela Ranliya Women's Society of Ranala' in manufacturing 
paper-based products by purchasing Vesak lanterns and 
gifting them to 'Keells' customers at selected outlets in the 
spirit of supporting SME livelihoods affected by the pandemic. 
 y
JKOA collaborated with JKF's 'John Keells Praja Shakthi Digital 
Learning' pilot programme by providing 100 Samsung A8 
tabs at discounted rates to selected disadvantaged children in 
Colombo and Ranala to facilitate online education during the 
pandemic. The tabs with data packages were distributed to 
select students of Colombo and Ranala divisional secretariats.

100 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Industry Group Review
Retail
Product quality and responsibility
Relevance: Financial, regulatory, brand reputation and 
business continuity implications
Approach
 y
Formulation of new products and services.
 y
Ensuring effective and responsible marketing 
communication. 
Initiatives
 y
JMSL obtained SLS 1432 (SMMS) certification for 117 
outlets and SLS 143 (GMP) certification for 118 outlets.
 y
Of the 405 stock keeping units sourced by JMSL for 
private labelling;
 y
57 per cent carried information of the ingredients 
used
 y
1 per cent carried information on raw materials sourced 
 y
47 per cent and 97 per cent carried information 
on safe use, and responsible disposal of products, 
respectively.
 y
JKOA continued to be the authorised distributor of 
mobile devices for Samsung in Sri Lanka, whilst also 
maintaining a product portfolio of other world-renowned 
brands such as Toshiba, Asus, and RISO.
The Retail industry group constantly strives for excellence in product and 
service quality whilst maintaining safety in its processes. 
Intellectual Capital 
"I am the sole proprietor of Sethum products, 
and I started this journey as a courageous mother 
due to financial difficulties, with no academic 
qualifications or computer knowledge. My business 
was at its infancy when I started working with 
'Keells' and I was fortunate to be part of the English proficiency 
programme organised by JKF. Before this programme, I was not 
confident to communicate in English. But this programme helped 
me improve my English. I believe that this will help me to a great 
extent in the future. I would like to thank 'Keells' for going beyond 
business relationships and supporting their suppliers."
Kumari Rajakaruna – 'Keells' SME Beneficiary of Skill into Progress (SKIP)

101
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Leisure
Industry Group Structure 
Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts 
Colombo Hotels
 y
Two hotels offering ~28 per cent of the 5-star 
room capacity of Colombo.
 y
'Cinnamon Grand Colombo' - 501 rooms.
 y
'Cinnamon Lakeside Colombo' - 346 rooms.
 y
'Cinnamon Red Colombo', a lean luxury hotel 
in Colombo - 243 rooms.
 y
26 restaurants across the three properties.
Sri Lankan Resorts 
 y
Resorts spread across prime tourist locations 
in Sri Lanka, leveraging on the natural 
diversity of the country. 
 y
8 resort hotels.
 y
1,022 rooms.
Maldivian Resorts
 y
Resorts located across the Maldives offering 
unique experiences and panoramic views. 
 y
4 resort hotels. 
 y
454 rooms.
Hotel Management 
 y
Cinnamon Hotel Management Limited 
(CHML), the hotel management arm of the 
Leisure industry group.
Destination Management 
 y
Two destination management companies in 
Sri Lanka:
 y
Walkers Tours 
 y
Whittall Boustead Travel
Inputs (Rs.million)
2021/22
2020/21
%
2019/20
Total assets
121,567 
98,324 
24 
98,335 
Total equity
59,539 
52,907 
13 
59,409 
Total debt1
28,634 
20,743 
38 
16,034
Capital employed2
110,782 
89,765 
23 
88,865 
Employees (No.)3
4,195 
3,819 
10 
4,542 
Outputs (Rs.million)
2021/22
2020/21
%
2019/20
Turnover4
18,962 
5,374 
253 
17,754 
EBIT
(46)
(7,336)
99 
(905)
PBT
(1,281)
(8,527)
85 
(1,540)
PAT
(1,302)
(7,598)
83 
(1,548)
EBIT per employee
(0)
(2)
99 
(0)
Carbon footprint (MT)
32,018 
24,360 
31 
31,510 
1. Excludes lease liabilities.
2. For equity accounted investees, capital employed is representative of the Group's equity investment in these 
companies. This is inclusive of lease liabilities.
3. As per the sustainability reporting boundary.
4. Revenue is inclusive of the Group's share of equity accounted investees.
Contribution to 
the John Keells Group
8%
Revenue
(0%)
EBIT
19%
Capital Employed
33%
Carbon Footprint

102 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Industry Group Review
Macroeconomic Update – Sri Lanka 
Timeline: Encouraging Recovery from the Pandemic 
Industry Highlights
 y
As evident by the graph below, although tourist arrivals in CY2021 were impacted 
due to multiple lockdowns in the first half of the financial year, arrivals demonstrated 
a notable recovery in the second half of the year under review aided by rapid 
vaccination roll-outs, both locally and globally, and increased global travel.
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
Arrivals  (’000)
Tourist Arrivals to Sri Lanka
Jan-21
Feb-21
Mar-21
Apr-21
May-21
Jun-21
Jul-21
Aug-21
Sep-21
Oct-21
Nov-21
Dec-21
Jan-22
Feb-22
Mar-22
Apr-22
2
82
3
5
97
107
63
90
4
1
2
2
14
23
44
2021
2022
5
 y
In the month of December 2021, arrivals surpassed the 90,000 mark for the first 
time in 20 months since the onset of the pandemic and 100,000 mark in March 
2022, which is almost 50 per cent of pre pandemic levels. 
 y
Tourist arrivals to Sri Lanka stood at 194,495 for CY2021, a 62 per cent decrease 
against the previous year [CY2020: 507,704 arrivals]. 
 y
Total arrivals during January to April 2022 stood at 348,314 arrivals, a notable 
increase against the 9,629 arrivals recorded in the corresponding period of last 
year. For 2021/22, tourist arrivals stood at 470,200 arrivals, against 10,022 arrivals 
recorded in 2020/21.
 y
Key source markets driving arrivals during CY2021 was India, followed by 
Russia, the United Kingdom, Germany, and Ukraine. 
 y
Arrivals from Russia and Ukraine witnessed a decline to the country, with the 
invasion of Ukraine by Russia on 24 February 2022. 
COVID-19 Developments 
 y
In September 2021, debt moratorium granted 
to the tourism sector was extended for a nine-
month period commencing from October 2021.
 y
The grace period offered on Saubhagya 
COVID-19 Renaissance Facility for businesses by 
the Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL) was extended 
from September 2021 to December 2021.
Awards
Sri Lanka continued to gain traction during the year, 
securing numerous awards and accolades:
 y
Ranked at the top of the world's 'Wellness 
Tourism Destination for 2021' by the Global 
Wellness Institute.
 y
Placed amongst CNN Travel's '20 Best Places to 
Visit in 2022'.
 y
Secured second place in the 'Women Solo Travel 
Index'.
 y
Accoladed as 'One of the Best Countries to 
Travel' at the Conde Nast Traveller magazine 
Readers Choice Awards 2021.
External Environment and Operational Review 
Apr 21
May 21
Jun 21
Jul 21
Aug 21
Oct 21
Sep 21
Nov 21
Dec 21
Jan 22
Feb 22
Mar 22
Mid-May 
Third COVID-19 wave in Sri Lanka 
which resulted in the imposition 
of a ten day island-wide curfew. 
Mid-June
Easing of restrictions resulting in the 
gradual recovery of hotel operations.
Entry requirements for the country, such 
as the removal of on-arrival PCRs, was 
also relaxed for select tourist groups. 
June to Mid-September
Sri Lanka was added to the UK's 
'COVID-19 travel red list' and 
removed in mid-September 2021.
May – November 
Select Group hotels operated as 
intermediary care centres (ICC) whilst 
others operated within the guidelines of 
'Safe & Secure Level 1 Hotels'.
December onwards
Strong vaccinations drives, globally and 
locally, coupled with increased leisure 
travel globally contributed towards a 
recovery of Sri Lankan tourism. 
Mid-August
Fourth COVID-19 wave in Sri Lanka which resulted in 
the imposition of curfew and inter-provincial travel 
bans in the country from 20 August to 1 October.
Early-October
Easing of restrictions within 
Sri Lanka resulting in a 
rebound in domestic travel.
Mid-November 
Sri Lanka commenced administrating the third dose 
of the COVID-19 vaccination programme, as a booster 
shot with almost entirety of the adult population was 
vaccinated with two doses by this time.
April 2022
Further relaxation of 
entry requirements 
to Sri Lanka.
 Refer Outlook section for details of the envisaged 
impact of the Russia-Ukraine crisis - page 136
Leisure

103
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts
During the first half of the year under review, Sri Lanka experienced a rapid outbreak of a third 
and fourth wave of COVID-19 cases, mainly as a result of the highly transmissible Delta variant, 
with the number of daily cases and deaths across the country reaching peak levels. As a result, the 
Government imposed intermittent island-wide quarantine curfews and travel restrictions to contain 
the spread of the virus. The Government rolled-out an aggressive vaccination drive across the country 
where almost the entirety of the population over 30 years of age was fully vaccinated by November 
2021 which resulted in a significant decline in the number of daily cases and mortalities. 
With this successful vaccination drive and easing of restrictions, the Group's Sri Lankan Leisure 
businesses recorded a significant turnaround in performance on account of activity and consumer 
trends being near 'normal' since the onset of the pandemic in early CY2020. This was particularly 
evident from December 2021 onwards, where business momentum gained encouraging traction 
on the back of a notable resumption in tourism. 
During the period of quarantine curfew and inter-provincial travel restrictions, the Sri Lankan hotel 
properties were closed to the public whilst continuing proactive cost management initiatives and 
effective management of working capital requirements.
Key strategies rolled-out include:
 y
Intermediate Care Centres (ICCs) 
 y
'Cinnamon Red Colombo', 'Cinnamon Citadel Kandy' and 'Hikka Tranz by Cinnamon' 
operated as ICCs for the treatment of asymptomatic patients, during the peak of outbreaks 
primarily to aid the short supply of hospital beds at the time, which also assisted to mitigate 
the drop in revenue. 
 y
'Safe & Secure Level 1 Hotels' 
 y
'Cinnamon Bentota Beach' and 'Cinnamon Bey Beruwala' operated as 'Safe & Secure Level 1 
Hotels' and housed tourists arriving through the 'bio-bubble' scheme.
 y
Flavours by 'Cinnamon'
 y
The Colombo Hotels segment continued its online food delivery platform 'Flavours' and 
partnerships with third party delivery platforms, in order to cater to the demand for food 
and beverage offerings.
 y
Emphasis was placed on vaccinating staff engaged in leisure activities, with vaccination rates 
being over 95 per cent within staff members at 'Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts'. 
 Refer Outlook section for the envisaged impact of the ongoing macroeconomic crisis - page 136
Awards 
 y
'Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts' was listed as a partner hotel by CNN. 
 y
'Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts' obtained the United Nations Educational, Scientific and 
Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) 'Sustainable Travel Pledge' certificate, becoming the first 
hotel chain in Sri Lanka to attain this status. The pledge by the UNESCO aims to promote 
sustainable travel, community resilience and heritage conservation globally.
Colombo Hotels 
The Colombo Hotels segment was significantly impacted by the imposition of lockdowns and 
the closure of the airport, resulting in curtailment of activities, limitations on events. However, the 
segment noted an encouraging recovery momentum across the quarters, particularly towards the 
third quarter of 2021/22. The gradual resumption of tourism and business travel towards the latter 
half of the year under review contributed towards the revival of the Colombo Hotels segment 
with an increase in foreign tourists and domestic participation, including expatriates and business 
delegates. 
Colombo 
Hotels
2021/22
2021/22
2020/21
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
Average Room 
Rate (USD)
61
54
71
77
70
64
Occupancy 
(%)
6
20
39
52
29
3
Note: 
• Both Average Room Rates (ARRs) and Occupancy 
excludes 'Cinnamon Red Colombo'.
• Given market circumstances and demand during 
2021/22, the business only operated 242 rooms of 
'Cinnamon Grand Colombo', and the indicators 
reflected above are on a base of 242 operational rooms. 
Occupancy at 'Cinnamon Grand Colombo' 
and 'Cinnamon Lakeside Colombo' were also 
aided through group bookings for sporting 
teams that visited the country under the 
'bio-bubble' scheme. Given the rapid outbreak 
of COVID-19 cases, 'Cinnamon Red Colombo' 
was converted to an ICC for the treatment 
of asymptomatic patients from April to 
November 2021. 
The segment also experienced a strong 
recovery in banquet and restaurant activities 
with the easing of restrictions. The segment 
witnessed a significant pick-up in the number 
of events and banquets, with restaurant 
operations reverting to pre-pandemic levels, 
particularly from December 2021 onwards. 
Piers dining in 'Cinnamon Bentota Beach'. 
FuzeBar at 'Cinnamon Bentota Beach'. 

104 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Industry Group Review
Leisure
Cinnamon Life Colombo
The construction of the state-of-the-art hotel 
'Cinnamon Life Colombo' is progressing well 
where fit outs and interior designing of the 
hotel rooms and common areas are currently 
underway. The hotel, retail and entertainment 
components of the 'Cinnamon Life Integrated 
Resort' is scheduled for commencement of 
operations, in a phased manner, in the first half 
of CY2023. This integrated project is expected 
to transform the landscape of Colombo and 
establish Colombo as a tourism hub given its 
multi-use facilities and iconic design. 
This multifaceted development will consist of 
an 800-room hotel,15 speciality restaurants,14 
meeting facilities, along with many other hotel 
amenities, retail, and entertainment spaces, in 
addition to two residential apartment towers 
and an office tower. 
 Refer the Property industry group review 
for a discussion on the construction 
progress of the 'Cinnamon Life Integrated 
Resort' - page 114
Given the iconic nature of the hotel and retail 
components of the property, and the dynamic 
challenges entailing a project of this size, 
the business continued to recruit employees 
with requisite skills for the operation of 
an integrated resort of this nature whilst 
implementing training and skill development 
platforms. 
Discussions with key tenants of the retail 
mall continued during the year, with various 
alternatives being considered for the retail 
space to ensure unique attractions and 
offerings.
Sri Lankan Resorts 
Whilst the imposition of inter-provincial travel 
restrictions during lockdown periods curtailed 
domestic tourism significantly during mid-
May and mid-August, the hotels witnessed a 
resumption of domestic travel post the easing 
of restrictions in movement. Domestic tourism 
was a key catalyst that resulted in all properties 
in the Sri Lankan Resorts segment recording 
an encouraging increase in month-on-month 
occupancy, particularly in the second half of 
the year under review.
Sri Lankan Resorts
2021/22
2021/22
2020/21
 Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Average Room Rate (USD)
50
38
82
93
78
62
Occupancy (%)
18
18
35
57
32
16
The segment continued to review the trends of both international and domestic travel during 
the year under review, and expanded operations accordingly. 'Cinnamon Bentota Beach' and 
'Cinnamon Bey Beruwala' operated as 'Safe & Secure Level 1 Hotels' under the guidelines and 
protocols stipulated by the Sri Lanka Tourism Development Authority (SLTDA) and accommodated 
tourists arriving through the 'bio-bubble' scheme until May 2021. 'Cinnamon Bey Beruwala' 
also operated under the 'bio-bubble' scheme during the first 15 days of August 2021. As noted 
previously, 'Cinnamon Citadel Kandy' and 'Hikka Tranz by Cinnamon' were operated as ICCs for 
the treatment of asymptomatic patients. 'Cinnamon Citadel Kandy' operated as an ICC from April 
to October 2021 while 'Hikka Tranz by Cinnamon' operated as ICC from May to September 2021. 
In tandem with the resumption of international tourism and evolving regulations, operations 
were realigned, and performance continued to recover to 'normal' levels on the back of 'pent up' 
demand for leisure travel from various markets.
'Hikka Tranz by Cinnamon' re-opened in May 2021 following the completion of structural repairs 
carried out during 2020/21. 
The lean luxury segment of 'Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts', 'Cinnamon Red Colombo' is set to expand 
with the launch of 'Cinnamon Red Kandy', a joint venture with Indra Traders (Private) Limited, 
which is under construction with concrete work currently underway. The Group is envisaged to 
hold a 40 per cent stake of the equity component, whilst the management of hotel will fall under 
the purview of the Hotel Management sector at a total investment cost of ~Rs.6.00 billion. Slated 
for completion in the first half of 2023/24, the hotel will feature 216 rooms and amenities including 
an expansive rooftop bar and a swimming pool amongst others.
Awards 
 y
'Most Valuable Hospitality Brand in Sri Lanka 2021' by Brand Finance Sri Lanka. 
 y
'Sustainability and Social Responsibility' award for the 'Cinnamon Travel Pledge' initiative 
awarded at the Pacific Asia Travel Association (PATA) Gold Awards 2021. 
'Hikka Tranz by Cinnamon' re-opened in May 2021 following the completion of structural repairs.

105
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Macroeconomic Update – The Maldives 
Industry Highlights
 y
Despite pandemic related disruptions during CY2021, the revival of tourism in the 
Maldives was extremely encouraging. 
 y
The public health emergency for the COVID-19 pandemic which was announced on 
12 March 2020 and extended several times, was revoked on 13 March 2022.
 y
Upon lifting the health emergency status in March 2022, the mask requirement in the 
Maldives was limited to islands with an active COVID-19 outbreak; PCR tests are also 
not required for entry.
 y
The Maldives was added to the UK's 'COVID-19 travel red list' on 13 May and removed 
on 22 September 2021. 
 y
The Government of the Maldives also imposed a series of inter-island travel bans 
and travel bans on specific countries such as India, South Africa and other African 
countries.
 y
Despite these challenges, since re-opening its borders in July 2020, the Maldives has 
been successful in managing the spread of COVID-19 through the implementation of 
strict health protocols and rapidly vaccinating staff employed in tourism industry. Such 
initiatives coupled with a recovery in the global travel industry, contributed to an uptick 
in tourism as evident below. 
0
50
100
150
200
Arrivals  (’000)
Tourist Arrivals to the Maldives
2021
2022
92
132
97
149
110
151
145
91
65
56
102
144
115
142
145
164
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
 y
It is noted that despite the drop in its largest source market China on account of various 
challenges in Chinese outbound travel, the Maldives was successful in attracting new 
source markets such as India and Russia which compensated for the loss in Chinese tourists.
 y
The momentum in arrivals continued with over 427,000 tourists visiting the Maldives 
between January and March 2022, despite the ongoing Russia-Ukraine crisis. 
 Refer Outlook section for the envisaged impact of the Russia-Ukraine crisis - page 136
 y
The new International Passenger Terminal Building at the Velana International Airport is 
currently underway. This transformation enables the airport to handle up to 7.5 million 
passengers annually and addresses the space constraints faced by the existing terminal. 
Construction of this project is set to be completed by CY2022.
 y
On 7 April 2022, the Maldivian Ministry of Tourism and the United Nations Development 
Programme (UNDP) signed the 'GOM-UNDP Reimagining Tourism' project which aims to 
transform Maldivian tourism with emphasis on diversification and enhanced community 
engagement.
Maldivian Resorts 
The Maldivian tourism industry continued 
its strong recovery, where the performance 
of Group hotels was higher than anticipated. 
This was also evident from the continuous 
momentum of forward bookings in the 
Maldives, which demonstrated a significant 
'pent up' demand for leisure travel. Occupancies 
and ARRs reached pre-pandemic levels during 
the fourth quarter of the year under review, 
supported by arrivals from both traditional and 
new source markets. 
As evident from the table below, the segment 
recorded an encouraging recovery across the 
quarters, where occupancies were above the 
industry average of 56 per cent for CY2021. 
By the fourth quarter of 2021/22, ARRs of the 
Group properties recovered to pre-pandemic 
levels.
Maldivian 
Resorts
2021/22
2021/22
2020/21
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
Average Room 
Rate (USD)
259 262 344 423 333 349
Occupancy 
(%)
48
76
88
89
75
27
With the onset of restrictions on Chinese 
outbound travel, active measures were 
adopted to attract other source markets such 
as India, Russia, UK, Germany, and South Africa 
to compensate for the shortfall of Chinese 
tourists; especially as China is one of the main 
source markets for the Maldives. The ongoing 
Russia-Ukraine crisis had a minimal impact 
on the performance of the Maldivian Resorts 
segment as the drop in Russian tourists during 
the fourth quarter was offset with an increase 
in British tourists.
 Refer Outlook section for the envisaged 
impact of the Russia-Ukraine crisis - page 136
The segment also enhanced its digitisation 
strategies through the implementation of 
a revenue management tool, which placed 
emphasis on yield maximisation through the 
identification of market trends.

106 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Industry Group Review
Leisure
Awards 
 y
The Maldivian Resorts segment was awarded the 'Corporate Maldives Gold 100 Gala' 
award as one of the leading 100 companies of the Maldives in CY2021.
Platinum beach bungalow at 'Cinnamon Hakuraa Huraa Maldives'.
Destination Management 
Whilst the operating environment of the Destination Management business was significantly 
impacted by the pandemic, the re-opening of Sri Lanka's borders resulted in an encouraging 
revival of interest for inbound travel, particularly in the luxury segment and foreign independent 
travellers (FIT). Walkers Tours continued to establish ties with key Indian inbound travel partners, 
with the aim of strengthening regional networks and widening its presence in the Indian market. 
To this end, Walkers Tours further strengthened its luxury and wellness offerings under its sub 
brands 'Artravele' and 'Ayu' by engaging in sales visits and familiarisation tour programmes 
targeting high-end travel agencies and wellness operators, which augured well in tandem with 
the pickup in tourist arrivals. The sector expanded its digital strategy and footprint by increasing its 
online B2B booking segment and rolling out various digitalisation initiatives aimed at improving 
response times and internal efficiencies. 
'Cinnamon' Events and Promotions
'Cinnamon' events were curtailed to an extent 
in the year under review given the pandemic 
related challenges. However, some key 
initiatives during the year included:
 y
'One Island, A Thousand Treasures', 
destination promotion campaign was 
conducted by 'Cinnamon Hotels & 
Resorts' with the goal of promoting Sri 
Lanka as a 'must visit' travel destination 
showcasing unique places, people, and 
experiences. These stories were promoted 
via digital platforms in order to engage an 
international audience through curated 
and programmatic digital marketing, to 
encourage travellers to visit and experience 
Sri Lanka.
 y
'Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts' along with 
John Keells Holdings PLC established 
the 'EmpowHer Network' to provide an 
enabling environment for women to 
excel not only in their jobs but also allow 
them to pursue their passions outside 
the workspace, thereby establishing 
'Cinnamon' as more than just a workplace. 
 y
The 'Classic Car Run' was organised by 
'Cinnamon Bentota Beach' in partnership 
with the Classic Car Club of Ceylon to 
bring together enthusiasts of the quaint 
artistry of the past, where over 35 classic 
car owners joined the run starting from 
'Cinnamon Lakeside Colombo' parading 
through a pre-planned route to 'Cinnamon 
Bentota Beach'. 
 y
'Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts' in 
collaboration with 'Cinnamon' Nature Trails 
conducted a webinar series encouraging 
participants to explore the natural wonders 
of Sri Lanka. 
The launch of the 'EmpowHer Network'.
The 'EmpowHer Network' 
provides an enabling 
environment for women 
to excel not only in their 
jobs but also allow them to 
pursue their passions outside 
the workspace, thereby 
establishing 'Cinnamon' as 
more than just a workplace.

107
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Income Statement Indicators
Rs.million
2021/22
2020/21
%
Revenue*
Colombo Hotels 
4,052 
1,631 
148
Sri Lankan Resorts 
2,871 
958 
200
Maldivian Resorts
10,398 
2,706 
284
Destination Management
1,610 
67 
2,295
Hotel Management 
31 
12 
152
Total
18,962 
5,374 
253
* Including share of revenue of equity accounted investees.
 y
As outlined in detail in the Operational Review, with the easing of 
COVID-19 restrictions and resumption of tourist arrivals to Sri Lanka, 
the Sri Lankan Leisure businesses recorded a significant turnaround 
in performance. 
 y
The Maldivian Resorts segment continued its strong recovery where 
occupancies and average room rates reached pre-pandemic levels. It 
is pertinent to note that the segment is well positioned to capitalise 
on this opportunity given that the full complement of inventory in all 
four resorts in the Maldives is available, following the refurbishments 
and reconstruction just prior to the pandemic. 
 y
With the easing of restrictions, the Colombo Hotels witnessed 
a significant pick-up in the number of events whilst restaurant 
operations have reverted to pre-pandemic levels.
 y
The notable increase in revenue of the Destination Management 
segment was driven by the luxury segment and the aforementioned 
resumption in tourist arrivals to the country.
 y
The Hotel Management segment recorded an increase in revenue 
as a result of higher management fees and marketing fees given the 
improvement in performance across the hotels, as outlined above.
Rs.million
2021/22
2020/21
%
EBITDA*
Colombo Hotels 
60 
(1,370)
104
Sri Lankan Resorts 
(206)
(1,347)
85
Maldivian Resorts
3,617 
(227)
1,692
Destination Management
30 
(279)
111
Hotel Management 
389 
(349)
212
Total
3,890 
(3,572)
209
Financial and Manufactured Capital
Capital Management Review
The section that ensues discusses the performance of the industry group during the year under review, under the key forms of Capital applicable for 
the industry group.
Rs.million
2021/22
2020/21
%
PBT* 
Colombo Hotels 
(536)
(1,943)
72
Sri Lankan Resorts 
(1,448)
(2,421)
40
Maldivian Resorts
233 
(3,378)
107
Destination Management
186 
(312)
160
Hotel Management 
284 
(473)
160
Total 
(1,281)
(8,527)
85
* Share of results of equity accounted investees are shown net of all taxes.
 y
The primary drivers for the continued recovery in profitability were 
the aforementioned factors impacting revenue.
 y
It should be noted that all segments across the industry group 
recorded a positive EBITDA and PBT in the fourth quarter of the year 
under review. 
 y
Various cost saving mechanisms were implemented focusing on the 
liquidity position of all segments within the industry group. 
 y
The Maldivian Resorts segment recorded an increase in the lease 
amortisation charge for the year on account of the translation impact 
given its US Dollar denomination.
 y
The recurring EBITDA of the industry group, excluding fair value 
gains/losses on investment property, amounted to Rs.3.78 billion, a 
205 per cent increase against the previous year [2020/21: negative 
Rs.3.59 billion]. 
 y
Interest expenses recorded an increase during the year under review 
due to increased borrowings across the industry group. 
Balance Sheet Indicators
Rs.million
2021/22
2020/21
%
Assets
Colombo Hotels 
36,046 
34,754 
4
Sri Lankan Resorts 
20,280 
18,809 
8
Maldivian Resorts
61,355 
41,888 
46
Destination Management
2,014 
1,223 
65
Hotel Management 
1,873 
1,650 
14
Total
121,568 
98,324 
24
Note: The above does not include the asset base of 'Cinnamon Life Colombo' nor the 
retail space at the 'Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort'.
 y
The industry group continued to curtail its investments in capital 
expenditure, to the extent possible, due to the COVID-19 pandemic 
and the volatile macroeconomic environment. 
 y
'Hikka Tranz by Cinnamon' recorded an increase in assets due to the 
capitalisation of refurbishment costs which was completed during 
the year. 
 y
Trade and other receivables increased across the industry group 
owing to the resumption in operational activities.
* Note that EBITDA includes interest income but excludes all impacts from foreign 
currency exchange gains and losses, to demonstrate the underlying cash operational 
performance of businesses.
Share of results of equity accounted investees are shown net of all taxes.

108 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
The Leisure industry group operates in accordance with the Group's 
Environmental policies and the 'Cinnamon' sustainability strategy to 
ensure operations are conducted in a responsible manner with minimal 
impact to the environment whilst adhering to international standards 
and best practice. 
Natural Capital
Industry Group Review
Leisure
2025 Goals Status 
The Leisure industry group has set sustainability goals to be 
achieved by 2024/25. The goal and reduction in usage against the 
2018/19 baseline is depicted below to consolidate and maintain its 
sustainability performance. 
Note: In arriving at the status for the year for each of the indicators, the absolute 
variation against the base year has been calibrated to reflect the level of activity 
in the baseline year, for a like with like comparison. The status disclosed below is 
reported independently by each year against the goal of the baseline year.
Goal
-4%
Note: Due to the intermittent lockdowns and travel restrictions on account 
of the COVID-19 pandemic, the number of guest nights reduced at a higher 
proportionate than the reduction in energy and water usage, thereby distorting 
the performance against the set goals. The performance will be monitored 
continuously. 
Goal
- 1%
Goal
-50% single 
use plastic
Status
55%
(not achieved)
Status
33%
(not achieved)
Status
-6% single 
use plastic
Energy
Water
Plastic
Water and effluent management
Relevance: Regulatory and brand reputation implications 
Approach
 y
Regular monitoring and responsible discharge of 
effluents.
 y
Adhering to water reduction goals.
Initiatives
 y
Continued to maintain onsite effluent treatment 
plants at hotels that are unable to discharge effluent 
into common municipal sewerage lines.
 y
~86,000 litres of water was saved annually 
at 'Habarana Village by Cinnamon' through 
improvements in water fixtures.
 y
Continued the reuse of treated water for gardening 
and farming at select hotel properties.
 y
Ensured all effluents met the requisite water quality 
standards prior to discharge. 
 y
'Cinnamon Bentota Beach' and 'Cinnamon Lakeside 
Colombo' continued to maintain rainwater 
harvesting systems.
 y
Nuwara Eliya Holiday Resorts (Private) Limited disposed its land 
during the year under review for a consideration of Rs.362 million.
 y
The increase in assets in the Maldivian Resorts segment stems from 
the increase in leasehold property due to the translation impact 
given its US Dollar denomination.
 y
The depreciation of the local currency resulted in the Destination 
Management segment recording an exchange gain on US Dollar 
denominated debtors and foreign currency cash balances.
Rs.million
2021/22
2020/21
%
Debt*
Colombo Hotels 
1,638 
1,018 
61
Sri Lankan Resorts 
6,201 
4,491 
38
Maldivian Resorts
19,257 
13,741 
40
Destination Management
395 
353 
12
Hotel Management 
1,143 
1,139 
0
Total
28,634 
20,743 
38
*Excludes lease liabilities.
 y
The industry group obtained term loans and overdraft facilities in 
order to sustain working capital requirements and to lesser extent, 
fund maintenance related capital expenditure which contributed to 
the increase in debt. Debt facilities for working capital purposes were 
primarily at the Colombo Hotels segment and at 'Cinnamon Bentota 
Beach'.
 y
Certain hotels and resorts obtained loan moratorium extensions for 
the Saubhagya COVID-19 renaissance loan whilst others commenced 
loan repayments during the year under review. 
 y
The increase in debt in the Maldivian Resorts segment stems from 
the increase in lease liabilities due to the translation impact given 
its US Dollar denomination, as there were no new leases obtained 
during the year under review. 
 y
Lease liabilities as at 31 March 2022 stood at Rs.22.61 billion [2020/21: 
Rs.16.12 billion]. Total debt including leases stood at Rs.51.24 billion as 
at 31 March 2022 [2020/21: Rs.36.86 billion].
'Habarana Village by Cinnamon'.

109
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Energy and emissions management
Relevance: Financial implications, stakeholder 
expectations of sustainable tourism practices, regulatory 
requirements, brand image, and reputation
Approach
 y
Implementing and improving energy efficiency. 
 y
Use of renewable energy sources.
 y
Alignment with international best practice and 
standards.
 y
Adhering to energy reduction goals.
Initiatives
 y
Ongoing replacement of traditional air conditioner 
units with inverter type units at hotels, which resulted 
in ~20,500 kWh of energy savings. 
 y
Improved the Variable Frequency Drive (VFD) speed 
in the main kitchen at 'Cinnamon Grand Colombo' 
contributing~16,400 kWh of energy savings. 
 y
Optimised the operating hours across the Building 
Management System (BMS) at 'Cinnamon Lakeside 
Colombo' resulting in energy savings of 197,184 kWh.
 y
Optimised chiller set-points at 'Cinnamon Lakeside 
Colombo' resulting in 108,000 kWh of energy savings.
 y
~1,083,292 kWh of renewable energy utilised through 
the generation of solar power by the industry group. 
 y
Walkers Tours Limited (WTL):
 y
Continued to be certified as a carbon neutral fleet 
by Carbon Neutral UK.
 y
Invested in a local renewable energy project to 
offset its carbon footprint by the equivalent 2,000 
tons of carbon. 
 y
71 per cent of the vehicle fleet were hybrid 
vehicles.
 y
Complied with all tolerance levels stipulated under 
the environmental protection license (EPL). 
 y
Maintained the ISO 14001:2015 Environmental 
Management System certification at all hotels and WTL. 
Waste management
Relevance: Regulatory and brand reputation implications 
Approach
 y
Compliance with all regulatory requirements for 
responsible waste disposal.
 y
Adhering to plastic waste reduction goals.
Initiatives
 y
Continued the generation of biogas using food waste 
at 'Cinnamon Wild Yala', 'Cinnamon Citadel Kandy' 
and 'Habarana Village by Cinnamon'.
 y
WTL in collaboration with 'Plasticcycle', placed plastic 
collection bins at Southern Expressway exit points 
collecting ~1,000kg of plastic waste for recycling. 
 y
500 reusable water bottles were provided to clients 
of WTL. 
 y
'Cinnamon Lakeside Colombo' continued its compost 
initiative where 4,900 kg of compost was produced 
using food waste. The compost was used to grow 
organic produce for use in meals. 
 y
Hotels replaced plastic cutlery and stirrers, and plastic 
bottles with wooden cutlery and stirrers, water 
dispensers and glass bottles, respectively.
 y
Fused Light-Emitting Diode (LED) bulbs at 'Cinnamon 
Citadel Kandy' were repaired which resulted in a 69 
per cent reduction of e-waste. 
Biodiversity conservation and promotion
Relevance: Regulatory and brand reputation implications 
and maintaining the value proposition of the destination 
Approach
 y
Conservation of biodiversity and awareness creation. 
Initiatives
 'Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts' in partnership with 
John Keells Foundation (JKF), Ruk Rakaganno (The 
Tree Society of Sri Lanka) and the Forest Department 
of Sri Lanka launched the 'Cinnamon Rainforest 
Restoration Project' which undertook the restoration 
of a degraded 59 Acre plot in Suduwelipotha, a land 
in proximity to the Sinharaja Forest Reserve, over 
an initial period of three years. Ground clearance, 
preparation and planting activities were initiated 
during the year.
 y
Volunteers from WTL participated in the 'Nurdle 
Free Lanka Volunteer Campaign' contributing 261 
volunteer hours collecting over 1,122 kg of nurdles. 
The campaign focused on removing plastic pellets.
 y
'Cinnamon Grand Colombo' conducted video 
awareness campaigns in relation to the international 
biodiversity day and ocean day.
Site launch at the 'Cinnamon Rainforest Restoration' Project.

110 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Industry Group Review
Leisure
Proximity to biodiversity and its features – Sri Lankan Resorts
Proximity to biodiversity and its features – Maldivian Resorts
kan Re
Reso
sorts
Cinnamon Citadel Kandy 
 y Mahaweli river and freshwater ecosystems, adjacent to 
property
 y Extent of Site (km2) - 0.0234
 y *IUCN Category 4 - Habitat/ Species Management Area
Cinnamon Bey Beruwala
 y Marine ecosystem, adjacent to property
 y Extent of Site (km2) - 0.045
 y *IUCN Category 2 - National Park
Cinnamon Bentota Beach
 y Marine ecosystem, adjacent to property
 y Extent of Site (km2) - 0.0446
 y * IUCN Category 2 - National Park
Hikka Tranz by Cinnamon
 y Marine ecosystem, adjacent to property
 y Subsurface Land at Site (km2) - 3,600
 y Extent of Site (km2) - 0.0176
 y *IUCN Category 2 - National Park
Note:  All properties have obtained EPLs. 
 
Unless explicitly specified, subsurface land at site (km2) - Nil.
 
*Protected through the Flora and Fauna Protection Ordinance 1937.
Trinco Blu by Cinnamon
 y Marine ecosystem, adjacent to property
 y Extent of Site (km2) - 0.1143
 y * IUCN Category 2 - National Park
Habarana Village by Cinnamon
 y Minneriya tank sanctuary, 15 km away from property
 y Extent of Site (km2) - 0.0378
 y *IUCN Category 2 - National Park
Cinnamon Lodge Habarana
 y Minneriya tank sanctuary, 15 km away from property
 y Extent of Site (km2) - 0.1031
 y *IUCN Category 2 - National Park
Cinnamon Wild Yala 
 y Yala national park, adjacent to property
 y Extent of Site (km2) - 0.0405
 y *IUCN Category 2 - National Park
Cinnamon Dhonveli 
Maldives 
 y Marine ecosystem, 
adjacent to 
property
 y Extent of Site (km2) 
– 0.1496
Cinnamon Velifushi 
Maldives
 y Marine ecosystem, 
adjacent to 
property
 y Extent of Site (km2) 
– 0.05351 
Cinnamon Hakuraa 
Huraa Maldives
 y Marine ecosystem, 
adjacent to 
property
 y Extent of Site (km2) 
– 0.0543
Ellaidhoo Maldives by 
Cinnamon
 y Marine ecosystem, 
adjacent to 
property
 y Extent of Site (km2) 
– 0.0556
Velana 
International 
Airport
Note: Subsurface land at site (km2) -Nil.
 
Protected through The Environmental Protection and Preservation Act.
Indicators
Carbon footprint scope 1 and 2 per operational intensity factor
2021/22
2020/21
Sri Lankan Resorts CO2 kg per guest night
39.71
66.89
Maldivian Resorts CO2 kg per guest night
39.26
97.21
Colombo Hotels CO2 kg per guest night
86.12
428.40
Destination Management CO2 kg per client 
serviced
4.25
39.91
Water withdrawal per operational intensity factor
2021/22
2020/21
Sri Lankan Resorts water withdrawn - litres 
per guest night
1,403
2,264
Maldivian Resorts water withdrawn - litres 
per guest night
1,184
2,679
Colombo Hotels water withdrawn - litres 
per guest night
1,761
8,069
Waste generated per operational intensity factor
2021/22
2020/21
Sri Lankan Resorts waste generated – kg per 
guest night
2.55
3.13
Maldivian Resorts waste generated – kg per 
guest night
4.94
8.52
Colombo Hotels waste generated – kg per 
guest night
3.76
18.09
Note: The per guest night reduction in indicators have been driven by higher levels of 
operational activity during the reporting year. 
Volunteers from WTL participated in the 'Nurdle 
Free Lanka Volunteer Campaign' which focused 
on removing plastic pellets.

111
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Indicators
Carbon Footprint (MT)
2020/21
32%
2021/22
32,108
24,360
Water Withdrawn (m3)
2020/21
43%
2021/22
890,308
624,528
Waste Disposed (kg ‘000)
2020/21
2021/22
2,393
1,339
79%
12,746 
Colombo Hotels 
1,525 
Colombo Hotels 
149 
Hotel Management 
177
Hotel Management 
65 
Destination 
Management 
151 
Destination 
Management 
9,409 
Sri Lankan Resorts 
1,816 
Sri Lankan Resorts 
9,798 
Maldivian Resorts 
703 
Maldivian Resorts 
Carbon 
Footprint (MT) 
Number of 
Employees 
As a service-based industry group, the effective management of Human 
Capital is of paramount importance to maintain service standards of 
the 'Cinnamon' brand. The industry group continues to invest in the 
workforce to build a professionally trained and competent staff cadre to 
deliver an unparalleled customer experience. 
The Leisure industry group facilitates its employees with a safe working 
environment through education, awareness, and training on safety 
practices in the workplace. 
Human Capital 
Training and talent retention 
Relevance: Retaining talent and upgrading skills of 
existing staff towards delivering superior customer 
service and quality
Approach
 y
Continuous training and development opportunities.
Initiatives
 y
Provided 41 hours of training per employee. 
 y
All properties continued to offer classroom and  
on-the-job training to all employees to enhance skills, 
productivity, and service quality.
 y
'Cinnamon Lakeside Colombo' created a NAITA 
(National Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority) 
training centre which provided students opportunities 
to gain exposure on hotel operational aspects. 
 y
All properties encouraged female participation in the 
workforce, working towards committed diversity goals. 
 y
Training programmes were conducted at hotels with 
the aim of accelerating career progression:
 y
Graduate Management Acceleration Programme 
(GMAP) for heads of departments to progress 
towards senior managerial positions. 
 y
Supervisory Talent Enhancement Programme 
(STEP) for associates to progress towards 
supervisory roles.
 y
Talent Acceleration Programme (TAP) for 
supervisory level staff to progress towards 
executive positions.
 y
Management Programme (MAP) for executive staff 
to progress towards head of department levels.
Solar panels at 'Ellaidhoo Maldives by Cinnamon'.

112 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Industry Group Review
Leisure
Health and safety
Relevance: Ensuring safe working conditions are 
provided for all employees to minimise occupational 
health and safety incidents
Approach
 y
Maintaining health and safety related processes and 
practices. 
 y
Training and creating awareness.
Initiatives
 y
Food handlers at all hotels were provided 
comprehensive training on food safety and hygiene 
to ensure quality standards are maintained. 
 y
Conducted regular first aid, fire awareness and 
emergency evacuation training at all hotels. 
 y
ISO 45001:2018 occupational health and safety 
standards certification was maintained by hotels. 
 y
ISO 22000:2018 certification on food safety was 
maintained by hotels. 
 y
'Safe & Secure' certificate of compliance issued by the 
Sri Lanka Tourism Development Authority (SLTDA) was 
obtained by all Sri Lankan hotels and resorts and WTL. 
 y
Continued workplace safety protocols such as, guest 
health declarations, temperature checks, and regular 
sanitisation of high-risk areas. 
 y
Training on COVID-19 safety measures was 
conducted for 250 chauffeur guides by WTL. 
 y
WTL conducted a series of comprehensive first aid 
training for jeep suppliers. 
 y
Employees across all hotels completed the e-module 
on gender based violence which was facilitated 
under JKF's Project 'WAVE' (Working Against Violence 
through Education).
Indicators
Training Per Employee (Hours)
2020/21
24%
2021/22
41
33
Injuries (Number)
2020/21
110%
2021/22
21
10
Training (Hours)
2020/21
39%
2021/22
124,376
172,775
The industry group strives to ensure sustainable value creation by 
empowering the community and recognising the importance of 
building stakeholder relationships by engaging with its operational 
communities and supply chain partners and working towards the 
development of the local economy.
The significant suppliers within the industry group are:
Significant Suppliers - Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts 
 y
Amenities 
 y
Food and beverage suppliers 
 y
Travel agents and travel websites 
 y
Casual workers
Significant Suppliers - Destination Management 
 y
Hotels and other accommodation providers 
 y
Contracted retail stores 
 y
Freelance national guides 
 y
Jeep and boat suppliers 
 y
Foreign travel agents and tour operators 
 y
Outsourced fleet
Social and Relationship Capital 
Supply chain and sustainable sourcing
Relevance: Assessing and educating significant suppliers 
to ensure mitigation of negative impacts with respect to 
environment, labour, and human rights aspects
Approach
 y
Building and maintaining relationships with supply 
chain partners. 
 y
Engaging with significant supply chain partners 
to encourage environmental friendly and socially 
responsible activities. 
Initiatives
 y
Supporting local economies through sourcing local 
produce and other outsourced services. 
 y
Audits were conducted on key suppliers of 
'Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts' and the central 
purchasing office. 
 y
44 suppliers participated in the awareness sessions 
which were carried out covering topics such as 
quality, environmental practices and health and 
safety. 
Food handlers at all hotels were provided 
comprehensive training on food safety and 
hygiene to ensure quality standards are 
maintained.

113
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Community development
Relevance: Engagements with the community to reduce inequality, enhance skills and build 
mutually beneficial relationships
Approach
 y
Building and maintaining relationships with diverse communities. 
 y
Developing skills and employability of youth by providing job opportunities.
Initiatives
 JKF in partnership with the International Finance Corporation (IFC) and 'Cinnamon Life Colombo' 
formalised plans for a Street Market in Colombo 2 which is aimed at addressing:
 y
Absence of an existing platform for the provision of food by street vendors conforming to 
public health and hygiene standards.
 y
Increase the participation of women in the hospitality and tourism sectors.
 y
Under JKF's business-centric community empowerment initiative John Keells 'Praja Shakthi' - 
Hikkaduwa, 'Hikka Tranz by Cinnamon' partnered with JKF on the following:
 y
Continuing to support 13 women engaged in the batik craft to enhance their skills and 
market access. 
 y
Commenced a series of design thinking workshops facilitated by industry trainers together 
with a tour of the hotel.
 y
Assisted participants in establishing sustainable market linkages with 'Artravele' - the luxury 
brand of WTL.
 'Cinnamon Grand Colombo' was the venue partner for JKF in the launch of the Colombo phase of 
the 'John Keells Praja Shakthi Digital Learning Initiative' in collaboration with Deutsche Bank, JKOA, 
Dialog Axiata PLC under which tabs and data packages were presented to 50 disadvantaged school 
children, enabling access to online learning. 
 y
JKF in collaboration with CHML and the Colombo Municipal Council (CMC) continued its 
initiative to improve the livelihoods of street vendors operating in the vicinity of Colombo 2 
through upskilling and complying with the regulatory framework. Based on a sustainability 
assessment conducted on street vendors operative at Galle Face in collaboration with the CMC, 
suitable training will be provided to street vendors by a team including the chefs at 'Cinnamon 
Hotels & Resorts'. The proposed training content was designed and shared with the CMC during 
the year towards finalising content and implementing training at a more conducive time.
 y
JKF in partnership with 'Cinnamon Lodge Habarana' and WTL carried out entry level needs 
assessment in advance of the launch of John Keells 'Praja Shakthi' in Habarana. 
 y
173 English and IT scholarships were awarded to disadvantaged school children in Habarana, 
Kandy, Trincomalee, Hikkaduwa, Yala and Beruwala under the 'English for Teens' initiative of JKF's 
English Language Scholarship Programme.
 y
A total of ten higher education scholarships were offered to students from Hikkaduwa. 
 y
WTL and Whittall Boustead continued to collaborate with JKF in its supply chain management 
initiative 'Skill into Progress' (SKIP) which is aimed at upskilling identified supplier groups 
in a pandemic challenged context. A 36-hour customised English programme designed in 
collaboration with the Destination Management sector was completed by 40 chauffeur guides 
demonstrating commendable skills and confidence levels.
 y
'Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts' carried out the following community service programmes:
 y
'Cinnamon Red Colombo' donated essential dry rations and food items to the Gamini Matha 
Elders' home and linens to the National Cancer Institute.
 y
'Cinnamon Lodge Habarana' and 'Habarana Village by Cinnamon' renovated the Horiwila 
ayurvedic medical hospital.
 y
'Cinnamon Citadel Kandy' assisted in the renovation of an adjoining temple and the 
construction of a staff meal room at the Kandy Municipal Council. 
 y
Under JKF's Project WAVE (Working Against Violence through Education), a training refresher was 
conducted for 16 pre-trained master trainers from 'Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts' towards increasing 
motivation and creating awareness on child protection in Sri Lanka.

114 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Industry Group Review
Property
Industry Group Structure 
Property Development 
 y
Development and sale of residential 
and commercial properties under three 
segments; 'Luxe Spaces', 'Metropolitan 
Spaces' and 'Suburban Spaces'.
 y
Ongoing projects: 'Cinnamon Life Integrated 
Resort' development and 'Tri-Zen', a 
development based on smart living in the 
heart of the city.
 y
Previous projects: 'OnThree20', '7th Sense on 
Gregory's Road', 'Monarch', and 'Emperor'.
 y
Development of holiday homes at 'Victoria 
Golf and Country Resort' in Rajawella, Kandy.
Real Estate 
 y
Rental of commercial office space.
 y
Management of the Group's real estate 
within the city.
 y
Ownership and operation of the 'Crescat 
Boulevard' mall and 'K-Zone' malls in 
Moratuwa and Ja-Ela.
 y
Operation of the 18-hole champion golf 
course and management of the land bank in 
Rajawella, Kandy.
Inputs (Rs.million)
2021/22
2020/21
%
2019/20
Total assets
276,754 
196,882 
41 
162,928 
Total equity
166,895 
108,406 
54 
98,118 
Total debt1
102,260 
59,492 
72 
41,954 
Capital employed2
269,155 
167,898 
60 
140,073 
Employees (No.)3
260 
272 
(4)
278 
Outputs (Rs.million)
2021/22
2020/21
%
2019/20
Turnover4
41,476 
1,910 
2,072 
1,395 
EBIT
2,879 
(92)
3,214 
565 
PBT
(847)
(136)
(521)
462 
PAT
(986)
(276)
(257)
326 
EBIT per employee
11 
(0)
3,358 
2 
Carbon footprint (MT)
733 
770 
(5)
814 
1. Excludes lease liabilities.
2. For equity accounted investees, capital employed is representative of the Group's equity investment in these 
companies. This is inclusive of lease liabilities.
3. As per the sustainability reporting boundary.
4. Revenue is inclusive of the Group's share of equity accounted investees.
Contribution to 
the John Keells Group
17%
Revenue
14%
EBIT
45%
Capital Employed
1%
Carbon Footprint

115
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Macroeconomic Update 
 y
The construction sector accounted for 6.1 per cent of Sri Lanka's GDP in CY2021 [CY2020: 
6.2 per cent]. 
 y
The Land Valuation Indicator for Colombo District, compiled by the Central Bank of Sri 
Lanka (CBSL), reached 155.1 in the first half of CY2021, an increase of 9.5 per cent against 
the comparative period [CY2020 1H:141.6, CY2020 2H:145.2]. The residential, commercial, 
and industrial sub-indices contributed to this increase.
 y
In April 2022, the Government introduced a scheme to issue five to ten year long-term 
residence visas to foreigners that invest a minimum of USD 75,000 in condominium 
properties. 
Connectivity 
 y
The New Kelani Bridge (NKB) named 'Golden Gate Kalyani' was declared open in 
November 2021, linking the city of Colombo with the Bandaranaike International Airport 
and the Port of Colombo. 
 y
Central Expressway
 y
The second phase of the Central Expressway from Mirigama to Kurunegala was 
declared open in January 2022. 
 y
The Central Expressway is expected to be completed by CY2024.
 y
Ruwanpura Expressway
 y
Surveying activities on the stretch from Ingiriya to Pelmadulla in the Ruwanpura 
Expressway commenced during the year. 
 y
The first stretch from Kahathuduwa to Ingirya of the Ruwanpura Expressway is 
expected to be completed by CY2023. 
 y
Construction of the Port Access Elevated Highway commenced during the year. The 
proposed highway entails five on and off-ramp facilities and provides a direct link to the 
city of Colombo and the Port of Colombo from the Colombo-Katunayake Expressway via 
the NKB, and also extends to the expressway network.
 y
Preliminary work relating to the construction of the four-lane elevated highway from the 
NKB to Athurugiriya via Rajagiriya continued during the year. The project will be fully foreign 
funded on a design build finance operate maintain and transfer (DBFOMT) basis. 
 y
In July 2021, Port City Colombo gained legal status to operate and function as a Special 
Economic Zone (SEZ). 
External Environment and Operational Review 
Operational Performance 
The pandemic related disruptions continued to present a series of challenges to the Property 
industry group, including impacts to construction activities, accessibility to labour and availability 
of construction materials, particularly during lockdown periods. However, given that the 
businesses were better equipped in managing such effects as previous restrictions and lockdowns 
had imparted learnings and experience in better navigating the effects of the pandemic, along 
with the rapid vaccination drive, the businesses were able to minimise impact, in comparison to 
2020/21. 
Constraints in labour and rising construction costs continued to be a challenge for the industry. 
In addition, notable challenges which materialised towards the tail end of the year under review, 
such as steep rises in material costs and the fuel and electricity crisis exerted pressure on business 
performance.
The industry witnessed notable cost pressures 
in lieu of:
 y
Global supply chain constraints due to the 
pandemic, such as, challenges in booking 
containers and longer delivery times due 
to multiple transits. 
 y
The shortage of foreign exchange in Sri 
Lanka resulted in substantial delays and 
constraints in opening letters of credit (LCs) 
for building materials and components. 
 y
Import restrictions causing difficulties in 
sourcing materials.
 y
Layered tax and tariff systems for 
construction material.
 y
Depreciation of the domestic currency and 
inflationary pressures. 
Despite the challenges, demand towards real 
estate assets increased significantly during 
the year under review aided by the prevailing 
low interest rate regime, where consumers 
were able to access to long-term funding at 
attractive rates which also induced a shift in 
funds from other asset classes to real estate 
assets. This was particularly evident in the 
metropolitan segment and within the suburbs 
of Colombo, given its value proposition and 
connectivity. Demand was further augmented 
towards the latter end of the year under 
review, given that real estate assets were 
exploited as a hedge against inflation.
The commercial real estate market also 
witnessed an improvement during the year. 
Occupancies at A-Grade commercial spaces 
remained encouraging despite 'work from 
home' arrangements. Whilst mall operations 
were affected by lockdowns, the easing of 
restrictions and increase in tourist arrivals 
contributed to a gradual improvement. 
Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort
The year under review marks the 
commencement of revenue and profit 
recognition from the completion and handover 
of the residential apartments and office towers 
of the 'Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort' 
project, a significant milestone considering 
the long gestation period of the project. Whilst 
COVID-19 restrictions imposed during mid-May 
and mid-August impacted the momentum 
of construction at 'Cinnamon Life Integrated 
Resort', particularly the mobilisation of labour, 
the available resources and efforts were 
continually re-planned and re-organised to 
ensure the completion of the residential and the 
office towers, for handover as planned.

116 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Industry Group Review
Property
With the handover of the residential towers and the rest of the complex nearing completion, there 
was an upsurge in sales interest, with eight units sold in the fourth quarter of the year. 
'The Suites at 
Cinnamon Life 
Integrated Resort'
'The Residence 
at Cinnamon Life 
Integrated Resort'
'The Offices at Cinnamon 
Life Integrated Resort'
Structure 
39-storey tower 
features a total of 196 
apartment units.
45-storey tower 
features a total of 231 
apartments units.
30-storey tower features 
four floors sold outright, 
six floors reserved for car 
park and the remaining 20 
floors allocated for rent. 
Number of units 
sold as at 31 
March 2022
115 units. (59 per cent 
of total units)
152 units. (66 per cent 
of total units)
Four floors. (100 per cent 
of outright floors sold)
Revenue and 
profit recognition 
Since the first quarter 
of 2021/22. 
Since the fourth 
quarter of 2021/22.
During the third quarter of 
2021/22.
'The Offices at Cinnamon Life' entered into a lease agreement in August 2021 with a leading global 
technology company, HCL Technologies (HCL), to occupy ten floors of the Grade-A office building, with 
an option to occupy an additional ten floors of the building within a pre-agreed time. In December 2021, 
HCL occupied five floors in December 2021 which triggered the commencement of the recognition of 
the recurring revenue from the office space. A further five floors were occupied in May 2022, bringing the 
total occupancy to ten floors. Given the prevailing macroeconomic uncertainty, HCL has informed that 
the option of taking the additional ten floors will not be exercised, at this juncture of time. Discussions 
with prospective tenants for the office space will take place for the remainder of the ten floors. 
Discussions with key tenants of the retail mall continued during the year, with various options being 
considered for the retail space to ensure unique attractions and offerings.
The momentum of construction at 'Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort' is progressing well, where the 
hotel, retail and entertainment components are in the final stages of construction. The fit outs and 
interior designing of the hotel rooms and common areas are currently underway. Operations of the 
hotel, branded 'Cinnamon Life Colombo', retail and entertainment components are scheduled to 
commence, in a phased manner, in the first half of the CY2023, which will result in the generation of 
significant recurring cash flows for the Group once operations ramp up. 
 Refer the Leisure industry group for a discussion on the hotel and retail components - page 101
Handed over 
during the fourth 
quarter of 2021/22.
Handed over 
during the 
first quarter of 
2021/22.
Handed over 
during the 
third quarter of 
2021/22.
 Operations - first 
half of CY2023 in a 
phased manner.
'The Residence 
at Cinnamon Life 
Integrated Resort'
'The Offices at 
Cinnamon Life 
Integrated Resort'
Hotel
Car Park
Entertainment 
and Retail
'The Suites 
at Cinnamon 
Life Integrated 
Resort'
The USD 395 million syndicated loan facility 
at 'Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort', which 
was due for repayment by July 2022, was 
successfully refinanced in December 2021 
through a USD 225 million long-term loan 
facility and a six-month bridging facility of 
USD 100 million. The USD 225 million facility 
was concluded at a rate similar to the previous 
facility taking into account step-down pricing 
mechanisms based on pre-agreed triggers. The 
facility is a five-year loan with a two-year grace 
period and back-ended capital payments. The 
USD 100 million bridging facility was structured 
in order to align with the maturity date of July 
2022 under of the original facility.
Aerial view of the 'Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort'.
Common areas at 'The Suites at Cinnamon Life 
Integrated Resort'.
Interior areas at 'The Residence at Cinnamon Life 
Integrated Resort'.
With the handover of the 
residential towers and the 
rest of the complex nearing 
completion, there was an 
upsurge in sales interest, with 
eight units sold in the fourth 
quarter of the year.

117
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Tri-Zen 
Positioned within the 'Metropolitan Spaces' 
segment of the industry group, 'Tri-Zen', an 
891-unit condominium located at the heart 
of the city focuses on affordable, smart, 
and efficient living solutions. Although the 
imposition of quarantine curfew presented 
challenges in sourcing labour and labour 
mobilisation during periods of movement 
restrictions, the sales momentum and interest 
towards 'Tri-Zen' continued to strengthen with 
pre-sales substantially increasing during the 
year, particularly in the fourth quarter which 
had record sales. This was particularly in lieu 
of real estate assets being considered the 
preferred investment choice on account of the 
low interest rate regime that prevailed during 
the year. The Rupee pricing model which 
mitigates the risk of fluctuating exchange rates 
for buyers, continued to augur well for sales. 
Construction at the 'Tri-Zen' site continued to 
progress well during the year, achieving the 
milestone of completing structural work of all 
three towers with a 'topping-off' ceremony 
was held in January 2022. The mechanical, 
electrical, plumbing work and fit outs are 
currently underway, with the overall project 
scheduled for completion in mid-2023.
Cumulative Sales
659 units
2020/21: 342 units
Town houses and villa developments at RHL.
Mall Operations
In November 2021, the newly revamped 
'Crescat Boulevard' was launched offering a 
revitalised, upmarket shopping and dining 
experience to consumers. Since its re-
launch, the business was able to secure lease 
tenants at an encouraging pace. Accordingly, 
occupancy as at the fourth quarter of 2021/22 
was at ~70 per cent. 
Rajawella Holdings Limited (RHL)
The Group's initial real estate products under RHL, which includes scenic land parcels, town houses 
and villa developments, are branded under three segments i.e., 'Peacock Valley', 'Sunrise Ridge' 
and 'Mara Ridge' based within the 'Victoria Golf and Country Resort' in Digana. Interest towards 
RHL's real estate products were encouraging during the year with all land plots in 'Peacock Valley' 
and 'Mara Ridge' fully sold by the second quarter of 2021/22. 'Sunrise Ridge', luxury holiday homes 
located alongside the golf course, also gained encouraging traction with ~80 per cent of holiday 
homes sold as at 31 March 2022. 
In addition to products earmarked under 'Peacock Valley', 'Sunrise Ridge' and 'Mara Ridge', RHL 
possess a vast land bank within the 'Victoria Golf and Country Resort' in Digana. This land parcels 
hold prospects for future leisure linked development opportunities, especially given the expected 
appreciation of the land value with the second phase of the central expressway being declared 
open and the completion of the central expressway in CY2024.
Awards 
 y
'Victoria Golf and Country Resort' was awarded the 'Best Golf Course in Sri Lanka 2021' by 
World Golf Awards.
The newly revamped 'Crescat Boulevard' was re-launched during the year.
Tri-Zen celebrates 'topping-off' ceremony.

118 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Industry Group Review
Property
Income Statement Indicators
Rs.million
2021/22
2020/21
%
Revenue* 
Property Development 
41,102 
1,612 
2,450
Real Estate 
374 
298 
26
Total
41,476 
1,910 
2,072
*Including share of revenue of equity accounted investees.
Property Development
 y
Revenue from the 'Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort' was recognised 
during the year post the completion and handover of all sold 
residential and commercial units. The project accounted for ~85 per 
cent of the total revenue in the industry group.
 y
Revenue growth was further driven by the encouraging sales 
momentum witnessed in the 'Tri-Zen' project amounting to Rs.5.74 
billion during the year under review [2020/21: Rs.1.30 billion].
 y
Real estate sales at RHL also contributed to revenue, with all land 
plots in 'Peacock Valley' and 'Mara Ridge' fully sold by the second 
quarter of 2021/22. 
 y
Revenue from the operation of the 18-hole champion golf course at 
RHL recorded an improvement due to a resumption in activities since 
the pandemic.
Financial and Manufactured Capital
Vauxhall Land Developments Limited (VLDL)
As disclosed in the JKH Annual Report 2020/21 and as per the terms of 
the transaction, the Group acquired the balance 13.3 per cent equity 
stake of VLDL from Finlays Colombo Limited (FCL) for a consideration of 
Rs.2.99 billion in September 2021. This purchase was an extension to the 
transaction that materialised post FCL exercising its option to divest its 
holding as provided under the joint development agreement entered into 
in 2018. Accordingly, VLDL is now a fully owned subsidiary of the Group.
The contiguous 9.38 acre property is one of the largest privately held land 
banks in central Colombo and is within a proposed zoning area identified 
under the Beira Lake Development Plan of the Urban Development 
Authority (UDA). The strategic location in the heart of Colombo city allows 
for a large-scale development with views over the Beira Lake.
This property is a part of the Group's land banking strategy, where 
strategic land parcels were identified in order to capitalise on 
opportunities arising in the real estate and property development 
industry. A development project has been earmarked for this property, 
subject to market conditions, once 'Tri-Zen' reaches a certain level of 
completion, to ensure a steady cycle of revenue recognition through 
the planned monetisation of the Group's land bank. In furtherance of 
this strategy, the master planning and development strategy continued 
during the year under review.
Capital Management Review
The section that ensues discusses the performance of the industry group 
during the year under review, under the key forms of Capital applicable 
for the industry group.
Real Estate
 y
The increase in revenue in the Real Estate sector is primarily 
attributable to the resumption in mall operations post the easing of 
restrictions. The malls were closed during select periods of the year 
given restrictions in movement. 
 y
The 'Crescat Boulevard' which was closed for refurbishment on 31 
December 2020 was reopened in November 2021.
Rs.million
2021/22
2020/21
%
EBITDA*
Property Development 
 2,724 
 160 
1,605
Real Estate 
 241 
 (177)
236
Total
 2,965 
 (17)
17,191
PBT** 
Property Development 
(1,030)
76 
(1,453)
Real Estate 
183 
(212)
186
Total 
(847)
(136)
(521)
*Note that EBITDA includes interest income but excludes all impacts from foreign 
currency exchange gains and losses, to demonstrate the underlying cash operational 
performance of businesses.
**Share of results of equity accounted investees are shown net of all taxes.
 y
Discussions on EBITDA are inclusive of fair value gains/losses on 
investment property (IP). The Group is of the view that fair value 
gains/losses on IP are integral to the industry group's core operations, 
given the land banking strategy of the Property industry group and 
the view of monetising such land through development and sales. 
 y
However, given the current market conditions and uncertainty, 
the steep depreciation of the Rupee and the outlook on US Dollar 
linked rental for commercial space, as a prudential measure, 
Waterfront Properties (Private) Limited (WPL) reassessed the fair 
value of the office spaces at the 'Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort', 
and accordingly recognised an impairment loss of Rs.4.90 billion on 
its investment property. As outlined under the Group Consolidated 
Review, this has been adjusted for in arriving at the recurring 
performance of the industry group. 
 y
Accordingly, the recurring EBITDA of the industry group amounted 
to Rs.7.87 billion, a notable increase over the previous year [2020/21: 
negative Rs.17 million]. 
 y
Performance driven by the Real Estate sector was primarily on 
account of the resumption in mall activities and fair value gains 
recorded in certain businesses within the sector. 
 y
Excluding the aforementioned IP loss at WPL, the fair value gains/
losses on IP for the industry group amounted to a gain of Rs.614 
million in 2021/22 in comparison to the loss of Rs.291 million in 
2020/21. The fair value loss on IP of Rs.349 million recorded in 
2020/21 at 'Crescat Boulevard' reduced to a loss of Rs.42 million 
in 2021/22, contributing to the increase in EBITDA during the year 
under review.
Revenue from the 'Cinnamon Life Integrated 
Resort' was recognised during the year post the 
completion and handover of all sold residential 
and commercial units. 

119
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
The industry group places significant emphasis on minimising the 
impact of its operations on natural resources. Continuous efforts and 
initiatives are rolled-out to reduce its energy and water usage within its 
businesses, whilst operating within the Group's Environmental policies 
and industry best practice. 
Natural Capital
Energy and emissions management
Relevance: Financial, regulatory, and brand reputation 
implications
Approach
 y
Implementing and improving energy efficiency.
 y
Use of renewable energy sources.
Initiatives
 y
Installation of a Variable Frequency Drives (VFD) 
chiller at 'Crescat Boulevard' resulting in an annual 
saving of ~ 360,000 kWh.
 y
Efficient usage of energy through continuous 
replacement of existing fluorescent lamps with light 
emitting diode (LED) lighting.
 y
Continued operation of the biogas plant at RHL 
which generates renewable energy from organic 
waste.
Water and waste management
Relevance: Implications on brand image and 
environment, compliance with Government and 
industry regulations
Approach
 y
Compliance with all regulatory requirements in 
relation to responsible waste disposal.
 y
Conservation of water. 
Initiatives
 y
Implemented the drip irrigation system at 'K-Zone 
Ja-Ela' which uses harvested rainwater. 
 y
WBL continued to use condensed water from air 
conditioners for irrigation.
 y
Continued disposal of plastic and e-waste through 
contracted third-party recyclers.
 y
7,452 kg of paper waste recycled.
 y
Restructuring the road at 'Crescat Boulevard' 
facilitated by 'Plasticcycle' through 'AGC Innovate', 
using Plastic Modified Asphalt Concrete (PMAC). 
 y
Continued segregation of waste into colour-coded 
bins at cafeterias and garbage collection points in 
WBL and MKL.
RHL aims to reduce its waste to landfill by 80%, against the 2018/19 
baseline.
Goal
80% 
 by 2024/25 
Note: The status disclosed above is the progress made at the end of the current 
financial year and the performance measured against the goal will be reported 
independently of each year against the goal of the baseline year.
Status
99% 
 during 2021/22
Waste
Indicators
Carbon Footprint (MT)
2020/21
5%
2021/22
733
770
Waste Disposed (kg ‘000)
2020/21
3%
2021/22
38
39
Balance Sheet Indicators
Rs.million
2021/22
2020/21
%
Assets
Property Development 
265,204 
185,803 
43
Real Estate 
11,550 
11,079 
4
Total
276,754 
196,882 
41
 y
The increase in assets of the industry group is primarily driven by the 
Property Development sector, on account of project related costs 
pertaining to the 'Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort' which is captured 
under other non-current assets as work-in-progress costs. The 
relevant costs pertaining to the commercial tower at the 'Cinnamon 
Life Integrated Resort' were recognised under investment property as 
at 31 March 2022. 
 y
The USD 395 million syndicated loan facility at 'Cinnamon Life Integrated 
Resort', which was due for repayment in July 2022, was successfully 
refinanced in December 2021 through a USD 225 million long-term loan 
facility and a six-month bridging facility of USD 100 million. 
 y
During the year under review, debt at 'Cinnamon Life Integrated 
Resort' increased by Rs.42.56 billion to Rs.101.41 billion [2020/21: 
Rs.58.86 billion], primarily due to the translation impact of its foreign 
currency denominated syndicate debt facility given the steep 
depreciation of the domestic currency towards the latter end of the 
year under review.

120 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
The industry group continued its focus on training and development 
initiatives to ensure the development of employees. The industry 
group customised activities as per job requirements and training was 
conducted virtually considering limitations due to the pandemic.
Human Capital 
Number of Employees 
260 
Industry Group Review
Property
Health and safety
Relevance: Monitoring occupational health and safety 
incidents and practices. Assessing the risks arising from 
its business model of utilising third party construction 
contractors, and implications on brand image
Approach
 y
Maintaining health and safety related processes and 
practices.
 y
Training and creating awareness. 
Initiatives
 y
ISO 45001 health and safety surveillance audits 
and internal audits were carried out to ensure 
maintenance, housekeeping, and security at all malls.
 y
Health and safety internal audits were carried out at 
head office, WBL and MKL in order to maintain a safe 
workplace.
 y
Training sessions were conducted onsite including 
on-the-spot, special and refresher trainings, 
firefighting, emergency evacuation for workers at the 
construction sites. 
 y
Continued verification of food hygiene standards at 
malls through regular food sample tests.
 y
Dengue preventive activities were carried out to 
ensure a safe working environment.
 y
First aid, fire safety, food hygiene, basic health and 
safety training provided to employees.
 y
Zero incidences of injury were reported during the 
year under review.
 y
Continued preventive measures were taken to 
control the spread of COVID-19.
Indicators
Training Per Employee (Hours)
2020/21
75%
2021/22
1
4
Training (Hours)
2020/21
77%
2021/22
1,053
244
The industry group continued its efforts to maintain and strengthen 
relationships with its diverse stakeholders. Additional efforts were made 
to support the community on challenges faced due to the COVID-19 
pandemic.
Significant Suppliers - Property Development 
 y
Construction contractors 
 y
Architects and interior designers
Significant Suppliers - RHL 
 y
Food and beverage and amenities suppliers 
 y
Travel agents and travel websites 
 y
Casual employees 
Social and Relationship Capital 
An Arts workshop for children and youth at the De Mel Park Community Centre, 
Colombo 2.
Fire safety training at 'Crescat Boulevard'.

121
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Community development 
Relevance: Proactive community engagement towards 
building trust and promoting brand image
Approach
 y
Building and maintaining relationships among 
diverse communities.
 y
Development of skills and employability of youth by 
providing job opportunities.
Initiatives
 y
The Property industry group in collaboration with 
John Keells Foundation (JKF) continued its public-
private partnership with Sri Lanka Railways for the 
18th consecutive year to refurbish and maintain the 
historic Slave Island railway station in Colombo. 
During the year, partial refurbishment was initiated 
while routine maintenance services were provided to 
the railway station. 
 y
Continued to support JKF's initiatives under John 
Keells 'Praja Shakthi' project in Colombo 2 by:
 y
Assisting in ongoing needs assessment and 
planning of capacity development activities 
to support street vendors engaged in catering 
services in collaboration with the Colombo 
Municipality Council.
 y
Supporting the conduct of strategic needs 
assessments for 'Metro Homes Residencies' 
(adjacent to 'Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort') 
including the identification and sourcing of 
security measures for the housing complex 
following a request for support by the 'Metro 
Homes Residencies'.
 y
Supporting the establishment of a Child Resource 
Centre at the De Mel Park Community Centre, 
Colombo 2 in collaboration with ChildFund Sri Lanka. 
 y
Under 'John Keells Praja Shakthi' project in 
Nithulemada, RHL continued its collaboration 
with JKF and the Provincial Ministry of Education 
to establish a pre-school in the village adjoining 
the 'Victoria Golf and Country Resort'. Survey 
and demarcation of the related land have been 
completed while plan clearance has been initiated.
 y
English and Information Technology scholarships 
were awarded to 37 school children under the 
'English for Teens' initiative of JKF's English Language 
Scholarship Programme.

122 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Financial Services 
Industry Group Review
Industry Group Structure 
Insurance 
 y
Comprehensive life insurance solutions 
through Union Assurance PLC (UA).
 y
General insurance solutions through Fairfirst 
Insurance Limited (FIL).
Banking 
 y
End-to-end banking solutions through 
Nations Trust Bank PLC (NTB).
 y
Network of branches for corporate, retail, 
and small and medium enterprise (SME) 
clients. 
 y
Sole acquirer of the flagship centurion 
product range of American Express cards 
in Sri Lanka.
 y
Largest issuer of credit cards in Sri Lanka.
Stock Broking 
 y
Stockbroking services through a leading 
stockbroking company in Sri Lanka, John 
Keells Stock Brokers (JKSB). 
 y
Number of trade execution relationships 
with high-net-worth individuals, 
institutional investors, leading foreign 
securities houses and retail clients via an 
'online trading portal'.
Inputs (Rs.million)
2021/22
2020/21
%
2019/20
Total assets
74,248 
76,080 
(2)
60,058 
Total equity
17,100 
19,465 
(12)
18,376 
Total debt1
161 
143 
12 
331 
Capital employed2
17,705 
19,906 
(11)
18,972 
Employees (No.)3
822 
824 
(0)
877 
Outputs (Rs.million)
2021/22
2020/21
%
2019/20
Turnover4
24,149 
20,890 
16 
19,675 
EBIT
5,000 
3,360 
49 
2,755 
PBT
4,995 
3,360 
49 
2,755 
PAT
4,314 
2,497 
73 
2,222 
EBIT per employee
6 
4 
49 
3 
Carbon footprint (MT)
885 
992 
(11)
1,388 
1. Excludes lease liabilities.
2. For equity accounted investees, capital employed is representative of the Group's equity investment in these 
companies. This is inclusive of lease liabilities.
3. As per the sustainability reporting boundary.
4. Revenue is inclusive of the Group's share of equity accounted investees.
Contribution to 
the John Keells Group
10%
Revenue
24%
EBIT
3%
Capital Employed
1%
Carbon Footprint

123
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Macroeconomic Update 
 y
Sri Lanka's financial services industry recorded an 8 per cent 
growth in CY2021 [CY2020: 11 per cent] and contributed 9 per 
cent to GDP during the year [CY2020: 9 per cent].
 y
The insurance industry recorded total assets at Rs.879.8 billion in 
CY2021, an 11 per cent growth against the previous year [CY2020: 
Rs.789.7 billion], while gross written premium (GWP) noted a 12 
per cent increase to Rs.233.8 billion [CY2020: Rs.208.2 billion].
 y
The life insurance industry recorded a 21 per cent growth in GWP 
during CY2021, amounting to Rs.124.74 billion [CY2020: Rs.103.03 
billion]. The growth in premiums were primarily driven by growth 
in single premiums, regular new business premiums and renewal 
premiums which grew by 59 per cent, 29 per cent and 15 per cent, 
respectively.
 y
Private sector credit growth increased to 13.1 per cent in CY2021 
[CY2020 6.5 per cent] which was driven by the accommodative 
monetary policy stance adopted during the year. 
 y
Industry gross non-performing loans (NPL) reduced to 4.5 per cent 
in CY2021 in comparison to 4.9 per cent recorded in CY2020.
 y
The All Share Price Index (ASPI) of the Colombo Stock Exchange 
(CSE) recorded a 80.5 per cent gain in CY2021, the highest annual 
return recorded since CY2010, whilst the Standard and Poor's 
Sri Lanka 20 (S&P SL20) index noted a 60.5 per cent increase in 
CY2021, which is the highest ever recorded [CY2020: negative 10.2 
per cent]. 
 y
Daily average turnover of equity stood at Rs.4.89 billion in CY2021, 
a 157 per cent increase against the previous year [CY2020: Rs.1.90 
billion], primarily driven by high domestic investor participation.
 y
The CSE revised the index calculation methodology of the ASPI to 
a free float adjusted market capitalisation weighted index effective 
24 January 2022 onwards (previously the ASPI was a full market 
capitalisation weighted index).
 y
The CSE enabled local entities incorporated in Sri Lanka to issue 
and list foreign currency denominated shares on the CSE subject 
to predefined conditions, including requirements on foreign 
currency revenue generation. 
 y
The revised Security Exchange Commission (SEC) Act No. 19 of 
2021 amended the Central Depository Systems (CDS), Automated 
Trading Systems (ATS), listing and stockbroker rules of the CSE to 
facilitate the implementation of the Delivery Versus Payment (DVP) 
settlement mechanism which enhanced the margining model 
facilitating multi-currency trading.
 y
The CSE and the SEC commenced a project to launch a Central 
Counter Party (CCP) system for equities which will significantly 
enhance the post-trade risk management of the equity market.
Key Policy and Regulatory Highlights
 y
Since January 2021, the Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL) increased 
the Standing Deposit Facility Rate (SDFR) and the Standing 
Lending Facility Rate (SLFR) twice by a total of 200 basis points 
each with the rates at 6.5 per cent and 7.5 per cent as at March 
2022, respectively, whilst the Statutory Reserve Ratio (SRR) was 
increased by a total of 200 bps to 4 per cent as at March 2022. 
Subsequently in April 2022, the SDFR and SLFR were increased by 
700 basis points to 13.5 per cent and 14.5 per cent respectively on 
the back of inflationary pressures, driven by demand-pull inflation, 
domestic supply disruptions, foreign exchange challenges and 
global increases in commodity prices.
 y
The grace period offered on Saubhagya COVID-19 Renaissance 
Facility for businesses was extended till 31 December 2021.
 y
A refinance scheme to support state owned enterprises (SOE) was 
introduced.
 y
The CBSL implemented many guidelines to limit the outflow of 
foreign currency from the banking system, such as a 100 per cent 
cash margin requirement on selected imports, restrictions on 
forward rate contracts, mandates issued for all licensed banks to 
convert a specified proportion of foreign currency received via the 
general public through export proceeds and worker remittances 
to the CBSL.
 y
Policy interventions on market driven aspects such interest rate 
caps continued during the year. 
 y
The Financial Intelligence Unit of Sri Lanka (FIU) rolled-out 
regulations aimed at introducing additional measures to mitigate 
the emerging money laundering/terrorist financing risks, especially 
to address the third wave of the COVID-19 pandemic.
 y
The Insurance Regulatory Commission of Sri Lanka (IRCSL) 
introduced regulations stipulating the maximum commission rates 
payable to insurance brokers and insurance agents by an insurer.
 y
Value added tax (VAT) on financial services were increased from 15 
per cent to 18 per cent from January 2022 onwards.
External Environment and Operational Review 

124 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Industry Group Review
Financial Services
The Life Insurance business recorded a surplus of Rs.1.60 billion [CY2019: Rs.825 million] as per the 
actuarial valuation carried out at the end of the year. The distribution of a one-off surplus of Rs.3.38 
billion - attributable to non-participating and non-unit fund of unit linked business, which was 
transferred from the life policyholder fund to the life shareholder fund in 2017/18 based on the 
directive dated 20 March 2018 issued by IRCSL - continues to remain restricted subject to meeting 
governance requirements stipulated by the IRCSL and can only be released upon receiving 
approval from the IRCSL.
UA also established the SLFRS-17 steering committee to ensure strategic, tactical, and operational 
readiness for the implementation of SLFRS-17, which included implementing a SLFRS-17 roadmap. 
During CY2021, UA continued its 'digital first' business model in line with its mission of positioning 
itself as the foremost digital life insurance company in Sri Lanka. The 'Clicklife' self-servicing 
app, a turnkey end-to-end digital insurance solution launched in CY2020 continued to perform 
beyond expectation providing customers greater remote accessibility with added service features. 
Digitisation initiatives during the year included:
 y
Launch of 'Union Health 360', a health insurance solution that covers a wide range of health 
protection needs for the entire family.
 y
Launch of 'Union Smart Life', an investment product which also provides long-term protection 
and an attractive return at maturity. 
Awards 
 y
'Most Innovative Digital Insurance Company and Digital Innovative Sri Lanka' at the 
International Business Magazine Awards 2021.
 y
'Best Workplace in the Insurance Sector' and 'Most Innovative Insurance Services Provider' 
at the Global Economics Awards 2021.
 y
'Best Life Insurance Company Sri Lanka 2021', 'Most Admired Insurance Company of the 
Year - Sri Lanka' and 'Digital Insurance Innovation of the Year 2021' at the World Economic 
Magazine Awards 2021.
 y
'Domestic Life Insurer of the Year - Sri Lanka' and 'New Insurance Product of the Year -  
Sri Lanka' at the Insurance Asia Awards 2021. 
 y
'Sri Lanka's Best Customer Service Insurance Provide' at the International Finance Awards 2021.
 y
Winner of 'Great Place to Work' title for the 9th consecutive year as well as the 'Best Place to 
Work in Asia 2021' title.
Banking 
NTB continued to adapt to challenging circumstances during the year under review by delivering 
customer-centric solutions, continued stability and record profitability aided by the digitisation of 
processes and optimisation of risk-reward dynamics.
The deteriorating external financing position coupled with a decline in tourism earnings and 
remittances impacted Sri Lanka's foreign exchange reserves, which compelled the CBSL to 
introduce several measures to limit foreign currency outflows from the banking system. Although 
such policy interventions are deemed necessary during periods of uncertainty, reverting to a more 
market driven approach is required once the current volatility settles. 
'Fri-Mi' launched several new digital features.
'Union Smart Life' was launched during the year.
Operational Review
Insurance 
UA recorded an 18 per cent growth in GWP, 
primarily driven by a 42 per cent increase 
in regular new business premiums, which 
in turn, resulted in UA being placed as the 
second largest regular new business producer 
in the industry. Renewal premiums noted a 
12 per cent growth reflecting the recovery to 
normalised premium payment patterns whilst 
first year premiums demonstrated a 42 per 
cent growth, well above the industry average 
growth of 29 per cent. 
The agency channel continued to be the 
primary channel contributor to revenue 
contributing 81 per cent to GWP and 
recording a 15 per cent growth during 
the year under review. The business also 
continued to strengthen its bancassurance 
channel which recorded a growth of 27 per 
cent in comparison to the previous year. 
To this end, UA extended its long-term 
partnership with NTB and entered into a 
partnership with Standard Chartered Bank. 
UA further strengthened its partnerships 
with multiple leading banks consolidating its 
position as a leading bancassurance provider 
in the country. The alternate channel, which 
acts as a complementary channel to the 
agency and bancassurance channels, recorded 
a growth of 34 per cent.
Net investment income recorded a growth of 
5 per cent in CY2021 [CY2020: 10 per cent]. 
The business continued to maintain a strong 
solvency position, despite the volatile market 
with the Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR) at 228 
per cent as at CY2021, which is significantly 
above the minimum 120 per cent CAR 
threshold stipulated by the IRCSL. Total assets 
under management stood at Rs.70.76 billion 
as at CY2021, a 13 per cent growth against the 
comparative year [CY2020: Rs.62.60 billion]. 
UA's investment portfolio stood at Rs.59.33 
billion recording a 13 per cent growth in 
CY2021 while the Life Fund, which is backed 
by reputed re-insurers with an international 
credit rating of 'A-' or above, recorded a 17 per 
cent growth to Rs.48.91 billion. 
Underwriting and net acquisition costs 
increased by 33 per cent to Rs.2.84 billion 
on account of strong growth in regular new 
business premiums. Claims and benefits to 
policyholders recorded a 22 per cent increase 
to Rs.4.61 billion [CY2020: Rs.3.79 billion] on the 
back of maturity payouts in accordance with 
the contractual obligations and an increase in 
surrender payouts due to adverse economic 
conditions.

125
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
NTB continued to adopt a cautious and selective approach to lending, refocusing on segments 
of the economy that are anticipated to have upside potential and critical to the economy such as 
export oriented and local manufacturing sectors. Through this focused strategy, NTB was able to 
secure an 18 per cent growth in loans and advances. The growth in net interest income (NII) was 3 
per cent as a result of regulatory caps on interest rates on selected products and conscious efforts 
to optimise risk-reward dynamics through increasing exposure to wholesale banking. The relatively 
slower NII growth, against a portfolio expansion of 18 per cent led to a net interest margin of 3.9 
per cent for CY2021 [CY2020: 4.1 per cent]. 
Despite the lacklustre economic conditions and increased provisioning requirements stemming 
from the downgrade of the sovereign rating, the Bank was able to improve its credit quality, with 
impairment charges declining by 3 per cent in CY2021. Gross non-performing loans (NPL) ratio 
declined to 4.9 per cent [CY2020: 7.2 per cent], on the back of customer-centric repayment plans 
and in lieu of the selective approach to lending followed by the Bank in recent years. 
The Bank continued to strengthen its 'digital first' approach by driving operating efficiencies 
through automation of internal processes and productivity improvements as outlined in detail in 
the ensuing section, which led to a 2 per cent reduction in operating expenses. This translated to a 
significant improvement in the cost to income ratio which decreased to 39 per cent in CY2021, in 
comparison to 45 per cent in CY2020. 
During the year under review, NTB successfully raised Rs.4.00 billion through a rated, senior, 
redeemable debenture and also obtained a USD 40 million facility from FMO, the Dutch 
Entrepreneurial Development Bank, which further strengthened its capital position whilst 
maintaining adequate capital buffers in line with regulatory requirements. The Bank's Tier I capital 
and total capital ratios stood at 15.3 per cent and 18.0 per cent, respectively [CY2020: 14.8 per cent 
and 18.3 per cent, respectively].
As disclosed to the CSE in December 2021, the Group currently holds 29.48 per cent of voting 
shares in NTB. By the letter dated 21 December 2020, the director of bank supervision of the 
CBSL, directed the Group to reduce its voting shareholding in NTB to 20 per cent on or before 31 
December 2021 and to 15 per cent by 31 December 2022. JKH has requested for an extension of 
the deadline from the CBSL given the current environment.
The Bank's digitally enabled customers increased by 14 per cent whist digital transactions 
accounted for 87 per cent of total transactions [CY2020: 82 per cent]. To this end, the Bank 
capitalised on the customers' unprecedented shift to digital platforms post-pandemic, focusing on 
the entire customer journey by launching several innovative value-added digital solutions whilst 
improving customer relationships and increasing wallet share. Further, 'FriMi' was the first private 
banking app to be awarded a nationwide payment project for the roll-out of Quick Response (QR) 
based payments for the expressway, in partnership with the Road Development Authority (RDA). 
Other key developments during the year under review include:
Customer Onboarding 
 y
Nations Alpha - Fully digital customer on boarding platform, inclusive of eKnow Your Client 
(KYC) and vKYC features, which has enabled paperless activation of accounts, eliminating the 
need for physical visits to branches.
Customer Management 
 y
Smart automated teller machine (ATM) and customer relationship management (CRM) - Allows 
customers to self-activate cards and generate a green personal identification number (PIN) and 
other self-servicing features.
 y
Smart Collect - Digitalisation of cash collection and integration of online settlement methods 
for credit cards, loans and leases.
 y
Smart Statements - A holistic overview of transactions and in-depth analysis of the portfolio.
Communications 
 y
Nations e-Box - Access to customer letters and notices. 
Awards 
 y
'Best Customer Service Bank - 
Sri Lanka' and 'Best Digital Bank - 
Sri Lanka' at the World Economic 
Magazine Awards 2021. 
 y
Ranked among the 'Top 50 Digital 
Challenger Banks' in Asia Pacific.
 y
Bronze award - 'Online Brand of the 
Year' at the SLIM Brand Excellence 
Awards 2021.
 y
Federation of Information Technology 
Industry Sri Lanka (FITIS) Digital 
Excellence Awards 2021:
 y
Gold award - Connected Product 
('FriMi')
 y
Gold award - Workforce Enablement 
 y
Silver award - Digital Marketing 
Strategy ('FriMi')
 y
Silver award - Digitised Organisation 
 y
Silver award - Connected Partner 
Ecosystem 
 y
Bronze award – Customer Centric 
Process Automation 
Stock Broking 
The prevailing low interest rate regime 
coupled with a notable increase in domestic 
participation aided the Sri Lankan equity 
market to perform exceptionally well and 
contributed to a significant rise in market 
turnover levels during the year under review. 
Whilst this momentum was successfully 
maintained during most parts of the year, the 
market witnessed a slowdown in activity in 
the fourth quarter of the year on the back of 
an increase in interest rates and deterioration 
of the economy while on the global front, 
uncertainty associated with Russia and Ukraine 
as well as the hawkish monetary policy of the 
Federal Reserve also exerted pressure. 
JKSB continued to focus on updating its 
processes and systems to improve alignment 
with client needs and adopted digitalised 
solutions and efficient cost management 
methods to strengthen its digital presence. 
During the year under review, JKSB also 
launched the mobile app 'DirectFN' facilitating 
client engagement, investor forums and 
access to market updates and research reports. 
Client account details such as cash account 
analysis, portfolio and dividends received were 
made available on this platform.

126 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Industry Group Review
Financial Services
Capital Management Review
The section that ensues discusses the performance of the industry group during the year under review, under the key forms of Capital applicable for 
the industry group.
Income Statement Indicators 
As the key businesses within the industry group comprise of the Banking 
and Insurance sectors, the ensuing discussion will predominantly focus 
on PBT and PAT, in order to capture the net earnings of the businesses as 
reflected in the financial statements of the Group.
Rs.million
2021/22
2020/21
%
PBT*
Insurance 
 2,645 
 1,596 
66
Banking
 2,148 
 1,594 
35
Stock Broking 
 202 
 170 
19
Total
 4,995 
 3,360 
49
* Share of results of equity accounted investees are shown net of all related taxes.
Insurance 
 y
The business witnessed a strong performance in its gross written 
premiums (GWP), recording a growth of 15 per cent during the year 
under review [2020/21:18 per cent]. The growth in GWP was driven 
by a 29 per cent increase in regular new business premiums and a 15 
per cent increase in renewal premiums.
 y
Benefits and claims increased by 25 per cent to Rs.4.87 billion 
[2020/21: Rs.3.90 billion] on account of an expansion of the policy 
portfolio base, increase in maturities payout in line with contractual 
obligations and increase in surrender payouts stemming from 
adverse economic conditions. Net claims amounted to 32 per cent of 
net written premiums [2020/21: 29 per cent].
 y
Underwriting and net acquisition costs increased by 31 per cent to 
Rs.2.96 billion in line with new business growth.
 y
Investment income in 2021/22 stood at Rs.5.39 billion, a 6 per cent 
growth in comparison 2020/21, supported by a realignment of the 
asset allocation, despite the subdued market interest rates that 
prevailed during most parts of the year.
 y
Stringent cost optimisation measures enabled UA to manage its 
operating expenses, despite the inflationary pressures and the steep 
currency depreciation towards the latter part of the year. Accordingly, 
the expense ratio was 23 per cent [2020/21: 24 per cent]. 
 y
Life insurance contract liabilities including unit-linked funds increased 
by 14 per cent to Rs.51.35 billion, due to the increase in contract 
liabilities by Rs.6.19 billion during the year as a result of the growth of 
the business.
 y
UA recorded an annual life insurance surplus of Rs.1.60 billion 
2021/22, a notable increase against the surplus of Rs.825 million 
recorded in the previous year. 
 y
Fairfirst Insurance Limited, an equity accounted investee under UA, 
with interests in the general insurance industry, recorded a 14 per 
cent increase in PAT.
Financial and Manufactured Capital
Banking 
 y
NTB recorded an increase in profits despite the challenging operating 
environment, given efforts aimed at driving cost efficiencies through 
automation and lean management initiatives. 
 y
NTB recorded an 18 per cent in net interest income (NII) mainly 
stemming from a portfolio growth of 20 per cent based on the 
selective lending strategy adopted by the Bank. Further, the NII 
growth was assisted by a ten-basis point increase in margins in 
comparison to 2020/21.
 y
The non-performing loans (NPL) ratio declined to 5.31 per cent in 
comparison to 6.16 per cent in 2020/21 reflecting improvements in 
portfolio quality, as outlined. 
 y
The impairment charges for the year increased by 45 per cent mainly 
due to prudential provisions made on both customers and Sri Lanka 
Government securities denominated in foreign currency based on 
macroeconomic factors and moratorium fallouts. 
 y
Focused cost management strategies enabled the business to reduce 
its operating expenses resulting in an improvement of the cost-
to-income (CI) ratio to 36.8 per cent during the year under review 
[2020/21: 43.4 per cent].
Stock Broking 
 y
The Stock Broking business recorded a 21 per cent increase in 
revenue during the year under review, primarily in lieu of the 
retail segment [2020/21: 197 per cent growth]. However, due to 
uncertainties associated with the macroeconomic environment, 
the business witnessed a slowdown in activity and relatively lower 
market turnovers in the fourth quarter of 2021/22.
 y
The business rolled-out various initiatives aimed at managing its 
operational cost, which resulted in productivity and cost efficiencies 
positively impacting the profitability of the business.
Rs.million
2021/22
2020/21
%
PAT*
Insurance
2,014 
777 
159
Banking
2,148 
1,594 
35
Stock Broking 
152 
126 
21
Total
4,314 
2,497 
73
* Share of results of equity accounted investees are shown net of all related taxes.
 y
Insurance - The strong growth in GWP coupled with the optimisation 
of expenses resulted in an increase in PAT of the Life Insurance 
business. The downward revision of the tax rate from 28 per cent to 
24 per cent which was effective from 1 January 2021, the repeal of 
notional tax credit and the economic service charge (ESC) write off 
contributed to the increase in PAT during the year under review.
 y
Banking - Trading gains, cost efficiencies, improvement in portfolio 
quality and the reduction in the effective tax rate led to an increase in 
profitability at NTB. 

127
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
The Financial Services industry group strives to operate with 
minimal impact to the environment in accordance with the Group's 
environmental policies, particularly given its service-oriented nature of 
operations. 
Natural Capital
Energy and emissions management
Relevance: Financial, regulatory, and brand reputation 
implications
Approach
 y
Improving energy efficiency and conservation.
 y
Alignment with international best practice and 
standards.
Initiatives
 y
Replacement of traditional light bulbs with energy 
efficient LED bulbs resulting in an annual saving of 
~100,000 kWh. 
 y
Monitoring of energy consumption, rationalisation 
of branch networks and relocating to more energy 
efficient buildings. 
Waste and effluent management
Relevance: Regulatory and brand reputation implications
Approach
 y
Compliance with all regulatory requirements for 
responsible water discharge and waste disposal.
Initiatives
 y
98,000 litres of water collected by UA as a by-product 
of condensation from air conditioners, was reused for 
washing of vehicles. 
 y
Effluents discharged was in line with requisite water 
quality standards, where relevant.
 y
UA continued to operate the wastewater treatment 
plant at the Kurunegala branch.
 y
UA segregated and disposed the following waste 
through third-party recyclers thereby diverting waste 
away from landfills;
 y
6,166 kg of paper waste
 y
72 kg of plastic 
 y
13,200 kg of food waste 
Indicators
Carbon Footprint (MT)
2020/21
11%
2021/22
885
992
As a service-oriented industry group, significant emphasis is place on the 
management of Human Capital, with regular training and development 
opportunities provided to employees to enhance service levels and 
customer satisfaction. Several initiatives were carried out during the year 
to ensure employees were provided with a safe working environment. 
Human Capital 
Health and safety
Relevance: Providing a safe working environment to 
improve employee productivity
Approach
 y
Maintaining health and safety related procedures and 
practices.
 y
Training and creating awareness.
Initiatives
 y
The annual fire evacuation drill was conducted at the 
UA head office in association with the Colombo Fire 
Brigade.
 y
COVID-19 workplace safety procedures and 
guidelines were followed to ensure employee and 
customer safety. 
Talent management 
Relevance: The need to continuously upgrade the skills 
of existing staff 
Approach
 y
Attracting and retaining high-potential individuals. 
 y
Providing regular training and development 
opportunities. 
Initiatives
 y
Conducting HIPO (High Potential Individuals) 
programmes targeting employees at mid-level 
positions by providing exposure to cross functional 
projects and identification of talent through a 
comprehensive selection process. 
 y
The SMT (Senior Management Team) programme 
was conducted enabling employees to be a part 
of high-level decision-making and idea generation 
platforms in order to improve career development 
and succession planning. 
 y
OMT (Operational Management Team) and JMT 
(Junior Management Team) programmes were 
launched during the year paving the way for 
employees to be a part of high-level of exposure 
driven platforms to aid career progression. 

128 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Industry Group Review
Financial Services
Indicators
Injuries (Number)
2020/21
8%
2021/22
14
13
Training (Hours)
2020/21
39%
2021/22
2,969
1,817
The Financial Services industry group carried out community 
engagements with various stakeholders aimed at empowering 
communities, thereby fostering greater productivity and efficiency 
within the industry and economy. Community engagement activities 
were conducted throughout the year in accordance with statutory 
obligations and the Code of Conduct specified by the Group.
Significant Suppliers 
 y
Reinsurance partners 
 y
Janitorial services providers 
 y
Security services providers 
 y
Bancassurance partners
Social and Relationship Capital 
Ethics, fraud, and corruption 
Relevance: Impact on brand reputation and possible 
regulatory non-compliance
Approach
 y
Strict monitoring of processes related to fraud and 
corruption.
Initiatives
 y
Conducted audits and reviews to ensure coverage of 
fraud, corruption, and unethical behaviour under the 
overall risk management process of the Group and 
statutory requirements. 
 y
UA produced 300 'Million Dollar Round Table' (MDRT) 
qualifiers which was the highest ever in the Sri 
Lankan insurance industry in CY2021. This showcased 
a high standard of excellence including providing 
outstanding client service and strict ethical conduct. 
Community development
Relevance: Impact on brand reputation and possible 
regulatory non-compliance
Approach
 y
Providing education opportunities for the youth.
 y
Supporting communities impacted by COVID-19.
Initiatives
 y
UA partnered with the Department of Probation and 
Child Care Services together with leading companies 
in Sri Lanka to provide e-learning facilities to selected 
child development centres in Sri Lanka. 50 units of 
tabs and computers were donated to children in 
these development centres to facilitate uninterrupted 
education during the pandemic.
 y
UA sponsored the annual education expenses of 
~220 children based in SOS children's villages of 
Monaragala and Nuwara Eliya towards ensuring 
uninterrupted learning support during the pandemic. 
 y
Under the 'English for Teens' initiative of John 
Keells Foundation's English Language Scholarship 
Programme, 89 English and IT scholarships were 
awarded to high performing school children. UA 
also represented JKF at the annual 'English for Teens' 
inauguration programmes in Mullaitivu and Vavuniya, 
 y
As a part of UA's COVID-19 response, medical 
equipment were donated to Gampaha, 
Anuradhapura, Medawachchiya and Kamburupititya 
base hospitals. 
 y
UA in partnership with the Disaster Management 
Centre, A-PAD and 'Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts' 
distributed ~3,000 meals to people affected by 
inclement weather as part of the 'Meals that Heal' 
food donation initiative by 'Cinnamon'. 
 y
UA in partnership with the Ministry of Health 
launched a public campaign to raise awareness on 
protection against COVID-19.
UA sponsored the annual education expenses 
of ~220 children based in SOS children's 
villages of Monaragala and Nuwara Eliya 
towards ensuring uninterrupted learning 
support during the pandemic.

129
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Other, including Information Technology and Plantation Services 
Industry Group Structure 
Information Technology 
IT Services
 y
John Keells IT (JKIT) - a boutique Information 
Technology (IT) consultancy and professional 
services organisation with a vision to simplify and 
digitally transform organisations to be relevant in 
the data-driven experience economy.
 y
Key value stacks:
 y
'JKIT Strategy' – experiencing a data-driven 
economy through design thinking.
 y
'JKIT Core' – orchestrating enterprise application 
portfolios.
 y
'JKIT Cloud' – architecturing cloud transformation.
 y
'JKIT Platform' – enabling a 'Smart' future.
 y
'JKIT Ecosystem' – driving the Application 
Programming Interface (API) economy.
IT-Enabled Services
 y
Infomate - a business process management (BPM) 
service provider with the mandate of driving 
greater efficiencies for its clientele.
 y
Key focus areas:
 y
Finance and accounting.
 y
Payroll management.
 y
Data digitisation.
Plantation Services 
 y
John Keells PLC (JK PLC) – a leading tea and rubber 
broker.
 y
Tea Smallholder Factories PLC (TSF):
 y
Operates six factories.
 y
Leading manufacturer of low grown Orthodox 
and CTC teas in the country.
 y
John Keells Warehousing (JKW) – operates a state-
of-the-art warehouse for pre-auction produce.
Other 
 y
JKH (Holding Company) and other businesses 
(Centre functions/divisions).
Inputs (Rs.million)
2021/22
2020/21
%
2019/20
Total assets
134,622 
81,241 
66 
43,096 
Total equity
54,578 
30,367 
80 
38,495 
Total debt1
72,510 
47,562 
52 
2,705 
Capital employed2
127,088 
77,930 
63 
41,200 
Employees (No.)3
1,227 
1,196 
3 
1,335 
Outputs (Rs.million)
2021/22
2020/21
%
2019/20
Turnover
4,041 
3,949 
2 
3,803 
EBIT
5,291 
2,907 
82 
1,178 
PBT
21,090 
3,291 
541 
2,817 
PAT
16,625 
2,356 
606 
2,065 
EBIT per employee
4 
2 
77 
1 
Carbon footprint (MT)
2,202 
2,543 
(13)
3,012 
1. Excludes lease liabilities.
2. Includes lease liabilities.
3. As per the sustainability reporting boundary.
Contribution to 
the John Keells Group
2%
Revenue
25%
EBIT
21%
Capital Employed
2%
Carbon Footprint

130 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Industry Group Review
Macroeconomic Update - Information Technology 
 y
Businesses continued to invest in technology to accelerate the digitisation of value chains, 
operations, and supply chains in order to capitalise the shift in consumer behaviour post-
pandemic.
 y
Partner selection and the solution/service portfolio was primarily based on the demand 
for end-to-end solutions and service providers with the requisite credentials and 
capabilities. 
 y
The solution areas in demand continued to be across core modernisation, cloud 
enablement, industry 4.0 and associated solutions, collaboration, mobility, personalisation, 
intelligent automation, advanced analytics, digital identity management, among others. 
Enhanced and deep capability in cyber security and resilience also continued to be a key 
focus area towards a secure and scalable digital platform for businesses.
 y
The IT/ business process outsourcing (BPO) sector surpassed the USD 1 billion mark in 
revenue during CY2021.
 y
The national chamber for the IT/ BPM industry in Sri Lanka aims to achieve USD 5 billion in 
annual revenue, employing over 200,000 highly skilled professionals, and launching over 
1,000 startups by CY2025.
Key Policy and Regulatory Highlights
 y
Sri Lanka commenced the development of the Galle technology park in February 2022. 
Spanning across a 30- acre site, the technology park is scheduled to be completed by CY2023. 
Technology parks are also planned at Kurunegala, Kandy, Nuwara Eliya and Habarana.
 y
The Government passed the Personal Data Protection bill in March 2022, which aims to 
protect the individual data held by Government entities and private entities, including 
private personal data aggregating and processing entities, and mandates the lawful 
processing of data, limiting retention and complying with detailed transparency and 
accountability obligations, among others.
External Environment and Operational Review 
Information Technology 
John Keells IT (JKIT) continued to accelerate its growth during the year under review by 
strengthening its global partnerships and market presence as well as by adopting prudent cost 
curtailment measures. JKIT was able further strengthen and expand on its partnerships with 
Microsoft, SAP and UiPath across Sri Lanka, Middle East, Africa and Southeast Asia which enabled 
the business to maintain its global accreditation as a 'Gold level' partner with all three entities, and 
further augment its brand and service recognition. 
Pandemic induced challenges during the year exerted pressure on the business's expansion 
strategy across international markets. As a result, Go-to-Market (GTM) partnerships and operations 
across the regions were hampered and the business proactively diverted efforts towards directly 
growing the business from Sri Lanka. 
The renewed strategy to align solutions under a broader umbrella of JKIT was received well during 
the year and measures were taken to introduce 'JKIT-Strategy', further augmenting the previous 
solutions value stacks, 'JKIT-Core', 'JKIT-Cloud', 'JKIT-Platforms', and 'JKIT-Ecosystems'. The business 
also focused on positioning JKIT as a boutique consultancy and professional services organisation 
by engaging in various curated promotional activities during the year under review.
JKIT continued to focus on delivering innovative solutions to clients by providing holistic and 
transformative solutions and services across the five value stacks of 'Strategy', 'Core', 'Cloud', 
'Platforms' and 'Ecosystems'. To this end, the business launched a multitude of IT based solutions 
integrating the value stacks to create 'Smart' platforms focused on specific industries:
 y
'Smart' Factory – An IoT (Internet of Things) 
enabled asset with an environment 
monitoring platform, that provides a series 
of solutions including receiving live updates 
on a wide spectrum of measurements, 
notifying responsible parties on anomalous 
behaviour, generating time-series prediction 
graphs, and generating customisable 
reports across a range of industry verticals.
 y
'Smart' Banking – Re-designed mobile 
banking app, providing a series of banking 
solutions such as online banking, mobile 
banking, online bill payments, debit card 
controls and mobile wallets which is backed 
by an administration portal which allows easy 
configurations and control for banks.
During the year under review, the business 
continued to leverage on solutions based on 
'Smart' platform stacks for Office, Home, Retail, 
Airport, Automotives, as outlined in detail 
under the JKH Annual Report 2020/21.
The Group's BPM operations in Sri Lanka, 
Infomate, recorded an encouraging performance 
during the year and was recognised within the 
top six BPO companies in Sri Lanka. The business 
was successful in expanding its client portfolio 
especially across Australia, the Nordic region 
and in the Middle East region. The business 
also expanded its portfolio of services offered 
to include human resource outsourcing, lead 
generation and documentation services during 
the year under review.
Awards 
 y
John Keells IT
 y
'Game Changer' award received at 
SAP King of Cluster.
 y
Automation Excellence Awards 
2021 – Sri Lanka.
 y
Azure Tech Intensity Partner of the 
Year 2021.
 y
Azure Migrate Partner of the Year 
2021.
 y
SAP on Azure Partner of the Year 
2021.
 y
Principle recognition award 
received for highest business 
generated partner on the UiPath 
platform in CY2021.
 y
Infomate certified with 'Great Place to 
Work' certification for the first time in 
its operations.
Other, including Information Technology and Plantation Services

131
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Plantation Services 
JK PLC increased its market share to 14 per cent during the year under review [2020/21: 13 per 
cent]. A notable increase in volumes of the high grown and medium grown elevations contributed 
to this improvement. JK PLC recorded a 6 per cent increase in volumes. 
Challenges stemming from adverse weather conditions, the import ban imposed on 
agrochemicals, and COVID-19 related challenges adversely impacted the tea industry during 
the year under review. Against this backdrop, production levels were unable to reach its optimal 
capacity whilst the distribution was hampered on account of global supply chain constraints and 
the challenging local economy. 
TSF recorded an 18 per cent decrease in volumes to 2,966 MT in 2021/22 [2020/21: 3,631 MT], 
primarily on account of the challenging conditions that prevailed throughout the year. During the 
year under review, the Karawita tea factory was sub-leased for a period of 10 years. Further, TSF 
continued to automate certain internal processes which led to an increase in productivity.
JKH resolved to raise funds through a private placement for 
a maximum cumulative amount of Sri Lankan Rupee (LKR) 
equivalent of USD 80 million to Asian Development Bank (ADB) 
in two phases.
Macroeconomic Update - Plantation Services 
 y
Global tea production increased by 3 per cent in CY2021 in comparison to the contraction 
recorded in CY2020. The growth in production was mainly driven by India, China, and Sri 
Lanka, although China continued to retain its position as the world's largest tea producer, 
followed by India and Kenya and Sri Lanka. Kenya noted a 7 per cent contraction in tea 
production due to adverse weather conditions.
 y
Sri Lanka recorded a 7 per cent growth in tea production to 299,338 MT during CY2021 
[CY2020: 278,489 MT] with both high grown and low grown elevations displaying a 
substantial growth over the corresponding period of CY2020. 
 y
Sri Lanka tea exports for CY2021 stood at 286.0 million kg in comparison to 265.6 million 
kg recorded in CY2020. Iraq emerged as the largest importer of Sri Lankan tea in CY2021 
recording a growth of 27 per cent followed by Turkey, Russia, United Arab Emirates (UAE), 
Iran and China. The ongoing Russia-Ukraine conflict impacted Sri Lankan tea exports from 
the onset of the war in February 2022.
 y
Given global supply-demand dynamics, average tea prices at the Colombo Tea Auction 
decreased by Rs.12.77 per kg to an average price of Rs.615.44 in CY2021 in comparison to 
the average price of Rs.628.21 in CY2020. 
 y
The Colombo Tea Traders' Association (CTTA) upgraded its online platform to an 
advanced state-of-the-art platform, 'SmartAuction', in January 2022 which provides access 
to real-time data driven features and drive efficiency.
Key Policy and Regulatory Highlights
 y
In April 2021, the Government of Sri Lanka imposed a ban on the importation of 
agrochemicals such as pesticides and weedicides, with the intention of promoting 
organic farming. Since the overnight transition to organic farming resulted in many 
challenges and disruptions, this decision was revisited. Select chemical fertilisers were 
allowed in July 2021 under a license and thereafter, the ban was lifted with effect from 30 
November 2021 onwards.
 y
Effective 5 March 2021, the daily wage of plantation workers was increased to Rs.1,000, 
entailing a basic salary of Rs.900 and a budgetary allowance of Rs.100 per day.
Other
In addition to the Information Technology 
and Plantation Services sectors, the Other, 
including Information Technology and 
Plantation Services industry group also entails 
the performance of the Holding Company and 
its various divisions. In addition to the support 
functions, the Holding Company also includes:
 y
OCTAVE, the Group's Data and Advanced 
Analytics Centre of Excellence. 
 y
John Keells Research, the research and 
development arm of the Group.
 y
John Keells X, a corporate start-up 
accelerator.
 y
'Plasticcycle', the Group's social 
entrepreneurship initiative.
 Detailed discussion of each of the above 
functions is found in the Natural Capital and 
Intellectual Capital sections of the Capital 
Management Review - page 51 and 67
Holding Company 
Due to the unprecedented circumstances 
in the external environment, the Holding 
Company continued to focus on various 
measures to ensure a sustainable and agile 
operating model, with a focused view on cash 
management and liquidity. While the Group 
had a strong cash position and availability of 
banking facilities, continued focus was placed 
on ensuring balance sheet strength to support 
the investment pipeline of the Group.
 Refer Financial Capital of the Capital 
Management Review for a detailed 
discussion - page 41
As disclosed to the Colombo Stock Exchange 
(CSE) on 22 November 2021, the Company 
resolved to raise funds through a private 
placement for a maximum cumulative amount 
of Sri Lankan Rupee (LKR) equivalent of USD 80 
million to Asian Development Bank (ADB) in 
two phases.
In January 2022, the first phase of the above 
transaction was completed where JKH issued 
65,042,006 ordinary shares at Rs.154.50 per 
share to ADB for a consideration of the LKR 
equivalent of USD 50 million, resulting in a 
post-dilution of 4.70 per cent post the first 
phase. Additionally, in terms of the second 
phase, the Company also issued non-tradable/
non-transferable options, entitling ADB to 
subscribe for additional 39,025,204 new 

132 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Industry Group Review
Other, including Information Technology and Plantation Services
ordinary shares of the Company, for an investment amount of up to a 
maximum of the LKR equivalent of USD 30 million. The options exercise 
price would be based on the volume weighted average price of the 
Company's ordinary shares as quoted on the CSE during the 90 calendar 
days ending immediately prior to the option exercise date, subject to 
the floor price of Rs.165.00 and cap price of Rs.200.00 and is exercisable 
between 19 October 2022 and 18 January 2023. On that basis, the 
maximum number of ordinary shares that would potentially be issued 
under the entire transaction, assuming all options are exercised, will be 
104,067,210, thereby capping the post-issue dilution on the conclusion 
of both phases to a maximum of 7.31 per cent.
The proceeds from this transaction will be utilised for the purpose of 
corporate level balance sheet support towards funding its investments 
in the Supermarket business and will afford the Group the flexibility and 
agility to fund its investments in an optimal manner, whilst providing 
additional support to the Group's liquidity position, particularly in 
terms of providing further leeway to manage the foreign currency 
commitments of the Group's landmark projects such as the 'Cinnamon 
Life Integrated Resort' and the West Container Terminal-1 in the Port of 
Colombo. Additionally, given ADB's investment mandate pursuant to 
which private sector projects must have clear development impacts 
and positive externalities, particularly in environmental, social and 
governance (ESG) aspects, JKH will leverage on ADB's technical expertise 
and advisory to enhance and further strengthen the Group's existing 
ESG processes and frameworks to reach best in class benchmarks.
Capital Management Review
The section that ensues discusses the performance of the industry group 
during the year under review, under the key forms of Capital applicable 
for the industry group.
Income Statement Indicators
Rs.million
2021/22
2020/21
%
Revenue 
Information Technology 
1,456 
1,088 
34
Plantation Services
2,496 
2,782 
(10)
Other
89 
79 
14
Total
4,041 
3,949 
2
 y
The Information Technology sector recorded an encouraging growth 
in revenue driven by new client acquisitions at JKIT and Infomate. 
 y
The Plantation Services sector recorded a decline in revenue 
on account of a drop in production owing to the effects of the 
prolonged fertilizer shortage arising due to the import ban imposed 
on agrochemicals which impacted the second half of the year under 
review. 
 y
The growth in revenue of the Holding Company is primarily on 
account of higher commercial income and legal fees from equity 
accounted investees. 
Financial and Manufactured Capital
Rs.million
2021/22
2020/21
%
EBITDA*
Information Technology 
451 
368 
23
Plantation Services
285 
369 
(23)
Other
 4,753 
 2,363 
101
Total
 5,489 
 3,100 
77
PBT
Information Technology 
518 
350 
48
Plantation Services
170 
249 
(32)
Other
20,402 
2,692 
658
Total 
21,090 
3,291 
541
*Note that EBITDA includes interest income but excludes all impacts from foreign 
currency exchange gains and losses, to demonstrate the underlying cash operational 
performance of businesses.
 y
The EBITDA of the industry group recorded a significant increase 
in lieu of the Holding Company. The Holding Company recorded 
higher interest income mainly due to an increase in cash and cash 
equivalents as a result of the entire USD 175 million term loan facility 
from the IFC being available throughout the current financial year 
as opposed to approximately six to nine months of the previous 
financial year.
 y
The PBT of the Holding Company recorded a significant increase 
due to exchange gains recorded on its net foreign currency cash 
holdings:
 y
The foreign currency cash holdings includes the funds earmarked 
for the equity infusions of the 'Cinnamon Life Integrated 
Resort' project and the funds raised for the Group's investment 
pipeline via the debt drawdown from the International Finance 
Corporation (IFC) term loan facility and the private placement of 
ordinary shares to ADB.
 y
The growth in profitability at the Information Technology sector was 
driven by the increase in revenue, whilst stringent cost savings also 
aided the business in navigating through cost pressures.
 y
Profitability in the Plantation Services sector decreased in line with 
the aforementioned decline in revenue. Performance was also 
impacted by a bad debt provision for debtors at John Keells PLC 
considering the stresses faced by tea producers, which distorts the 
year-on-year comparison. 
 y
The industry group recorded fair value gains on investment property 
(IP) of Rs.81 million which stemmed from the Plantation Services 
sector and investments at the Holding Company [2020/21: Rs.18 
million].
 y
The significant foreign currency exchange gain at the Holding 
Company will be taxed upon realisation as per the current tax 
regulations. A deferred tax provision amounting to Rs.3.21 billion was 
recognised in 2021/22.
 y
On a recurring basis, the aforementioned fair value gain on IP and the 
deferred tax provision at the Holding Company has been excluded. 
Accordingly, recurring EBITDA and recurring PAT for the industry 
group amounted to Rs.5.41 billion and Rs.958 million during 2021/22 
respectively [2020/21: Rs.3.08 billion and Rs.677 million respectively].

133
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
The Group recognises the strong inter-linkage between natural 
resources and the plantation industry in Sri Lanka, and thus continues 
to manage its Natural Capital efficiently and effectively. The continuous 
collaborations of the Plantation Services sector with international 
conservation bodies whilst adopting international best practice and 
standards has engrained sustainability throughout its supply chains. 
These measures aid the businesses to effectively implement eco-
friendly agricultural practices whilst continually aligning with modern 
agricultural operations. 
The Information Technology (IT) sector and the Centre Functions 
ensures its operations are aligned with the Group's Environmental 
policies. The IT sector continues to identify potential avenues for 
energy-efficient solutions, in order to enhance process efficiencies by 
regularly monitoring activities with the objective of energy conservation. 
The industry group ensures that e-waste generated is disposed in 
compliance with Group policies, in a responsible manner to minimise 
any impacts on the environment. 
Natural Capital
Energy and emissions management
Relevance: Financial, regulatory and brand reputation 
implications
Approach
 y
Implementing and improving energy efficiency. 
 y
Use of renewable energy sources.
 y
Alignment with international standards and best 
practice.
Initiatives
 y
Replacement of existing fluorescent lamps with 
LED lighting on an ongoing basis at TSF, leading to 
savings in energy consumption. 
 y
~5.3 million kWh of renewable energy utilised 
through the generation of solar power by JKW and 
utilisation of biomass at TSF. 
 y
Tea dryer inlet temperature was maintained by 
installing a cyclone type drier and renovating the 
furnace at Neluwa tea factory, resulting in efficient 
energy usage and minimising risk of fire related 
hazards.
 y
TSF conducted awareness sessions for its employees 
on the topic of energy conservation at tea factories.
Waste and effluent management
Relevance: Regulatory and brand reputation implications
Approach
 y
Compliance with all regulatory requirements in 
relation to responsible waste disposal.
Initiatives
 y
The main road surrounding the tea broking 
warehouse was reconstructed using plastic modified 
asphalt concrete which constituted of 400 kg of 
plastic waste. 
 y
Disposal of all wastewater from factories and 
biomass combustion continued to be in line with 
environmental protection license (EPL) requirements.
 y
Disposal of e-waste and wastepaper through certified 
recyclers. 
Indicators
Carbon Footprint (MT)
2020/21
13%
2021/22
2,202
2,543
120
Information 
Technology
1,952
Plantation 
Services
130
Other
Carbon 
Footprint (MT) 
Balance Sheet Indicators
Rs.million
2021/22
2020/21
%
Debt
Information Technology 
63 
61 
2
Plantation Services
311 
304 
2
Other
72,136 
47,197 
53
Total
72,510 
47,562 
52
Net Debt/(Cash)*
Information Technology 
(2,389)
(1,245)
92
Plantation Services
(85)
(0)
28,787
Other
(40,095)
(22,324)
80
Total
(42,569)
(23,569)
81
*Net debt is arrived by subtracting the Holding Company's total cash and cash 
equivalents, including its short-term investments from its total debt.
 y
Borrowings of the Holding Company increased during the year due 
to an increase in LKR borrowings in line with the planned funding 
strategy of the Company. Whilst borrowings noted a 53 per cent 
increase, on a net debt basis, the Holding Company recorded an 80 
per increase amounting to Rs.39.83 billion. This is primarily due to 
the increase in cash from the private placement of ordinary shares to 
ADB for a consideration of the LKR equivalent of USD 50 million. 
 y
The increase in debt of the Information Technology and Plantation 
Services sectors are attributable to an increase in bank overdrafts to 
manage working capital requirements.

134 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Industry Group Review
Other, including Information Technology and Plantation Services
Indicators
Waste Disposed (kg ‘000)
2020/21
18%
2021/22
148
181
Note: Waste generated excludes the Information Technology and Other sectors as it is 
not considered material.
Carbon footprint scope 1 and 2 per operational intensity factor
2021/22
2020/21
TSF PLC CO2 (kg per kg of tea produced)
0.60
0.56 
JK PLC & JKW CO2 (kg per sq.ft. of floor area)
1.0
1.0 
As a service-oriented industry, emphasis is placed on effective 
management of Human Capital, through continuous career 
development and skill enhancement of employees. 
During the year under review, the businesses continued to operate within 
the COVID-19 safety guidelines, whilst also facilitating 'work from home' 
options to selected staff categories. Further, workplace safety such as 
sanitation practices were implemented whilst creating awareness and 
adhering to health and safety conditions within regulatory guidelines.
The IT sector in collaboration with universities and other educational 
institutions strives to attract talent and create a pipeline of high calibre 
employees in the long-term whilst regularly investing in professional 
training and development of existing employees. 
The IT sector continued to provide a safe working environment by 
ensuring safe commute of employees by facilitating travel arrangements 
where applicable. TSF factories continued to monitor working conditions 
to ensure a safe working environment for its employees whilst adhering 
to relevant health and safety practices. 
Human Capital 
Injuries (Number)
2020/21
2021/22
4
0
Training (Hours)
2020/21
158%
2021/22
5,795
14,953
613
Information 
Technology
454
Plantation 
Services
160
Other
Number of 
Employees 
Health and safety
Relevance: HR related risks directly affect brand 
reputation and employee well-being and have a direct 
impact on the long-term sustainability of the business
Approach
 y
Maintaining health and safety related processes and 
practices. 
 y
Training and creating awareness.
Initiatives
 y
TSF conducted 14 fire evacuation drills and 
demonstrations at factories.
 y
The ISO 22000:2005 certificate was maintained at TSF 
factories, achieving zero product quality claims and 
improving product safety in terms of good hygiene 
practises.
 y
Maintenance of the ISO 45001:2018 certification 
 y
Conducting frequent assessments of risks and 
hazards associated in the manufacturing process, 
resulting in fewer accidents and lower attrition.
 y
Conducted COVID-19 awareness sessions for 
employees on health and safety guidelines.
Talent management 
Relevance: Training and development directly affects 
brand reputation and employee well-being whilst aiding 
hiring, retaining, motivating, and enhancing skills of 
employees
Approach
 y
Attracting and retaining High Potential Individuals 
(HIPO).
 y
Developing a resource base of qualified professionals 
by partnering with universities.
Initiatives
 y
Continuous training and skill development of 
employees, providing ~eight hours of training per 
employee.
 y
John Keells IT (JKIT) in collaboration with higher 
education institutes offered internships to graduates.
 y
Training was provided to JKIT employees on specific 
expertise in order to further enhance skills. 
 y
JKIT continued its 'Formula 1 - Graduate Placement' 
programme with the aim of attracting graduates and 
providing training on specific areas. 

135
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
The industry group prioritises social responsibility and focuses on 
conducting operations in a beneficial manner for the respective local 
communities within which it operates. 
The community is an integral part of the supply chain in the Plantation 
Services sector, and it is vital to build trust and mutually beneficial 
relationships between stakeholders. CSR initiatives were carried out at 
a business level as well as through John Keells Foundation (JKF) which 
nurtured such relationships. 
The IT sector continued its long-term commitment on promoting 
ICT-related training and employment opportunities for youth in 
underprivileged communities, enabling alternative livelihoods via 
satellite business process outsourcing (BPO) centres. This strategic 
initiative aids in building a strong and sustained recruitment 
pipeline of skilled talent whilst also contributing towards sustained 
economic and social benefits within the community, such as 
improved employability and sustainable income opportunities 
for the youth. A total of 45 associates were engaged in providing 
BPO services out of Mahavilachchiya (North Central Province), 
Seenigama (Southern Province) and Jaffna (Northern Province) to 
selected Group businesses through Infomate while continuing 
to be supported through technical and soft skills training and 
motivational activities during the reporting year.
Social and Relationship Capital 
Associates of Seenigama BPO at work
Community and value chain engagement
Relevance: Such engagements mitigate operational and 
reputational risks, foster sustainable relationships, sharing 
knowledge and best practice
Approach
 y
Development of sustainable agricultural practices. 
 y
Building and maintaining relationships with tea 
smallholder communities.
 y
Creating sustainable income opportunities for youth.
Initiatives
 y
Aligning operations to the requirement of the 
Rainforest Alliance certification by enhancing and 
promoting sustainable agriculture of 2,794 green leaf 
suppliers
 y
Commenced the 9th phase of TSF's tea replanting 
project aiding 20 green leaf suppliers by supplying 
65,000 tea plants over 14.75 acres of land. 
 y
Initiatives carried out by TSF to aid suppliers and local 
communities affected by floods within the business 
area:
 y
Distribution of drinking water among 329 flood 
victims residing in Hiniduma and Thawalama 
villages
 y
Cleaning of 29 submerged wells in six villages 
in collaboration with JKF, directly benefiting 200 
persons.
 y
79 high-performing school children in Galle and 
Ratnapura were awarded English and IT scholarships 
under the 'English for Teens' initiative of JKF's English 
Language Scholarship Programme.
 y
TSF conducted an annual blood donation campaign 
at Halwitigala and Kurupanawa with the participation 
of 97 donors. 
 y
TSF organised a Dengue Awareness Programme for 
residents living in Kahawatta, Hingalgoda, Neluwa, 
Thawalama and Nagoda Waduraba areas.
 y
Infomate, in collaboration with JKF and the 
Foundation for Advancing Rural Opportunity (FARO), 
continued its long-term strategic Rural BPO Initiative 
aimed at outsourcing identified invoicing functions 
of the Group to three satellite BPO units in various 
parts of the country for the 14th consecutive year. A 
majority of shareholder-associates of the three BPOs 
comprise of young women. 
 y
45 disadvantaged youth from Mahavilachchiya, 
Seenigama and Jaffna were employed under this 
initiative and an intensive series of technical and 
soft skills trainings as well as motivational activities 
were carried out during the reporting year. 
Significant Suppliers - Information Technology Sector and Other
 y
Strategic software partners
 y
Expert skill/ knowledge partners
 y
Outsourced operational functions 
 y
Outsourced support staff 
 y
Janitors and security 
 y
Transportation providers 
Significant Suppliers - Plantation Services Sector 
 y
Tea smallholder farmers 
 y
Tea plantations

136 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Outlook
Macroeconomic Outlook
Global Context
The International Monetary Fund (IMF) projects the global economy to grow at 3.6 per cent each 
in CY2022 and CY2023, and taper thereafter to 3.3 per cent, which is a notable slowdown against 
the growth of 6.1 per cent recorded in CY2021. The slowdown is projected primarily on the back 
of the spill-over effects of the Russia-Ukraine crisis on the global economy, tightening monetary 
policy, volatility in global commodity markets, disruptions to trade flows, substantial supply chain 
disruptions, aggregate demand-supply imbalances and inflationary pressures. Downside risks to 
the outlook include the potential aggravation of the Russia-Ukraine crisis, a higher deceleration in 
China than envisaged and potential resurgences of the pandemic. 
IMF Growth Projections
IMF Growth Projections
Global
Economy
Global
Economy
Advanced
Economies
Advanced
Economies
Emerging Markets and
Developing Economies
Emerging Markets and
Developing Economies
Emerging and
Developing Asia
Emerging and
Developing Asia
(%)
(%)
6.1
(3.3)
(4.7)
(2.2)
(1.0)
5.2
3.6
3.3
3.6
2.4
6.8
7.3
5.4
5.6
3.8
4.4
0
2
4
6
8
CY21
CY20
CY22 CY23
CY21
CY20
CY22 CY23
CY21
CY20
CY22 CY23
CY21
CY20
CY22 CY23
Source: World Economic Outlook April 2022, International Monetary Fund. 
Sri Lankan Context
The Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL) projects the Sri Lankan economy to grow at a moderate pace 
in the near-term on the back of ongoing macroeconomic instability emanating from both the 
external financing and fiscal sector challenges, political uncertainty and social unrest. The growth 
prospects for CY2022 remain lacklustre as the escalation of the domestic energy crisis, rising 
commodity prices and the cost of living together with the effects of fiscal and monetary policy 
tightening will disrupt economic activity. Accordingly, the CBSL forecasts economic growth for 
CY2022 at 1 per cent [CY2021: 3.7 per cent]. 
In contrast, the Asian Development Bank (ADB) forecasts Sri Lanka's economic growth to slow to 
2.4 per cent in CY2022 and improve marginally to 2.5 per cent in CY2023, whilst the IMF forecasts 
Sri Lanka's economy to grow at 2.6 per cent in CY2022. The World Bank has stated that Sri Lanka's 
economic outlook is highly uncertain due to the fiscal and external imbalances that the country is 
currently facing, and hence, has withdrawn all growth forecasts on Sri Lanka.
CY2022 Growth Projections for Sri Lanka
CY2022 Growth Projections for Sri Lanka
(%)
(%)
1.0
2.4
2.6
CBSL
ADB
IMF
World Bank
All forecasts withdrawn
The section that ensues entails a discussion of the Group's approach 
to navigating through the current macroeconomic landscape and 
the political and social volatility. The section highlights industry-
specific implications as well as the outlook beyond.
Despite the short-term slowdown, ongoing 
efforts of the CBSL to resolve economic 
issues, including the suspension of external 
debt servicing by the Government for an 
interim period pending the adoption of a 
debt restructuring programme, assurances 
to adopt much needed structural reforms 
on the fiscal front, adoption of market driven 
policies, transparency in communication, 
and engagement with the IMF for an 
economic adjustment programme, coupled 
with continued political and economic 
diplomacy, among others, are expected to 
restore macroeconomic stability and facilitate 
the economy to gather momentum over 
the medium-term. Such measures are also 
expected to augur well for tourism, exports 
and inward workers' remittances. Downside 
risks to this outlook are primarily on the 
political and social front, where growth is 
likely to be conditional on re-establishing 
political stability, securing the supply of 
essential commodity items and addressing 
and managing the social instability. At the 
time of writing this Report, there is some level 
of political stability, with the appointment of a 
new Prime Minister and a Cabinet of Ministers. 
A potential resurgence of the pandemic 
may also pose significant challenges to the 
country's growth trajectory, although this is 
expected to be largely contained due to the 
adult population of Sri Lanka being almost 
entirely fully vaccinated. 
Attracting foreign direct 
investment to strengthen the 
external sector resilience and 
monetising underutilised and 
inefficient non-strategic assets 
is also much needed to ensure 
stability on the external sector, 
and to this end, labour market 
reforms, tax reforms and 
ensuring law and order, free of 
corruption, and transparency is 
critical.

137
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Looking beyond these short-
term challenges, with the 
appropriate policy response, 
the economy is envisaged to 
gather growth momentum 
in the medium-term. Hence, 
the underlying prospects for 
the economy are positive with 
growth expected to be driven 
by higher exports, expansion 
of the services sectors and the 
potential for higher foreign 
inflows. The revival of the 
tourism sector will be a key 
driver of economic growth 
considering the 'pent-up' 
demand that is evident even at 
this stage for leisure travel.
Although the CBSL adopted monetary policy 
tightening since August 2021, this was more 
pronounced with the 700-basis point increase 
in key policy rates in April 2022, which was 
adopted with the aim of addressing the 
inflationary environment which was driven 
by many factors including increases in global 
commodity prices, food supply and the sharp 
depreciation of the currency in March 2022. The 
contractionary monetary policy stance of the 
CBSL should contain demand side inflationary 
pressures and anchor expectations, once 
the supply chain disruptions ease, although 
impacting economic growth and private sector 
credit growth. However, such measures would 
aid in containing the demand for imports, 
stabilising the external value of the domestic 
currency in the short to medium-term and 
attracting productive investment.
In CY2019, prior to the outbreak of the 
COVID-19 pandemic, the Government 
implemented various tax relief measures such 
as reductions in the value added tax (VAT) rate, 
removal of taxes such as the nation building 
tax (NBT), and withdrawal of advance tax 
collection mechanisms such as withholding 
tax (WHT), pay as you earn (PAYE) tax and 
economic service charge (ESC) in order to 
boost consumption. However, given the 
current macroeconomic challenges and the 
need to increase Government revenue, the 
CBSL and the Finance Ministry has intimated 
that a contractionary fiscal policy may be 
warranted at this juncture in time, which is 
also envisaged to exert further pressure on 
consumption and discretionary spending. 
Multiple rating downgrades of the sovereign credit rating by all rating agencies citing its 
worsening external liquidity position, weakening fiscal outlook and the temporary suspension of 
external debt servicing obligations heightened concerns on the country's economy during the 
year. As outlined above, the CBSL has implemented some measures to address these concerns, 
and such positive steps together with the necessary reforms and fiscal consolidation measures 
are envisaged to restore public debt sustainability and market confidence in the country. In 
addition to the depreciation of the currency, 2021/22 was also characterised by notable challenges 
in foreign exchange markets, on the back of a marked reduction in liquidity amidst declining 
confidence, a pegged exchange rate not reflective of market rates and the depletion of foreign 
currency reserves in the country. Attracting foreign direct investment (FDI) to strengthen the 
external sector resilience and monetising underutilised and inefficient non-strategic assets is also 
much needed to ensure stability on the external sector, and to this end, labour market reforms, tax 
reforms and ensuring law and order, free of corruption, and transparency is critical, although there 
will be immediate-term priorities, as discussed, which need to be addressed. The prevailing foreign 
currency shortage in the market however is likely to place further pressure on supply chains in the 
country in the immediate-term and, unless the ability to establish trade facilities improve, there 
could be disruptions to economic activity and business performance. 
It is pertinent to note that the CBSL has rolled-out various measures to further ensure external 
sector stability. This entails short-term measures such as easing of restrictions on mandatory 
conversion of proceeds of exports of goods and services, measures to encourage workers' 
remittances; medium-term measures such as initiating comprehensive macroeconomic reforms 
consistent with an economic adjustment programme supported by the IMF, strengthening 
regional cooperation, engaging with financiers on improving the gross official reserves position; 
and long-term measures such as adopting necessary reforms to attract FDI. Against this backdrop 
and successful implementation of some of these measures, the exchange rate could regain 
stability once confidence is restored, although short-term pressures can be expected until such 
time the acute liquidity issues and back log of trade and other payables is cleared.
The ensuing few weeks and the next couple of months are envisioned to be crucial in 
understanding the direction of the economy. The Finance Ministry has stated that the country is 
currently in need of over USD 4 billion to manage its economic constraints and to this end, the 
CBSL has been engaging with international institutions such as the IMF and the World Bank and 
supportive nations such as India and China for financial assistance. The country has been able to 
secure transitory bridging financing with significant support from India and adopt other measures 
to attempt to address the current challenges such as: 
 y
Various relief measures from India such as a USD 1 billion credit line, USD 500 million of financial 
assistance and the extension of the duration of a USD 400 million currency swap.
 y
USD 600 million of financial aid from the World Bank. 
 y
Financial assistance from the Asian Development Bank (ADB) for emergency medical supplies. 
 y
Donation of essential medical equipment from countries such as India, China and Indonesia, 
among others.
For the aforementioned recovery to take place, policy measures and action as conveyed by the 
CBSL will need to align alongside social and political stability. In this regard, technical discussions 
with the IMF are in progress and expectations are that a staff level agreement can be reached 
within a few months. The ability to showcase a roadmap to economic recovery and demonstrate 
the commitment to reach debt sustainability through reforms and negotiations is an important 
precursor to the successful conclusion of IMF discussions.
Gradual clarity on the progress with the IMF, debt restructure, bridge financing and politics, is likely 
to improve the outlook for Sri Lanka going forward.
Looking beyond these short-term challenges, with the appropriate policy response, the economy 
is envisaged to gather growth momentum in the medium-term. Hence, the underlying prospects 
for the economy are positive with growth expected to be driven by higher exports, expansion of 
the services sectors and the potential for higher foreign inflows. The revival of the tourism sector will 
be a key driver of economic growth considering the 'pent-up' demand that is evident even at this 
stage for leisure travel. Tourism is an area where Sri Lanka can capitalise on its potential within a short 
period of time, particularly given the proximity to a significant tourism source market such as India. 

138 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Outlook
The Group has always primarily 
engaged with the policymakers 
and the country's leadership 
through the respective 
committees of the Chamber 
and various forums and will 
continue to do so, ensuring 
that engagement is managed 
in the overall interests of the 
economy and the business 
environment as opposed to the 
interests of a single company.
Whilst there will be short-term challenges 
given the current situation as outlined above, 
the Group remains confident that Sri Lanka's 
growth prospects in the medium to long-term 
remain positive, as outlined in the ensuing 
Industry Group Strategy and Outlook section.
COVID-19 Developments in Sri Lanka
The COVID-19 pandemic was well contained 
in Sri Lanka in CY2020 and CY2021, where 
the outbreak of clusters since inception was 
proactively identified and managed by the 
Government and health authorities. The country's 
vaccination drive since late January 2021 has also 
proved successful, where almost the entirety of 
the adult population was fully vaccinated with 
two doses by November 2021. This has also 
contributed immensely to the containment of 
the COVID-19 pandemic, with the daily cases 
and mortality rates noting a significant decline. 
Whilst new variants have emerged globally, the 
risk of an outbreak of serious cases is expected 
to be contained given the high vaccination 
rates, including the administration of the third 
vaccination dose as a booster. 
McKinsey & Company envisages that an 
effective vaccine roll-out is key to contain the 
impacts of the pandemic and restore consumer 
demand to pre-pandemic levels, fuelled by 
rising consumer confidence, pent-up demand, 
and accumulated savings. 
Developments on the Social and 
Political Fronts
Shortages of essential food items, gas and 
fuel, record inflation and regular power 
outages, coupled with prolonged calls for 
transparency and accountability that went 
unheeded, have increased the prominence of 
democratic expressions and peaceful protests 
across the country, with increased calls for the 
representatives of the people to act with the 
highest standards of governance and integrity. 
The political and social uncertainly in the country reached a peak on 9 May 2022, when the 
peaceful protests being held were disrupted causing retaliatory violence and uncertainty for a 
few days. The Prime Minister resigned on the same day which resulted in the Government being 
dissolved. At the time of writing this Report, the situation in the country is calm with some level 
of political stability with the appointment of a new Prime Minister and a commitment from 
most political parties to support progressive reforms and the necessary policies to deal with the 
economic situation in the country. 
The need for the leadership of the country to take decisive action is more pronounced. While 
the necessary initial steps for economic recovery are being taken at this juncture, all key political 
parties should reach consensus on the critical next steps to ensure the actions required to 
revive the economy are taken in a decisive and expeditious manner following due process. The 
parties also need to be conscious of the possibility of continued social unrest if the calls for good 
governance and accountability by the people, are not facilitated in a manner that ensures a 
sustainable solution. 
Group Outlook
The recent developments on the economic, social and political fronts in the country, has 
undoubtedly created a challenging landscape for the Group to operate within in the short-term. 
This has been further exacerbated by challenges surrounding global commodity prices, inflation 
and sourcing which have created pressure on supply chains globally. 
Pressure on margins due to increasing raw material costs, particularly given the inflationary 
environment at present despite the strong monetary policy action in April 2022, is likely to 
continue in the short-term and the businesses will take all necessary measures, including cost and 
portfolio optimisation strategies, to mitigate this impact to the extent possible. Any interventions 
in line with the CBSL's fiscal consolidation efforts may also pose challenges for Group businesses, 
further exacerbating impacts on performance. 
On the external sector, uncertainty and disruptions in the foreign exchange market has also 
created some uncertainty and volatility, although the strong balance sheet of the Group and 
cash reserves aided in navigating the past periods. Foreign exchange liquidity in the domestic 
market was at a record low in CY2021 resulting in a significant depletion of gross official reserves 
and inadequate foreign exchange to meet the demands for essential imports, such as fuel, gas, 
medicine, and essential food items. Whilst this position is yet to improve despite some policy 
responses, the securing of bridging financing will be critical to restore confidence. The lag in 
recovery of the acute shortage of forex liquidity is envisaged to hamper supply chains of the 
country, thereby exerting pressure on select Group businesses as well. 
Despite these short-term instabilities, growth in consumption and trade in this region,  
including Sri Lanka, is expected to pick-up in the medium and long-term supported by 
strong under-penetration in many industries the Group operates in as well as the underlying 
fundamentals of such industries. Against this backdrop, the Group is confident of the medium to 
long-term prospects of the industries it operates in; a sustained recovery can be expected once  
the requisite policy measures and economic action are taken to achieve economic stability.
Given that social and political stability are prerequisites for economic growth, the Group will 
continue to play its part towards supporting the recovery of the economy and enabling and 
encouraging the future generations to build a stronger and better governed Sri Lanka. To this end, 
it is noted that the Group has always primarily engaged with the policymakers and the country's 
leadership through the respective committees of the Chamber and various forums and will 
continue to do so, ensuring that engagement is managed in the overall interests of the economy 
and the business environment as opposed to the interests of a single company.
It is pertinent to note that the degree of impact of the ongoing crisis and uncertainty on 
businesses will be divergent. The impact on businesses such as Supermarkets, where consumer 
baskets comprise of household necessities, personal care and other household items, is more 
insulated in comparison to an industry group such as Consumer Foods. As such, for greater clarity, 
the envisaged impact of the ongoing crisis on each of the industry groups is discussed in detail in 
the ensuing section.

139
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Whilst it is premature to ascertain the overall impact of the situation in the country as at the 
date of this Report and the scale of the impact, in any event, the Group remains confident of the 
underlying fundamentals of the industries it operates in. 
Initiatives Aimed at Managing the Group Cash and Liquidity Position
Given the ongoing challenging landscape, the Group will continue to evaluate its resilience under 
various stress-tested scenarios. The Group will also continue to follow the various processes, 
frameworks and measures undertaken in the previous years to ensure a sustainable and agile 
operating model, with a focused view on cash management and liquidity. The need for such 
scrutiny is more pronounced, given the current challenging landscape and hence, Group 
businesses will continue to:
 y
Use weekly dashboards, which cover financial and non-financial key performance indicators 
(KPIs), including monitoring of weekly cash and collections targets.
 y
Leverage on 'cash war rooms' and 'spend control towers' to critically review each and every 
spend item, prioritise payments, and impose clear reporting metrics.
 y
Effect stringent expense control measures, subject to further review depending on the macro 
and operating environment.
 y
Re-evaluate the need for capital expenditure plans at this juncture in time and defer such 
investments as needed to coincide with the recovery trajectory to ensure sustainable returns to 
all stakeholders. 
While the current liquidity position of the Group is sufficient to manage current and future 
commitments as planned, the Group will continue to take proactive steps with the view of 
maintaining a strong balance sheet, particularly considering the volatile macroeconomic 
environment and continued uncertainty. 
Insights – Managing the Group's Foreign Currency Exposure 
Managing the Group's exposure to foreign currency fluctuations is of utmost priority given 
the ongoing challenges in the macroeconomy. A continued steep depreciation of the Rupee 
may have implications on the Group's financial position, if not optimally managed:
 y
Gross debt will record a significant increase, particularly given the USD 175 million long-term 
loan facility from the International Finance Corporation (IFC) at the Holding Company and 
the USD 225 million long-term loan facility and a six-month bridging facility of USD 100 
million at Waterfront Properties (Private) Limited.
 y
However, the impact will be offset to the extent of the foreign currency denominated 
cash held at the Holding Company. The foreign currency cash holdings as at the date of 
this Report, include the funds earmarked for the equity infusions of the 'Cinnamon Life 
Integrated Resort' project and the funds raised for the Group's investment pipeline via 
the debt drawdown from the IFC term loan facility and the private placement of ordinary 
shares to ADB. 
 y
It is pertinent to note that the pressures on the Group Income Statement from the 
exchange rate exposure arising from the 'Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort' project is 
mitigated to a large extent as the functional currency of Waterfront Properties (Private) 
Limited, its project company, is US Dollars. Similarly, at present, there is no foreign 
exchange translation risk on the IFC loan since the cash is retained in foreign currency at 
the Holding Company.
 y
The Group will continue to manage its foreign currency portfolio and investment pipeline 
optimally, by matching liabilities against corresponding assets and foreign currency 
denominated revenue streams, where possible, particularly given the ongoing constraints 
in the domestic foreign currency markets.
Interventions to Aid Employees in the 
Current Challenging Landscape
Cognizant of the economic hardships faced 
by the people of the country and Group 
employees on account of rising prices and 
the scarcity of essential items, the Group is in 
the process of rolling out various initiatives 
and programmes in the form of non-financial 
and indirect financial interventions to support 
Group employees. Given that employees 
are a vital part of the value creation model 
for Group businesses, the Group will focus 
on supporting employees during this time 
of strife whilst striking a balance with the 
challenging business circumstances and 
financial impacts.
To this end, the Group provided a one-off, 
uniform financial care package in the form 
of an ex-gratia payment, to all eligible Group 
employees during the month of April 2022. 
This care package is intended to assist the 
John Keells employees in bridging the gap 
in the costs of basic essential items and 
epitomises one of the core Values of the 
Group - Caring. The Group also launched a 
series of video tutorials on its learning platform 
to educate employees on improving their 
financial literacy and managing personal 
finances. Awareness sessions and webinars on 
managing finances in the current economic 
climate, emotional support with counsellors 
and employee supplier catalogues are some 
such initiatives which are currently underway.
It is also pertinent to note that the ongoing 
macroeconomic landscape has also posed 
challenges in human resources, with the issue 
of human capital flight and brain drain. The 
Group continues to make conscious efforts 
to retain talent through recognition and 
reward frameworks, as morefully described 
in the Human Capital section of the Capital 
Management Review. 
Emphasis on the Group's Advanced 
Analytics and Transformation Journey
OCTAVE, the Data and Advanced Analytics 
Centre of Excellence of the Group has made 
strong progress and is expected to continue 
to lay the platform for the Group's advanced 
analytics transformation journey. Further 
to the initial pilots of select 'use cases' in 
Consumer Foods, Retail and Financial Services, 
which indicated strong signs of significant 
value that can be unlocked from translating 
advanced analytics insights into front line 

140 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Outlook
The Group is committed 
to providing a working 
environment where all 
employees, partners, suppliers 
and other stakeholders are 
included, their diversity is 
embraced and where their 
contributions are valued.
business interventions, and the roll-out of the 
aforementioned 'use cases' which has yielded 
promising results and indicate anticipated 
benefits to the businesses will be met, the 
Group will continue to extend its efforts within 
these verticals. 
OCTAVE will continue to source requisite 
talent to ensure in-house expertise and will 
also focus on ramping up the development 
of 'use cases' independently which is aimed 
at developing internal capability towards 
sustaining an advanced analytics practice in 
the Group. 
Processes and Frameworks Already 
Institutionalised 
The numerous challenges the Group has faced 
since the Easter Sunday attacks in April 2019, 
and subsequently the COVID-19 outbreaks 
in Sri Lanka, have imparted learnings and 
accumulated experience for the Group in 
better navigating the ongoing and potential 
constraints. Such constraints have offered 
insights to business resilience through 
investments in technology and processes 
and also highlighted the need to manage 
our people in an agile work environment. 
Careful planning and oversight to enable 
Group businesses to adapt as the situation 
evolves, whilst managing liquidity and 
financing is of pivotal importance and the 
Group will continue to capitalise on such 
opportunities to ensure continued agility and 
resilience through the ongoing environment. 
Additionally, better clarity on consumer and 
market behaviour during periods of stress will 
better equip Group businesses in responding 
to evolving consumer preferences. 
Focus on Diversity, Equity and Inclusion 
The Group recognises the importance of diversity, equity and inclusion (DE&I) and the role it plays 
in ensuring workplace respect, organisational success and sustainability for all stakeholders. In 
this regard, the Group is committed to providing a working environment where all employees, 
partners, suppliers and other stakeholders are included, their diversity is embraced and where their 
contributions are valued. In this regard, the Group will continue to focus on:
 y
Building a diverse workforce for the future through attraction and retention policies aimed at 
diverse categories of employees.
 y
Ensuring Group practices enable equitable and meritocratic opportunities to employees for 
recruitment, development and progression.
 y
Integrating diversity into talent management strategy, including targeted strategies aimed at 
specific groups, setting internal goals and targets, and practices to improve flexibility in working 
arrangements and work-life balance.
 y
Providing a safe working environment where employees are treated with fairness and respect 
free from discriminatory, exclusionary and/or harassing behaviours. 
 y
Empowering employees to be themselves by creating a working environment where 
employees feel that their gender, background, sexual orientation, lifestyle and disability, among 
others, do not affect perceptions of them as professionals or as individuals.
 y
Building empathy and respect for employees of all backgrounds and providing training and 
awareness building to tackle sources of conscious or unconscious bias. 
 y
Supporting and developing of a diverse set of business and supply chain partners.
As noted in the JKH Annual Report 2020/21, the Group has set itself a goal to increase female 
participation in the workforce to 40 per cent by 2025/26. As at 31 March 2022, this stood at 
33 per cent. 
The Group will make every effort to attract suitably qualified talent to the Group's workforce 
in furtherance of this goal. However, it is pertinent to note that whilst the Group is of the 
view that diversity ranging across demographic attributes, backgrounds, experiences and 
social networks improve Group performance, providing diverse connections with the 
external environment, the Group is also conscious of the need to maintain a strong culture of 
meritocracy, ensuring that diversity does not come at the expense of performance.
Added Focus on Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Aspects
The Group is of the view that emphasis on ESG fosters a 360-degree analysis of performance and 
enables a sustainable business model, which can derive value to all stakeholders. Various measures 
have been, and are, in place, to ensure a holistic view of performance including managing scarce 
natural resources, enhancing the well-being of all stakeholders and ensuring effective governance 
mechanisms. 
The Group will stay abreast of developments in this regard and continue to integrate ESG elements 
with business strategy, operations and in reporting. The Group will also continue to leverage 
on expertise from its partners such as ADB and IFC to further enhance the Group's existing ESG 
processes and frameworks to reach best in class benchmarks.

141
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Insights
The Group has been on an investment heavy cycle in the recent past, where significant capital 
has been deployed in Group businesses which paves the way for transformative growth into 
the future. 
Despite the unprecedented events over the last three years, which significantly impacted 
the performance of our portfolio, these investments have continued steadfastly; while the 
investments had short-term impacts on performance over the last couple of years on account 
of related expenses, disruptions and gestation periods, the long-term benefits are now 
translating to significant performance impacts in the relevant businesses, particularly due to 
offsetting impacts on account of disruptions across three consecutive years (from the Easter 
Sunday terror attacks in April 2019 to the COVID-19 pandemic thereafter).
As evident from the recurring performance analysis, the Group has witnessed a strong 
recovery momentum during the year under review with the recurring performance of most of 
our businesses reaching pre-COVID-19 levels. Notwithstanding the challenges of the current 
environment which may impact the performance of the Group in the short-term, the Group 
has laid a strong platform for growth and is now poised to fully benefit from the investments 
in building capacity, capability and process efficiency as these come to fruition in the ensuing 
year, and beyond.
 2021/22  2020/21  2019/20  2018/19* 
YoY Change (%)
Rs.million
 FY22  FY21  FY20 
Recurring EBITDA
Transportation 
6,141 
3,610 
4,375 
4,598 
70 
(17)
(5)
Consumer Foods 
3,485 
3,318 
3,366 
2,864 
5 
(1)
18 
Retail 
7,549 
5,523 
5,108 
2,988 
37 
8 
71 
Leisure 
3,785 
(3,588)
2,306 
5,431 
205 
(256)
(58)
Property 
7,867 
(17)
641 
378 45,451 
(103)
70 
Financial Services 
5,024 
3,645 
2,988 
3,359 
38 
22 
(11)
Other, incl. Information 
Technology & 
Plantation Services 
5,408 
3,082 
1,286 
4,106 
75 
140 
(69)
 
39,259 
15,572 
20,069 
23,724 
152 
(22)
(15)
Recurring PBT
Transportation 
5,712 
3,269 
4,044 
4,281 
75 
(19)
(6)
Consumer Foods 
2,319 
2,304 
2,284 
1,885 
1 
1 
21 
Retail 
3,056 
1,608 
1,490 
351 
90 
8 
324 
Leisure 
(1,512)
(8,546)
(1,597)
1,945 
82 
(435)
(182)
Property 
7,650 
(109)
535 
245 7,102 
(120)
118 
Financial Services 
4,995 
3,360 
2,755 
2,966 
49 
22 
(7)
Other, incl. Information 
Technology & 
Plantation Services 
2,213 
1,612 
787 
3,632 
37 
105 
(78)
 
24,432 
3,498 
10,299 
15,305 
599 
(66)
(33)
*Adjusted for SLFRS 16 - Leases, for comparison purposes.
 Refer page 42 for recurring adjustments
Industry Group Strategy and Outlook
Transportation
The performance of the Transportation 
industry group is expected to be insulated 
from the ongoing macroeconomic 
circumstances in Sri Lanka given that a 
majority of its businesses have revenue 
models primarily driven by offshore markets 
and customers. Given the prioritisation of 
the Ports industry by the Government as an 
essential service, it is less likely that there will 
be significant disruptions of operations at 
the Port of Colombo (POC), although there 
may be short-term pressures on account of 
the fuel shortage and the economic, social 
and political volatility in the country. The 
Transportation industry group is envisaged 
to be a key driver of the Group's performance 
in the immediate-term, particularly given 
its direct and indirect exposures to foreign 
currency denominated income streams. 
The revival of global trade in the medium 
to long-term on the back of economic 
recovery, improvements in consumption, and 
investments in infrastructure will augur well 
for Sri Lanka, particularly given its strategic 
location on key shipping routes. While 
short-term uncertainty exists for the POC, 
it should be noted that operations of the 
Port continued unhindered, with capacity 
recording a growth, even during the 30-year 
conflict in the country which ended in CY2009.
Immediate to Short-Term
The World Trade Organisation (WTO) expects 
merchandise trade volume to grow at 3.0 
per cent in CY2022, and 3.4 per cent in 
CY2023, post adjusting for the impacts of the 
Russia-Ukraine conflict. Although the outlook 
at the onset of the calendar year was more 
positive, where the envisaged growth at the 
time was 4.7 per cent for CY2022, this has 
moderated since then to 3.0 per cent on the 
back of increased uncertainty worldwide – 
from escalating tensions between Russia and 
Ukraine, supply chain disruptions, increased 
inflationary pressures and lockdowns in China 
which has disrupted seaborne trade. However, 
it is encouraging to note that the Asian region 
is expected to be a key contributor to world 
trade performance.

142 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Outlook
Seasonally-adjusted volume index, 2015=100
Seasonally-adjusted volume index, 2015=100
115
110
105
100
95
90
Q1 CY15 
Q3 CY15
Q1 CY16
Q3 CY16
Q1 CY17
Q3 CY17
Q1 CY18
Q3 CY18
Q1 CY19
Q3 CY19
Q1 CY20
Q3 CY20
Q1 CY21
Q3 CY21
Q1 CY22
Q3 CY22
Q1 CY23
Q3 CY23
Volume of world merchandise trade is envisaged to continue its recovery, albeit the slowdown
in the first quarter of CY2022 
Volume of world merchandise trade is envisaged to continue its recovery, albeit the slowdown
in the first quarter of CY2022 
Note: Each shaded region represents a +-0.5 standard error band around the central forecast.
Source: WTO and United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), WTO secretariat estimates.
Exports
Exports
Imports
Imports
120
130
110
100
90
85
70
Q1 CY19
Q2 CY19
Q3 CY19
Q4 CY19
Q1 CY20
Q2 CY20
Q3 CY20
Q4 CY20
Q1 CY21
Q2 CY21
Q3 CY21
Q4 CY21
Q1 CY22
Q2 CY22
Q3 CY22
Q4 CY22
Q1 CY23
Q2 CY23
Q3 CY23
Q4 CY23
Trade in Asia is envisaged to play a major role in driving global trade
Trade in Asia is envisaged to play a major role in driving global trade
120
130
110
100
90
85
70
North America
South and Central America and the Caribbean
Commonwealth of Independent States, including certain
associate and fomer members
Africa
Europe
Middle East
Asia
Volume Index, 2019=100
Volume Index, 2019=100
Merchandise exports and imports by region, CY2019 – CY2023 Q4
Merchandise exports and imports by region, CY2019 – CY2023 Q4
Q1 CY19
Q2 CY19
Q3 CY19
Q4 CY19
Q1 CY20
Q2 CY20
Q3 CY20
Q4 CY20
Q1 CY21
Q2 CY21
Q3 CY21
Q4 CY21
Q1 CY22
Q2 CY22
Q3 CY22
Q4 CY22
Q1 CY23
Q2 CY23
Q3 CY23
Q4 CY23
Source: WTO and UNCTAD.
Q4 CY2021 relative to Q4 CY2020 and CY2019
Q4 CY2021 relative to Q4 CY2020 and CY2019
Trade growth is envisaged to continue its growth momentum as evident in the fourth
quarter of CY2021 
Trade growth is envisaged to continue its growth momentum as evident in the fourth
quarter of CY2021 
vs. 2020 vs. 2019
IMP.
 20%
 26%
EXP.
 20%
 26%
vs. 2020 vs. 2019
IMP.
 18%
 25%
EXP.
 14%
 20%
vs. 2020 vs. 2019
IMP.
 41%
 39%
EXP.
 32%
 16%
vs. 2020 vs. 2019
IMP.
 25%
 25%
EXP.
 42%
 33%
vs. 2020 vs. 2019
IMP.
 24%
 21%
EXP.
 58%
 37%
vs. 2020 vs. 2019
IMP.
 24%
 26%
EXP.
 22%
 35%
vs. 2020 vs. 2019
IMP.
 31%
 38%
EXP.
 27%
 33%
vs. 2020 vs. 2019
IMP.
 33%
 30%
EXP.
 52%
 36%
IMP. - Imports
EXP. - Exports
Source: UNCTAD Global Trade Update February 2022.
The Ports and Shipping business is envisaged 
to remain resilient and continue its recovery 
momentum in line with regional trends, 
although domestic import volumes may 
continue to witness lower volumes in lieu of 
macroeconomic challenges, and social and 
political volatility. The continued growth in 
trade volumes coupled with increase in vessel 
movement in the immediate-term is likely to 
result in an improvement in the Bunkering 
business. Regardless, given the ongoing 
ground situation, the business will continue 
to proactively manage its costs, productivity 
and inventory in order to ensure minimal 
disruption, whilst also engaging with its 
customers and other stakeholders to ensure 
their concerns are managed. The revenue 
and profit streams of the Ports and Shipping 
business is largely in foreign currency which 
benefits the Group since the Rupee equivalent 
of such streams is now at the depreciated rate 
of the Rupee.
The impact on the Logistics business is more 
pronounced than the Ports and Shipping 
and the Bunkering businesses. The key 
challenge for the Logistics business would 
be in ensuring a seamless supply chain, 
especially given challenges in sourcing fuel for 
its distribution operations. Similar to the other 
businesses within the industry group, the 
Logistics business has managed the impact 
on operations thus far with no significant 
disruption. While prolonged fuel shortages 
and power cuts will hamper operations and 
logistics, impeding supply chain operations, 
the possibility that the Government secures 
some bridging financing should ensure the 
continuous supply of essential commodities. 
In the event such measures are not successful, 
the Group will proactively manage these 
disruptions as it did in March and April 2022. 
It is particularly encouraging to note that the 
CBSL has introduced a system permitting 
foreign currency earning exporters to utilise 
export proceeds to purchase fuel needed to 
continue with their operations; such schemes 
will aid the Group businesses in managing 
constraints in fuel and power given its foreign 
currency denominated income streams.
The businesses are envisaged to face 
pressures in importing material, especially 
given challenges in opening letters of credit 
given the foreign currency shortage in the 
country. However, this impact is expected to 
gradually diminish once the current liquidity 
challenges faced by the country are resolved, 
as articulated previously.

143
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
As per the Budget 2022, the proposal to 
introduce a 2.5 per cent social security levy 
on annual turnover exceeding Rs.120 million, 
which is still to be enacted, coupled with other 
fiscal consolidation efforts that are warranted 
to reduce the Government's fiscal deficit, are 
expected to negatively impact profitability.
The political volatility coupled with 
demonstrations and social agitations on account 
of the economic hardships, has impacted 
the recovery momentum in tourist arrivals as 
morefully outlined in the Leisure section of this 
write-up. The impact on the Airline businesses is 
envisaged to mirror the challenges and impacts 
of the Leisure businesses. 
Medium to Long-Term 
Ports and Shipping
The recovery of domestic import volumes 
in line with the envisaged recovery of 
the domestic economy post the fiscal 
consolidation process augmented with 
growth in regional and global trade in the 
medium-term is expected to bode well for the 
sector. The opportunity to further establish 
Colombo as a regional transshipment hub 
has been further strengthened, post the 
emergence of the pandemic, as shipping lines 
have demonstrated a preference to have less 
direct services and adopt a more 'hub and 
spoke' model, especially since the order book 
of many of the leading shipping lines focus on 
larger container ships, which are, in turn, more 
likely to call at transshipment hubs. 
The ongoing investments towards increasing 
the capacity in the POC through the 
development of the East Container Terminal 
(ECT) and West Container Terminal (WCT-1), 
will bode well for the country, ensuring the 
competitiveness of the POC in the region 
– especially in light of increasing capacity 
enhancements in the Indian ports. 
 y
East Container Terminal – ECT is partially 
operational on a transitory basis at 
present. Construction work at the ECT 
which recommenced in January 2022 
is envisaged to be conducted in three 
phases and is scheduled to be completed 
by CY2024. The ECT extends across 75 
hectares and will consist of a total quay 
length of 1,320 meters, of which 440 
meters was constructed in CY2015. Once 
completed, the Sri Lanka Ports Authority 
(SLPA) will operate a fully-fledged terminal 
equipped with 14 shore-to-shore (STS) 
cranes and 40 automated rail mounted 
gantry (RMG) cranes.
 y
West Container Terminal - The build, operate and transfer (BOT) agreement for the 
development of WCT-1 was signed on 30 September 2021 for a lease period of 35 years 
between SLPA and Colombo West International Container Terminal (Private) Limited (CWIT).  
The development and operation of the WCT-1 was identified as a Strategic Development 
Project (SDP) with the requisite gazettes being issued on 30 July 2021 and 15 November 2021.
The WCT-1, a part of the proposed Colombo Port South Harbour Development Project, is a 
deep-water terminal with a quay length of 1,400 meters, an alongside depth of 20 meters and 
has an annual handling capacity of ~3.2 million TEUs. Phase 1 of the terminal, comprising of 
a quay length of 600 meters, is slated to be operational within a period of ~24 months. The 
remainder of the terminal is expected to be completed within a further period of ~24 months. 
The total project cost is envisaged to be ~USD 650 million with a debt to equity mix of ~70:30. 
The JKH equity commitment is estimated at USD 70 million of which ~USD 10 million has 
already been infused into CWIT, with the remainder to be infused on a staggered basis over the 
project construction period. 
 y
The long-term aspirations of the SLPA, which includes the development of a new Colombo 
North Port, is encouraging and expected to spearhead Colombo being established as a leading 
transshipment hub in the region in terms of scale, providing scope for sustainable growth for 
the sector.
SOUTH HARBOUR 
DEVELOPMENT
CURRENT 
HARBOUR
SAGT
East 
Terminal
West 
Terminal
South Terminal
JCT
CICT
WCT-1
ECT
Colombo South Harbour Development Project
Although the increase in capacity in the POC in the medium-term will result in an impact on 
volumes for the existing terminal operators in the short-term, as seen with the entry of Colombo 
International Container Terminals (CICT), the capacity led growth will ensure demand ramps up 
significantly, given the factors mentioned previously. South Asia Gateway Terminals (SAGT) will 
continue to explore opportunities in line with the overall enhancements to the POC whilst working 
to improve terminal productivity and efficiency through strategic initiatives and investments. 
Special emphasis will be placed on consolidating its operations, providing high value-added and 
integrated services whilst increasing SAGT's share of higher yielding domestic volumes with a view 
of achieving a more balanced mix of transshipment to domestic volumes, in order to optimise 
profitability.
Bunkering
Prospects for bunkering services is promising in the medium-term, driven by the envisaged 
increase in regional trade activity and demand generated from ongoing investments in the POC, 
Southern and Eastern Ports. The Port of Hambantota (POH) is also expected to aid overall growth 
in volumes given increased capacity and infrastructure in the country. Growth in regional business 
activity, particularly in the SAARC (South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation) region is also 
expected to positively impact the business.
The primary challenge for the bunkering market in Sri Lanka was the limited availability of bonded 
tank space which hampered the destination's regional competitiveness and the ability to meet 
increasing demand. With the commencement of bunkering operations at the POH with a total 

144 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Outlook
capacity of ~60,000 MT and the recent 
expansion in the capacity in Colombo via the 
construction of a 3,200 MT storage tank by 
Jaya Container Terminal (JCT) in 2021/22, the 
industry witnessed an increase in the total 
storage available for bunker fuel, enabling 
industry players to import larger parcels of 
bunker fuel and availing the opportunity 
to supply bunker fuel at more competitive 
prices in line with regional ports. Improved 
competitiveness is expected to drive bunker 
volumes in the industry. In order to capitalise 
on this opportunity, the business will 
continue to focus on further consolidating 
its own storage and delivery capacity, and 
procurement processes in line with market 
conditions.
Although the industry may experience a shift 
in volumes from the POC to the POH due to 
commencement of operations, the Group is 
of the view that an increase in additional tank 
capacity will aid the overall bunker market, 
positively impacting both the POC and POH. 
The business will also continue to explore 
opportunities at the POH.
Logistics
The potential for palletised third-party logistics 
(3PL) remains promising in the medium to 
long-term with growth expected primarily 
from inbound project cargo operations, fast 
-moving consumer goods (FMCG) and export 
industries. The anticipated growth in regional 
and domestic trading activity, stemming 
from global economic recovery and ongoing 
infrastructure developments in the country, 
indicate significant potential for increasing 
integration into global supply chains and the 
positioning of Sri Lanka as a global trading 
hub. JKLL will endeavour to optimise cost 
and drive operational efficiencies, particularly 
through emphasis on digitisation initiatives. 
3PL customers are increasingly seeking end-
to-end solutions and, in this regard, every 
effort will be made to ensure a complete 
service offering.
Airlines
Increased trading activity and investment 
towards uplifting the tourism industry, as 
discussed in detail in the Leisure section of this 
write-up, coupled with convenience of faster 
connectivity between cities and Sri Lanka's 
growing popularity as a tourist hotspot, are 
expected to contribute towards improved 
performance of the Airline segment in the 
medium to-long-term.
Consumer Foods
The performance of the Beverages, Frozen Confectionery and Convenience Foods businesses are 
expected to face challenges during the following year in lieu of the challenging macroeconomic 
landscape as outlined in the ensuing section. However, looking beyond the short-term impacts, 
the Group remains confident of the underlying fundamentals of the industries the businesses 
operate in, and envisages strong growth momentum in the medium and long-term. 
Immediate to Short-Term
The current macroeconomic circumstances, where sharp increases in inflation and interest rates 
together with impending fiscal consolidation measures are likely to result in a moderation in 
consumer discretionary spending, could hamper growth in demand for non-essential items in 
the short-term. However, the impact on growth in demand may be curtailed due to the relatively 
low base of volumes in the previous year, given the impacts from the pandemic in last few years, 
while the continuation of the current favourable weather conditions may also support growth in 
demand in the short-term, to an extent. 
The notable increase in input costs, particularly prices of raw materials, both domestically and 
globally, on the back of supply chain constraints, inflation and currency impacts, will continue 
to exert significant pressure on margins in the short-term. Whilst the businesses will offset these 
impacts, to the extent feasible, through the selective price increases taken in the latter end of 
2021/22, margins are envisaged to come under pressure in the next few quarters. The businesses 
will proactively monitor its margins and take necessary measures, with due consideration on the 
price elasticity of demand for the products in the portfolio. Whilst input costs have increased 
across all industries in the country on account of high inflation and disruptions in the market, 
the impact of exchange rates through the sharp depreciation of the Rupee is expected to be 
largely one-off if the currency stabilises in the next few months. The prevailing foreign currency 
shortage in the market, however, is likely to place further pressure on supply chains of the business 
and, unless the liquidity position and ability to establish trade facilities improve, there could be 
disruptions to manufacturing and seamless distribution of the product portfolio. Considering 
these circumstances, the business will optimise the use of its available and expected raw material 
resources to manage its production and profitability. 
On the fiscal front, the imminent tax revenue proposals required to reduce the Government's 
fiscal deficit are expected to have an impact on consumer discretionary spend and may negatively 
impact profitability given the already pressured margins on account of input cost increases. In end 
CY2019, prior to the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Government introduced various 
tax relief measures such as reductions in VAT and removal of NBT in order to boost consumption. 
However, given the ongoing macroeconomic challenges, the CBSL and the Finance Ministry has 
intimated that a contractionary fiscal policy, particularly increases in sales taxes, may be warranted 
at this juncture in time. Such fiscal consolidation efforts may pose challenges for the businesses 
given its impact on pricing and on consumer discretionary spending. 
As witnessed towards the latter end of 2021/22, the current challenges on the foreign exchange 
market resulted in the businesses undergoing constraints in importing raw materials essential 
for production, particularly for the Frozen Confectionery business and the Beverages business. 
Challenges in the foreign exchange market are likely to continue in the immediate-term, exerting 
pressure on business performance particularly through supply chain disruptions. However, this 
impact is expected to gradually diminish once the current liquidity challenges faced by the 
country are resolved, as articulated previously. 
The businesses have managed the operation of its factories thus far with minimal disruptions, 
despite the power and fuel crisis. While prolonged power cuts and fuel shortages may hamper 
factory operations and logistics, impeding supply chain operations, the current outlook is that 
the Government is securing the bridging finance to ensure continuous supply of essential 
commodities. In the event such measures are not as successful, the Group will manage these 
disruptions as it did in March and April 2022. 

145
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
The prevailing foreign currency shortage in the market, however, 
is likely to place further pressure on supply chains of the business 
and, unless the liquidity position and ability to establish trade 
facilities improve, there could be disruptions to manufacturing 
and seamless distribution of the product portfolio. Considering 
these circumstances, the business will optimise the use of its 
available and expected raw material resources to manage its 
production and profitability.
Due to the uncertainty associated with macro fundamentals at this point in time, capacity 
enhancements will be evaluated in line with business growth in the current year and the evolution 
of the portfolio of products.
In the current backdrop, managing stakeholder concerns remains pivotal and a key challenge 
to the businesses. The businesses will continue to strengthen its ties with all stakeholders and 
proactively assist employees in line with Group policies and direction. Emphasis will also be placed 
on maintaining rigorous engagement with its suppliers and distributors to ensure a seamless 
supply chain, better management of the working capital cycle and reduced credit risk exposure, 
while further streamlining the distributor network to ensure greater stability and consistency for 
the future. As outlined above, cashflow and cost management initiatives will remain a priority 
throughout the ensuing year. 
In tandem with the trends witnessed in the latter end of the year under review, smaller pack 
sizes and the Impulse range, particularly given its lower price points, is expected to continue its 
higher share of the volume mix. The business will continue to focus on re-inventing its portfolio 
of products as well as packaging to manage costs while offering enhanced value to its consumer 
base. On the Beverages front, the temporary shift from glass bottles to PET will need to be 
monitored closely, particularly since glass offers greater value to consumers which could be a focal 
point considering current market conditions. Although the subdued performance of the hotels, 
restaurants, catering (HORECA) channel is expected to continue in the short-term, this is expected 
to gradually recover in tandem with tourism recovery.
Medium to Long-Term 
Despite the immediate to short-term impacts on demand and business performance on account 
of the challenging landscape, domestic demand conditions are envisaged to remain resilient 
and rebound in the medium-term in tandem with a revival of the economy and improvement in 
consumer confidence post the fiscal consolidation process. 
The penetration of consumer food products in Sri Lanka continues to be relatively low in 
comparison to global and regional peers, demonstrating the significant potential in these 
industries. Given the higher penetration within urban areas, the Group expects growth from the 
outskirts of the country to be a significant contributor to medium to long-term growth, despite the 
lower base. The industry group will capitalise on this opportunity by investing in its supply chain 
and augmenting its portfolio of offerings in line with evolving trends. 
The business will continue to invest in its digitisation strategy, particularly in furtherance of the 
Group's advanced analytics transformation journey through data driven decision-making to garner 
insights, which is expected to optimise production practices, deliver productivity and cost savings, 
and identify growth opportunities. Diversity, equity and inclusion will also be a key thrust area for 
the industry group. 
The introduction of concepts such as extended producer responsibility (EPR), with the aim 
of managing waste and increasing recycling rates, if implemented gradually with proper 
communication and engagement with the affected industries, will aid the industry in converting 
its business models into sustainable practices.
Beverages
The business will continue to focus on 
developing its portfolio in line with 
evolving market trends, where consumers 
place increased emphasis on healthy and 
sustainable products, which are further 
augmented with evolving regulations and 
restrictions surrounding calorific sugar 
content in beverages. Accordingly, the share 
of the carbonated soft drinks (CSD) as a 
proportion of total beverages is envisaged to 
proportionately diminish in the long-term. 
However, the prospects for the beverage 
industry continues to be promising and 
provide opportunities for growth as these 
health and ecoconscious consumers seek 
alternate beverage options. 
Similar trends are witnessed globally, where 
CSD manufactures worldwide continue to 
engage in reformulation exercises with the 
aim of reducing the sugar content of its 
products and adopt sustainable packaging, 
whilst extending the portfolios to include non-
CSD beverages which are healthier and more 
nutritious. To this end, the Beverage business 
has already reformulated its flagship flavours 
and ~30 - 45 per cent of the CSD portfolio's 
calorific sugar content is reformulated and 
replaced with stevia; a natural sweetener with 
zero calories. 
Low consumption patterns and penetration 
reflects potential for growth in the CSD 
market
Carbonated soft drinks - per capita consumption (litres)
Carbonated soft drinks - per capita consumption (litres)
Sri Lanka
Malaysia
Singapore
Thailand
Philippines
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
10
19
31
39
52
Source: Company analysis.
Per capita packaged beverage consumption 
in Sri Lanka is well below regional and global 
averages highlighting the growth potential 
for the beverage market in the country. As 
a leading player in the beverages market, 
the Beverages business will leverage on its 
strong brand equity and distribution network 
to capitalise on this opportunity through a 
continuing pipeline of products, as introduced 
over the recent years, catering to the dynamic 

146 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
The introduction of concepts 
such as extended producer 
responsibility (EPR), with the 
aim of managing waste and 
increasing recycling rates, if 
implemented gradually with 
proper communication and 
engagement with the affected 
industries, will aid the industry 
in converting its business 
models into sustainable 
practices.
Outlook
lifestyles of consumers. Given evolving regulations surrounding single use plastics and interest 
towards environmentally friendly packaging, continual emphasis will also be placed on exploring 
alternate forms of packaging, where feasible. 
Given changing market dynamics, the Beverages business in the medium-term will:
 y
Focus on consolidating its current CSD portfolio and discontinuing non-performing stock 
keeping units (SKUs).
 y
Prioritise the extension of the current non-CSD range, based on market opportunity.
 y
Manage the composition of the portfolio to ensure optimum margins.
 y
Consolidate and stabilise distributor networks whilst improving sales force efficiency through 
digital means.
 y
Explore new operating models, different marketing channels and alternate methods of 
working, given changing consumer behaviour and digitisation trends. 
 y
Implement lean initiatives at factories. 
Frozen Confectionery
Rapid urbanisation and increasing disposable income coupled with modern lifestyle trends 
have fuelled growth in global frozen confectionery markets in the recent years, and the industry 
has witnessed notable growth, even amidst challenging conditions. Looking beyond the 
aforementioned short-term impacts, this positive growth trajectory is expected to continue.
Ice cream consumption in Sri Lanka at ~3 litres per capita is well below global averages, 
demonstrating the significant potential for growth in this market. In line with global and regional 
peers, the business expects a gradual shift in the bulk to impulse mix towards impulse products, 
with impulse products being the primary driver of the envisaged increase in per capita ice cream 
consumption in Sri Lanka. The business will continue to invest in expanding its distribution reach 
in an optimal manner.
70
30
(%)
Bulk
Impluse
92
8
56
44
The bulk:impulse mix of regional markets is highly tilted towards the impulse market, demonstrating
the significant potential for the impulse category in the overall ice cream market of Sri Lanka.
The bulk:impulse mix of regional markets is highly tilted towards the impulse market, demonstrating
the significant potential for the impulse category in the overall ice cream market of Sri Lanka.
Sri Lanka
Sri Lanka
Thailand
Thailand
Malaysia
Malaysia
The Frozen Confectionery business envisages a similar trend for its portfolio in the long-term, 
in line with the aforementioned overall market tilt towards impulse products. As witnessed in 
the recent years, the state-of-the-art facility in Seethawaka will continue to play a pivotal role in 
catering to this growth trajectory. Whilst this contribution is limited to the Impulse segment at 
present, this is also expected to extend to the Bulk segment in the long-run. This facility continues 
to perform as envisaged, aiding innovative new product development, increased operational 
efficiencies and better margins. 
The strategic priorities of the Frozen Confectionery business for the short to medium-term are:
 y
Focus on consolidating its current Frozen Confectionery portfolio, including the expansion of 
the 'Wellness' range.
 y
Emphasis on digitisation and process improvements.
 y
Explore new operating models, alternative distribution channels and alternate methods of 
working.
 y
Investments in its supply chain.
 y
Implementation of lean initiatives at factories. 
Convenience Foods
The Convenience Foods business will continue 
to innovate and expand on its portfolio 
offering. Similar to the Beverages and Frozen 
Confectionery businesses, the Convenience 
Foods business will also place emphasis 
on staying abreast of market trends and 
delivering products in line with consumer 
preferences. 
The strategic priorities for the business for the 
medium-term are: 
 y
Development of product extensions, 
paving way for the business to increase its 
market share particularly through emphasis 
on 'convenient' and affordable meal 
options.
 y
Focus on consolidating the dry distribution 
network and sales force to ensure readiness 
to cater to the envisaged growth in 
volumes.
 y
Emphasis on growing the modern and 
general trade channels, particularly the 
organised small and medium entities 
under general trade thereby increasing 
footprint.
 y
Focus on further augmenting its portfolio 
offering.

147
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
The performance of the 
Supermarket business is 
envisaged to remain insulated, 
to a large extent, despite the 
ongoing macroeconomic 
challenges, considering 
that essential and regular 
grocery and household items 
constitute a large portion of a 
consumer basket.
Retail
The performance of the Supermarket business is envisaged to remain insulated, to a large extent, 
despite the ongoing macroeconomic challenges, considering that essential and regular grocery 
and household items constitute a large portion of a consumer basket. Whilst the ongoing financial 
crisis may dampen consumer discretionary spend, the increase in inflation together with the 
aforementioned reasons where consumer demand for items should continue are expected to 
support growth in the business. The performance of the Office Automation business is envisaged 
to undergo challenges in lieu of the current shortage of foreign exchange in the market, as 
outlined below. 
Immediate to Short-Term
Supermarkets
Consumer demand at the Supermarket business is envisaged to remain resilient given the nature 
of the business, where the performance is expected to be largely insulated as consumer baskets 
primarily consist of essential goods, personal care and other daily household items. Whilst there 
may be a tapering of demand for select items given the expected impact on consumer spend and 
price elasticity of demand, especially for non-essential and luxury items, this is likely to be offset 
by the change in the composition of consumer baskets with switches to affordable substitutes. 
Revenue of the Supermarket business will continue to be supported by inflation across the 
portfolio driven by the substantial price increases being undertaken by suppliers of goods.
The Supermarket business witnessed a conversion from general trade to modern trade in the 
recent quarters which is expected to continue given the ability for the modern trade outlets 
to ensure less disruptions to its supply chains through better management of its inventory 
and working capital, as well as the ability to pass on benefits to consumers due to the scale of 
operations. Given increased challenges in sourcing products due to supply chain disruptions 
affecting all manufacturers and importers of goods, inventory gaps of the Supermarket business 
during the latter end of the year under review has been at a peak. Such gaps are likely to increase, 
until such time a certain level of economic stability, particularly the lack of foreign exchange 
liquidity is overcome. Given the notable shortages in essential goods and other fast-moving items, 
the business proactively ramped up its direct import strategy in 2021/22 with the aim of bridging 
such gaps and, more importantly, providing its customers with such products at the best possible 
value. This has also helped drive footfall to outlets. While the Supermarket business has significantly 
increased its private-label range successfully, this focus was augmented with the intention of 
managing inventory better and also providing its customers with better choice and 'value for 
money', both of which are important decision drivers for consumers, particularly at this juncture.
Despite the ongoing power disruptions and shortages of fuel prevailing in the country, the business 
has managed the operation of its outlets, thus far, through alterations to operating hours and 
temporarily closures of a select number of outlets. This has caused minimal impact on customers 
and therefore ensured that revenue continues to show growth. However, if the current crisis is not 
resolved and the country is impelled to have prolonged power cuts and fuel shortages, this may 
hamper outlet operations and logistics although demand during operating hours will be stronger.
The current landscape has exerted pressure on all suppliers who are compelled to undertake 
unprecedented price increases. While such price increases will positively impact revenue, margins 
and promotional incomes may come under pressure, although, in the past, the business has ensured 
there is minimal impact on margins. Despite the aforesaid, the impact on performance will be less 
pronounced than witnessed during the COVID-19 outbreaks given that the impact of closure of 
outlets in a high fixed cost business has a more significant impact on operational performance. 
In CY2019, prior to the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Government introduced various 
tax relief measures such as reductions in VAT and removal of NBT in order to boost consumption. 
However, given the ongoing macroeconomic challenges, authorities have conveyed that a 
contractionary fiscal policy, particularly increases in sales taxes, may be warranted at this juncture 
in time. Such fiscal consolidation efforts may pose challenges for the business, given its impact 
on pricing and on consumer discretionary 
spending, although the nature of business will 
nevertheless ensure robust sales. On the fiscal 
front, as per the Budget 2022, the proposal to 
introduce a 2.5 per cent social security levy 
on annual turnover exceeding Rs.120 million 
may impact profitability depending on the 
pricing strategy of suppliers. This proposal is 
yet to be implemented since the engagement 
with the IMF will necessitate some tax revenue 
measures and the way forward is not finalised. 
Considering the uncertainty and volatility 
on construction related costs, in particular, 
at this point, the business will closely 
review and monitor the expansion of its 
network identified for the short-term to 
ensure returns are as anticipated given the 
rise in the investment of each outlet. While 
the investment per outlet has increased 
significantly, the business has also significantly 
benefited from higher revenue which will 
positively impact the feasibility studies of 
prospective outlets.
The state-of-the-art distribution centre 
(DC) in Kerawalapitiya, which commenced 
operations in January 2022, is also envisaged 
to significantly contribute to process and 
operational efficiencies, enabling better 
visibility of the supply chain and reducing 
stock holding costs.
The well-being of employees, suppliers and 
customers remain a key priority and the 
business will continue to roll-out measures 
to assist them through these challenging 
times. The business will continue to maintain 
transparent communication with its 
customers, whist also engaging with suppliers 
and other stakeholders to ensure a continually 
functioning supply chain. Emphasis will also 
be placed on cost optimisation and working 
capital management.

148 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Outlook
Office Automation
The performance of the Office Automation 
business is expected to undergo challenges 
as a result of the current constraints in the 
foreign exchange market. Given the retail 
nature of the Office Automation business, 
the business is expected to face pressures in 
importing office automation products and 
mobile phones, given challenges in opening 
letters of credit due to the foreign currency 
shortage in the country, till such time the 
foreign currency and liquidity position of the 
country is stabilised. 
Medium to Long-Term 
Supermarkets
The prospects for the modern trade industry 
in Sri Lanka remains promising, given the low 
penetration of modern trade outlets in the 
country, growth expectations for consumer 
demand and the steady conversion from 
general trade to modern trade driven by 
demand for better quality, convenience 
and 'value for money' by consumers. The 
Supermarket business is uniquely positioned 
to capitalise on this opportunity by leveraging 
on its high brand equity.
Prospects for the modern trade industry in Sri 
Lanka is promising, given the low penetration 
of modern trade outlets in the country. 
(%)
(%)
Modern Retail Penetration 
Modern Retail Penetration 
Singapore
Malaysia
Hong Kong
Taiwan
Thailand
Sri Lanka
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
40
16
43
48
49
70
Source: Company analysis.
Modern Trade Density
Modern Trade Density
Population (’000) per store
Population (’000) per store
132.0
47.0
30.0
21.0
7.3
4.7
4.5
3.7
3.6
3.4
3.0
2.5
1.9
0.9
0
30
60
90
120
150
India
Vietnam
Sri Lanka
Philippines
Indonesia
Thailand
Malaysia
Singapore
China
Hong Kong
Australia
New Zealand
Taiwan
Korea
Source: Retail and shopper trends in the Asia Pacific, AC Nielsen.
The Supermarket business will continue to place emphasis on differentiating the shopping 
experience for its customers through its 'fresh' promise, service excellence and quality within five 
activity pillars; product, price, place, people and the customer. The business will also focus on 
continually expanding its footprint to capitalise on the envisaged growth of the modern trade 
industry given its low density and penetration levels. 'Brick and mortar' stores are expected to 
be the key driver of growth going forward for the foreseeable future, although online sales will 
increase its contribution over the years. Consumer behaviour suggests an inclination to shop at 
physical stores; a reversal in online trends was evident with the easing of restrictions with direct 
'brick and motor' sales noting a corresponding increase during the times the country was not 
impacted by the pandemic. 
In this light, the business will continue the expansion of its network in the medium-term, both in 
urban and suburban areas, timing such expansion plans based on the macroeconomic landscape 
and the maturity of these markets. In addition to its standard store format, the business also  
rolled-out a modular store format in pursuing its expansion plans for select areas, to optimise 
capital expenditure and operational costs, until such time these earmarked markets mature 
by which time the store can be expanded to a standard format in a modular manner. The key 
challenges faced during expansion include securing lease of land plots in prime locations which 
are in conformity with brand specifications and staff retention. The business will continue to 
focus on retaining its labour force by augmenting its recruitment processes, empowering these 
individuals and focusing on the employer brand. 
The DC in Kerawalapitiya will augment the business's expansion, particularly given its ability to 
cater to the number of outlets well beyond the medium to long-term. As outlined above, the 
operation of the new DC is expected to result in significant supply chain efficiencies, particularly 
given the centralisation of almost the entirety of the dry and fresh range of the current modern 
trade offering and also providing better visibility of the supply chain. 
Given the significant roll-out of outlets in the past few years, profitability and margins of the 
Supermarket business were impacted by the funding costs associated with such investment and 
also the relative contribution from new outlets. EBITDA margins of new outlets are comparatively 
lower than mature outlets, given that new outlets typically take 12-16 months to ramp up to 
normalised operational levels. Whilst the impact of new outlets was more pronounced at the 
outset, since the outlet count has doubled over a period of three years, as evident during non-
pandemic affected periods of operations, the business has seen the normalisation of the impact 
of new outlet expansion since the base of existing outlets are now proportionately much higher 
relative to the expansion envisaged. Continued emphasis will also be placed on higher private-label 
penetration in order to enhance customer choice and drive profitability margins.
The Supermarket business will 
continue to place emphasis on 
differentiating the shopping 
experience for its customers 
through its 'fresh' promise, 
service excellence and quality 
within five activity pillars; 
product, price, place, people 
and the customer.

149
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
JKOA will continue to expand 
its presence in the market 
in line with the envisaged 
growth, whilst leveraging on its 
portfolio of world-class brands 
and distribution network.
The business will continue with the 
development and implementation of 
advanced analytics 'use cases' in order to 
foster data-driven decision-making. The 
preliminary results of the 'use cases' already 
rolled-out, focusing on aspects such as 
promotion effectiveness, range optimisation, 
and marketing outreach, is promising and is 
expected to meaningfully contribute towards 
enhanced performance and driving customer 
intimacy through a deeper understanding of 
customer requirements.
Office Automation 
Looking beyond the current macroeconomic 
challenges, the business remains confident of 
the underlying demand for office automation 
solutions and smart mobile phones which 
is expected to be driven by increasing 
commercial activity within the country and 
an improvement in business sentiment. As 
evident from the results in the recent year, the 
business has the potential to grow given the 
rapid urbanisation witnessed in the recent 
years. The Government's initiatives aimed at 
transforming Colombo as a financial hub will 
also augur well for the business.
John Keells Office Automation (JKOA) will 
continue to expand its presence in the market 
in line with the envisaged growth, whilst 
leveraging on its portfolio of world-class 
brands and distribution network. The business 
will also leverage on its brand equity to 
ensure a continued supply of mobile phones 
in to the market at varying price points, 
aimed at different market segments, thereby 
strengthening its position in the mobile phone 
market. The business will place emphasis on 
improving productivity and efficiency in its 
sales and aftercare operations to ensure high 
quality customer service. To this end, focus will 
also be placed on a range of initiatives aimed 
at digitising the supply chain to consolidate its 
operations and improve productivity.
Leisure
Tourism has been a key driver of the Sri Lankan economy in the past, with the industry having the 
potential to become even more significant given the tourism offering in Sri Lanka and the proximity 
to large and rapidly growing source markets such as India. With tourism being one of the largest 
potential sources of foreign exchange income for the country, the strategic nature of tourism is 
even more pronounced with the Government focus on reviving the industry being at the forefront. 
Unfortunately, the tourism industry in Sri Lanka has undergone unprecedented challenges over the 
past three years with the Easter Sunday terror attacks in April 2019 and the subsequent global and 
local outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, exerting pressure on performance. 
The leisure industry witnessed a very strong recovery from the end of CY2021 onwards with 
the re-opening of the country for tourism, recording the highest arrivals for the first time in 20 
months. By 31 March 2022, tourist arrivals to the country had recovered to almost 50 per cent 
of pre-pandemic arrivals. The industry is envisaged to sustain this growth momentum on the 
back of accommodative travel policies enabled by the high vaccination rates in the country and 
competitiveness as a destination in terms of the diverse and unique nature of offerings, as well 
as pricing, particularly, given the recent steep depreciation of the local currency, although there 
maybe immediate-term transitory pressures as outlined in the ensuing section. 
Against this backdrop, the Group remains confident that the prospects for tourism remain 
extremely positive given the diversity of the offering and the potential for regional tourism, 
notwithstanding the immediate loss of momentum due to the prevailing ground situation in the 
country which has deterred tourists to some extent.
Immediate to Short-Term
The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on global tourism continues to be easing off gradually, 
with higher vaccination rates globally and an increasing number of destinations easing travel 
restrictions as living with the pandemic seems to be the way forward for many countries. These 
factors have collectively contributed to a surge in global travel due to 'pent-up' demand.
Global Tourism
The United Nations World Tourism Organisation (UNWTO) projects the outlook for tourism based 
on two scenarios, as morefully detailed in the ensuing section. UNWTO forecasts international 
tourist arrivals for CY2022 to record a 30 to 78 per cent growth against CY2021, although this 
would still remain at ~50 to 63 per cent below pre-COVID-19 levels. Similarly, the World Travel 
and Tourism Council estimates global international spending to record a 94 per cent increase in 
CY2022. 
Jan
1
(14)
(65)
(97)
(95)
(91)
(79) (76) (77)(82)
(85)
(84)(86)
(87) (85) (84) (81)
(76)
(65)
(61) (60) (59)
(63)
(65)
Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
CY20
CY20
CY21*
CY21*
Monthly international tourist arrivals in CY2020, and UNWTO projections for CY2022
Monthly international tourist arrivals in CY2020, and UNWTO projections for CY2022
CY22
CY22
0
(20)
(40)
(60)
(80)
(100)
Scenario 1
Scenario 2
Actual data
Annual change
(Over CY19)
(50%)
(63%)
(YoY %)
(YoY %)
Source: UNWTO World Tourism Barometer January 2022.

150 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Outlook
Opportunities for global tourism outlook CY2022 as per the UNWTO:
 y
Continuing recovery in many countries and markets, especially in Europe and the Americas has 
been encouraging.
 y
Research suggests a large 'pent-up' demand for travel and tourism.
 y
Ongoing vaccination drives across the globe has been encouraging.
 y
Pandemic related challenges across two years have imparted experiences and knowledge on 
the industry on better managing the impacts of the pandemic.
 y
Use of digital tools to facilitate travel such as the EU Digital COVID Certificates have aided 
countries in recovering and opening for tourism faster. 
Potential headwinds to the UNWTO global tourism outlook for CY2022 include the recent rise 
in infections and the possibility of new variants, particularly if vaccinations are not uniformly 
rolled-out across the world, which may hamper the recovery momentum and traveller confidence, 
especially if there are reintroductions of travel restrictions. Further, the conflict between Russia 
and Ukraine has resulted in significant turmoil and impact on global oil prices, which has further 
exacerbated inflationary pressures around the world which could possibly deter the momentum of 
global travel recovery, although this is likely to be offset due to the 'pent up' demand and the low 
pandemic affected base of tourism. 
As witnessed since the latter end of 2020/21, the performance of the Group's hotels, particularly 
in the Maldives, is testimony to the recovery momentum, where it is encouraging to witness 
heartening demand for leisure travel, which is evident through the performance in the third and 
fourth quarters and the encouraging forward bookings. 
Sri Lanka
Sri Lankan tourism witnessed a significant uptick in performance from December 2021 onwards 
on account of the resumption in tourist arrivals and consumer activity being near 'normal' since 
the onset of the pandemic in early 2020. Accordingly, Sri Lanka Tourism Development Authority 
(SLTDA) conservatively projected tourist arrivals for CY2022 to be at ~1.1 million, compared to the 
pre-pandemic arrivals of 2.3 million in CY2019. This recovery momentum sustained till March 2022, 
with the Group's Sri Lankan Leisure businesses recording a significant turnaround in performance. 
However, the peaceful demonstrations and social agitations on account of the economic hardships 
due to the lack of essential items and steep price escalations, together with the prevailing political 
uncertainty has impacted the recovery momentum of arrivals to the country for April 2022 which 
recorded a 48 per cent month-on-month decline. Whilst these social demonstrations have been 
peaceful, there were a few sporadic incidents which had given rise to this uncertainty. However, 
since then, the social uncertainty in the country reached a peak on 9 May 2022 when the peaceful 
protests being held were disrupted causing retaliatory violence for a few days prompting the 
imposition of curfew. At the time of writing this Report, the situation in the country is calm with 
some level of political stability with the appointment of a new Prime Minister and all leading 
political parties confirming support for progressive policies to be adopted towards resolving the 
economic issues in the country. 
Whilst global tourist arrivals are expected to record a recovery, continued uncertainty and volatility 
on the macroeconomic stability of the country and resultant social unrest, further exacerbated by 
the ongoing fuel and power crisis, may pose challenges for the country in attracting foreign arrivals 
in the immediate-term. Hence, ensuring continued political and social stability coupled with 
clear and transparent communication with the global community would be pivotal in attracting 
foreign arrivals to the country. Given ongoing discussions to strengthen Sri Lanka's fiscal position, 
the aforementioned impacts are expected to diminish in the next few months if the necessary 
outcomes are achieved, as this is expected to stabilise the macroeconomy and address the social 
unrest. Accordingly, the impact to arrivals is envisaged to be limited for a few months which are 
typically the low season months and recovery should take place well in time for the peak season 
which commences from around December onwards. 
The properties in the Sri Lankan Resorts segment 
are expected to be maintain average room rates 
in USD terms, despite the steep depreciation 
of the Rupee, given that tourist arrivals are 
envisaged to improve over the ensuing months 
while the inventory of resort rooms in the Sri 
Lanka remains largely unchanged. The strategy 
for the Colombo Hotels sector will depend on 
the volume growth achieved considering the 
availability of a sizeable inventory in the market 
and a few additional rooms as well, although 
current rates are already at depressed levels and 
therefore likely to maintain, or if not improve, 
from this point onwards. 
As a destination, Sri Lanka continues to 
remain attractive as a tourism hub, given its 
competitive edge over its regional peers: 
 y
Consistency in COVID-19 related travel 
policies. 
 y
Minimal quarantine requirements and 
efficient on-arrival processes.
 y
Encouraging vaccination drive and 
containment of infections. 
 y
UNWTO projects domestic tourism 
and travel closer to home as one of 
the major trends for CY2022. 
 y
Ability to tap into the Indian market, 
and potentially China. 
 y
Increased connectivity and 
supporting infrastructure.
 y
A range of tourist attractions (wildlife, 
beaches and historical sites)
 y
As per UNWTO, nature, rural tourism 
and road trips have emerged as key 
trends for CY2022.
 y
The recent steep depreciation of the 
domestic currency has increased the 
'value for money' nature of the total 
destination.
In the immediate-term, the current 
macroeconomic challenges of sharp increases 
in inflation and interest rates together with 
impending fiscal consolidation measures are 
likely to hamper growth in demand for domestic 
travel and may impact food and beverage (F&B) 
performance although the higher end of the 
market could be less impacted. Domestic travel 
may also be further impacted by the ongoing 
fuel crisis, until such time bridging finance is 
secured to ensure a continuous supply of fuel 
and essential supplies. 

151
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Given the significant increase in prices on the 
back of supply chain constraints, particularly 
for restaurant operations and events and 
banqueting, the businesses will continue to 
adopt stringent expense control and cost 
optimisation measures. Despite the cost 
pressures, the EBITDA of the businesses 
is expected to improve due to the steep 
depreciation of the Rupee. However, this may be 
partially offset at a PBT level due to rising finance 
costs on account of the increase in interest 
rates. The Group has fixed a portion of its Rupee 
debt portfolio and therefore will be somewhat 
insulated from the impacts of rising interest 
rates. On the fiscal front, as per the Budget 2022, 
the proposal to introduce a 2.5 per cent social 
security levy on annual turnover exceeding 
Rs.120 million, which is still to be enacted, is also 
envisaged to impact profitability.
The Group's properties in Sri Lanka have 
managed its operations thus far with 
minimum disruptions, despite the power and 
fuel crisis. While prolonged power cuts and 
fuel shortages may hamper hotel operations, 
the current outlook is that the Government 
is expected to secure the bridging finance 
to ensure a continuous supply of essential 
commodities. In the event such measures are 
not as successful, the Group will manage these 
disruptions as it managed towards the latter 
end of 2021/22.
On the health and safety measures relating to 
recovery from the pandemic, the businesses 
will continue to ensure that all required social 
distancing protocols and health checks are in 
place as advocated by international and local 
regulatory bodies. Additionally, managing 
stakeholder concerns and transparent 
communication on the ground realities are 
pivotal, which will be a key priority.
With global tourism recovering post the 
pandemic, a focused destination marketing 
efforts is imperative in order to convey the 
destination's offering and promote its value 
offering and competitiveness. In this regard, 
it is encouraging to note that the SLTDA has 
conveyed they are in the final stages in the 
procurement process for the roll-out of an 
integrated global promotion campaign, which 
is envisaged to be launched for the first time 
since the end of the conflict in CY2009.
In terms of portfolio expansion, 'Cinnamon Red Kandy', jointly developed by John Keells Hotels PLC 
(KHL) and Indra Traders (Private) Limited, is currently under development and is expected to be 
opened in the second half of 2022/23, notwithstanding any challenges in completion due to the 
prevailing ground situation. At a total investment cost of ~Rs.6 billion, the Group is envisaged to 
hold a 40 per cent stake of the equity component. The management of the hotel will fall under the 
purview of the Hotel Management sector. 
Maldives
The Government of Maldives has a target of reaching 1.60 million tourists for CY2022. The World 
Bank also estimates 1.57 million tourist arrivals for CY2022, driven by organic growth in global 
tourism post adjusting for impacts from the Russia-Ukraine crisis. Thereafter, it expects 1.9 million 
tourists for CY2023 on the back of increased capacity due to the completion of the Velana 
International Airport expansion and a rebound in Chinese arrivals, which was the single largest 
source market into the Maldives prior to the pandemic. Potential downside risks include a slower 
recovery in tourism than envisaged, adverse oil prices affecting long-haul travel from source 
markets, and continued pandemic related challenges. 
Whilst the Russia-Ukraine crisis may exert pressure on performance, as noted previously, this is 
envisaged to be offset through organic growth in global tourism, particularly from new source 
markets, as evident in the performance of the Group's Maldivian properties in the fourth quarter 
of 2021/22. It is encouraging that the rebound in tourism into the Maldives has been driven by 
traditional source markets, to an extent, while alternate markets have also contributed significantly. 
This is despite there being no Chinese arrivals due to travel restrictions for travel out of China, whilst 
India has also not rebounded as strongly to pre-March 2021 levels, due to a spike in COVID-19 
cases in the country. This clearly demonstrates the 'pent-up' demand and showcases the potential 
arrivals can witness if the Chinese and Indian source markets normalise for outbound travel. As 
noted in the Leisure Industry Group Review, arrivals to the Maldives and the Group's Maldivian 
properties have been very encouraging, where occupancy and average room rates (ARRs) have 
reached pre-pandemic levels. The Group is well positioned to capitalise on this opportunity given 
that the full complement of all four resorts in the Maldives is available following refurbishment and 
reconstruction just prior to the pandemic.
Regulations surrounding minimum wages for local employees which was implemented in January 
2022 and global supply chain constraints which has impacted all destinations, to which the 
Maldives is no exception, are expected to create cost pressures for the business. 
Medium to Long-Term 
Looking beyond the immediate challenges, the Group remains confident that the prospects for 
tourism in the medium to long-term remain extremely positive, given the diversity of the offering 
and the potential for regional tourism, together with availability of its full complement of hotels 
to cater to this anticipated upsurge in demand. The potential for tourism still remains largely 
untapped given that Sri Lanka attracted only 2.3 million tourists prior to the Easter Sunday attacks 
in CY2019, whereas regional tourism has grown many-fold during the last decade. 
(%)
(%)
Tourist arrivals lag well below regional peers
Tourist arrivals lag well below regional peers
Malaysia
Indonesia
Thailand
Vietnam
Cambodia
CY2018 arrivals for
comparative purposes
(CY2019 includes the impact
of Easter Sunday attacks)
Sri Lanka
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
CY90
CY19
Note: Given the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic in CY2020 and CY2021, the graph compares tourist arrivals in 
CY1990 against CY2019.

152 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Outlook
Concerted marketing campaign in a post-COVID-19 environment, improving connectivity into 
the country at competitive rates, addressing capacity constraints both in terms of airport capacity 
constraints and tourism infrastructure is expected to be a significant catalyst to attract tourism into 
Sri Lanka. 
The Bandaranaike International Airport (BIA) expansion project is a two-phase project estimated 
at ~Rs.110 billion. Phase B, providing 23 additional parking spaces (aprons) for aircrafts using 
the facility was concluded in November 2021. Phase A, which entails the construction of a new 
passenger terminal building is ongoing and is expected to be opened in CY2024. Post completion, 
the terminal will have the ability to handle ~15 million passengers annually. 
Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts
The businesses will continue to operate within the realigned structure put in place in 2020/21, 
which is a part of the Group's vision of expanding its footprint, in an asset-light model, to enable 
the businesses to create a holistic value proposition that leverages on the round-trip offerings 
in Sri Lanka and the Maldives, whilst fostering greater synergies and efficiencies across the hotel 
portfolio resulting in an enhanced customer value proposition.
Cinnamon Citadel Kandy 
Cinnamon Bey Beruwala
Cinnamon Bentota Beach
Hikka Tranz by Cinnamon
Trinco Blu by Cinnamon
Habarana Village by Cinnamon
Cinnamon Lodge Habarana
Cinnamon Wild Yala 
Round trip offering in key tourist destinations; further potential to expand 
the 'Cinnamon' footprint 
Of the total freehold land acreage owned, a 
total of 96 acres of freehold land are in key 
tourist hotspots:
 y
Ahungalla (Southern Province) : 10.9 acres
 y
Trincomalee (Eastern Province) : 14.6 acres
 y
Nilaveli (Eastern Province) : 41.7 acres
 y
Wirawila (Southern Province) : 25.2 acres
Colombo Hotels
Several major infrastructure projects are expected to be completed in the ensuing years in 
Colombo including the Port City Colombo project and the development of the East and West 
Terminals of the POC. Such notable developments are expected to augur well for the city, 
particularly in attracting business travellers. The availability of dedicated conferencing and 
meeting facilities is also expected to bode well for tourism, particularly to attract tourism from the 
meetings, incentives, conferences, and exhibitions (MICE) segment. The Colombo Hotels segment 
will be uniquely positioned to capitalise on this opportunity, particularly given the addition of the 
'Cinnamon Life Colombo' hotel to its portfolio in the first half of CY2023. 
Continued focus will be placed on prioritising the development of market-specific strategies 
aimed at catering to a diverse clientele. The properties will also leverage on its unparalleled F&B 
offering, by continuing to strengthen its dedicated offerings and flagship restaurants. 
Sri Lankan Resorts
Despite the aforementioned headwinds in the short-term, given the increasing traction Sri Lanka 
has received as a holiday destination and the unparalleled cultural and natural landscape of the 
country, the prospects for the Sri Lankan Resorts segment remain positive in the medium-term. 
The Group will continue to expand the 'Cinnamon' footprint across the island, although primarily 
in line with the Group's asset-light investment strategy. In addition to the launch of 'Cinnamon Red 
Kandy', the Group will also place emphasis on monetising its significant land bank, especially in the 
Southern and Eastern coasts, thereby strengthening its project pipeline for the segment.
The segment will also leverage on its newly 
reconstructed flagship property 'Cinnamon 
Bentota Beach', which was unable to realise 
its full potential post the reopening of the 
property given the closure of the country's 
borders and restrictions on global tourism in 
the past couple of years, to capture premium 
ARRs and further enhance the 'Cinnamon' 
brand. 
Maldivian Resorts 
The performance of the Maldivian Resorts 
segment is expected to continue its upward 
trajectory, given ongoing infrastructure 
developments and the Government's focus 
on developing the tourism industry. The 
Group remains confident of the ability to 
capitalise on the envisaged growth in tourism 
in the medium to long-term given the full 
complement of all four of its properties in full 
operation, as noted earlier. 
The segment will continue to work closely 
with key tourist market operators to better 
position and market its refurbished room 
inventory, whilst growing direct bookings 
through online platforms.
Hotel Management
The sector will continue to develop a pipeline 
of 'Cinnamon' events, aimed at developing 
Colombo as an entertainment hub in South 
Asia whilst 'Cinnamon Box Office' will 
continue to deliver world-class entertainment 
through acclaimed stage productions and 
variety shows, all of which help reinforce the 
'Cinnamon' brand.
Destination Management
Emphasis will be placed on opportunities 
beyond the traditional travel intermediary 
space. The sector will also focus on improving 
process efficiency, scalability of operations 
and productivity of the business in catering to 
evolving customer needs through the use of 
its digital platforms.
The potential for tourism still 
remains largely untapped 
given the country attracted 
only 2.3 million tourists prior 
to the Easter Sunday attacks 
in CY2019, whereas regional 
tourism has grown many-fold 
during the last decade.

153
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Property
The short-term impacts on the real estate market in the current environment is uncertain as there 
are many contrary variables which can impact the outlook; whilst there may be a moderation in 
demand for real estate from homeowners in the short-term due to the tightening macroconditions 
domestically and lower discretionary incomes, demand may witness an uptick on the back of 
increased investor interest in real estate as a long-term investment vehicle as a hedge against the 
inflationary environment. Further, considering the high inflationary environment and significant 
increase in the costs of construction, the pricing in any new development will also increase interest 
in the secondary markets, supported by the tapering of housing supply as the commencement of 
new projects is likely to slow down. The business will continue to proactively assess the landscape 
to understand evolving trends to navigate through the ongoing crisis. On the construction side, 
whilst the businesses are envisaged to face supply chain constraints and continued challenges 
in sourcing labour, the Group will leverage on its liquidity position and balance sheet strength to 
ensure that construction continues unimpeded, as detailed in the ensuing section. 
Looking beyond the short-term impacts, the Group is of the view that the underlying 
fundamentals of the Property industry group remain promising.
Immediate to Short-Term
Construction activity at both the 'Tri-Zen' and the 'Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort' project sites 
are currently continuing. Rapid increases in construction costs, driven by supply-side constraints 
globally, and domestically, coupled with shortages in the supply of key building material on 
the back of restrictions on imports and challenges in sourcing foreign currency for importing 
construction material, as witnessed in the recent past, is envisaged to be a key challenge for the 
business. 
The impact is more manageable for the 'Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort' given that the project 
has met most of its capital expenditure requirements with a majority of the remaining materials 
on site. The remainder of funding will continue to be met through a mix of equity commitments, 
through capital already raised in foreign currency, and sales of the remaining residential apartment 
inventory of the project. The challenges in the foreign currency market are expected to gradually 
reduce once the current liquidity challenges faced by the country are resolved, as detailed 
under the General section of this write-up. In addition, the Group will continue to leverage on 
its internally generated cash and liquidity position to ensure that construction will progress 
unhindered, to the extent possible. 
Challenges in labour mobilisation is envisaged to be more pronounced going forward with 
the issue of human capital flight and brain drain, on the back of the ongoing challenging 
macroeconomic environment. The current social unrest has also caused challenges in terms of 
attracting the skilled and semi-skilled resources required for the finishing works of the project. 
The sales momentum for the residential apartments at the 'Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort' has 
been slow in line with the trends seen in the luxury segments in the city. Despite this, a gradual 
pickup in sales momentum is envisaged, once the current economic crisis subsides, given a 
notable slowdown in the condominium pipeline, with almost no new additions in the luxury 
segment, coupled with encouraging interest at attractive price points in the secondary markets 
for units already sold. This is further justified through better valuations as the cost of constructing 
a similar apartment today would be significantly higher given the steep increases in construction 
related material and inputs. 
In contrast, sales at 'Tri-Zen' have been encouraging with the sales momentum reaching a record 
high by the end of the year under review; this trend is expected to continue albeit the short-term 
impact on sales from the ongoing macroeconomic circumstances in the country. The Rupee 
pricing model for apartment units at 'Tri-Zen', which mitigates the risk of fluctuating exchange 
rates for buyers, is envisaged to be a key differentiator in driving sales although selling prices of the 
remaining inventory will need to take into account the financial impact of the current challenges. 
Whilst the increasing interest rate environment 
may pose challenging for future sales, the 
inflationary pressures in the country may 
rekindle an interest in real estate sales given 
its widespread acceptance as a hedge against 
inflation. 
The 'Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort' is at the 
tail-end of its construction as outlined above, 
with the residential and office components 
already completed and units sold handed 
over for occupation. Operations of the 
hotel, branded 'Cinnamon Life Colombo', 
and the retail components are scheduled to 
commence in the first half of CY2023, in a 
phased manner. Once operational, the project 
is envisaged to be a key contributor to Group 
performance and an iconic development 
which will transform Colombo's skyline and be 
a catalyst in creating tourism demand into the 
city. The Group has commenced discussions 
with key tenants for the retail mall, with 
various alternatives being considered for the 
retail space to ensure unique attractions and 
offerings. 
The Group is of the view that the existing land 
bank is adequate to sustain a steady pipeline 
of projects in the long-term, especially 
given the recent full acquisition of Vauxhall 
Land Developments (Private) Limited, and 
accordingly, will continue to focus on the 
monetisation of its extensive land bank. As 
such, the Group does not foresee deployment 
of significant capital in the Property business. 
The Group has already gradually commenced 
the monetisation of the extensive land bank in 
Digana, through various real estate products 
under Rajawella Holdings (Private) Limited, 
which include scenic land parcels, town 
houses and villa developments.
On the real estate front, the Group expects the 
mall operations to be impacted on the back 
of a slowdown in consumer spending given 
the tightening monetary policy conditions 
and fiscal consolidation efforts of the CBSL, 
although this is not as material in the context 
of the Group.
Medium to Long-Term 
Given evolving business models, the Property 
business will assess the business landscape 
to understand possible lasting shifts in real 
restate demand including the various means 
by which properties can be built in tandem 
with such shifts, how properties would be 
priced, amongst others. Notwithstanding 
this and looking beyond the current 

154 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Outlook
macroeconomic landscape and the fiscal consolidation process, aspects such as increasing 
demand for commercial and residential spaces, an emerging middleclass demographic, a pipeline 
of public infrastructure projects, increasing urbanisation and connectivity are envisaged to drive 
growth in the property and real estate sectors.
Residential Real Estate
Prospects for the housing market in Colombo and the suburbs continue to be promising on the 
back of drivers such as the expanding middleclass demographic, increased commercial activity 
within Colombo and potential for increased GDP per capita. Recent investments and infrastructure 
spending channelled towards enhancing connectivity to the commercial centres of the country, 
will accelerate demand in these areas and outer regions.
With individuals increasingly moving towards urban areas as a result of improved connectivity and 
commercial activity, there is a robust and emerging market for affordable, multi-family housing 
solutions in close proximity to such commercial hubs.
The market for vertical and middle-income housing, in particular, is expected to experience 
significant growth given increasing land prices in Colombo and the high costs associated with 
the construction of single-family houses. The proportion of landed houses to apartments within 
Colombo is notably higher than its regional peers, indicating the need and potential for 'smart' 
housing solutions at affordable price points, which however need to be within the limited land 
bank available in Colombo.
(%)
(%)
Greater
Colombo
Singapore
Thailand
(Central
Bangkok)
Thailand
(Outskirts)
Malaysia
(Central KL)
Malaysia
(Greater KL)
India
(Chennai)
India
(Bangalore)
0
20
40
60
80
100
Apartments
Landed houses
90
10
95
5
80
20
60
40
70
30
50
50
55
45
65
35
~60-70 per cent of housing in regional mega cities, both luxury and mid-tier, are predominantly 
apartments to ensure maximum value creation within a limited land bank. However, apartment 
living in Colombo is ~10 per cent, despite the scarcity of land, representing an opportunity within 
the market.
Source: Company Analysis.
The Group will leverage on its high-brand equity and expertise of the industry to exploit such 
opportunities through projects such as 'Tri-Zen' as well as other projects under the 'Metropolitan' 
and 'Suburban' segments. The Group expects to monetise its extensive lank bank of prime real 
estate in Colombo and the suburbs to generate returns above the Group hurdle rates over the 
next 8-10 years given the scale and staggered development of the projects envisaged. To this 
end, the Group has earmarked a development at the 9.38-acre land held under Vauxhall Land 
Developments Limited primarily as 'Metropolitan' housing, complemented by other supporting 
commercial uses, which will be developed subject to market demand, construction landscape and 
supply dynamics. 
Commercial Real Estate
The opportunity for high-end 'A-Grade' office 
space is more pronounced as more global 
companies move to establish offices within 
the city, especially in the financial services and 
business process outsourcing (BPO) sectors. 
The transformation of Colombo as a financial 
and commercial hub through large-scale 
investment projects such as Port City Colombo 
coupled with increase in business activity is 
envisaged to drive demand in this segment. 
The absence of proper infrastructure and 
management facilities of the current supply 
in comparison to modern workspaces, also 
presents an opportunity. However, it is pivotal 
to note that demand may be tempered in 
the short to medium-term given a decline 
in business confidence and slowdown in 
investment. Based on market opportunity, 
the industry group will continue to expand 
its commercial real estate offering at the right 
time at attractive price points.
Real Estate Investment Trusts
In CY2020, the Colombo Stock Exchange 
(CSE) and the Securities and Exchange 
Commission of Sri Lanka (SEC) introduced 
a framework governing the creation of Real 
Estate Investment Trusts (REITs), which enabled 
property developers and real estate owners 
to transfer a notable portion of income 
generating, fully completed properties into 
REITs. Subsequently, amendments to the 
Inland Revenue Act (IRD) on tax incentives 
were incorporated to further support this 
structure. The Group is of the view that 
this special purpose vehicle will augur well 
for Sri Lanka and the industry, and, in this 
regard, businesses will proactively evaluate 
opportunities to monetise its assets when the 
market is conducive. 
The Group is of the view that 
the existing land bank is 
adequate to sustain a steady 
pipeline of projects in the 
long-term, especially given 
the recent full acquisition of 
Vauxhall Land Developments 
(Private) Limited, and 
accordingly, will continue to 
focus on the monetisation of 
its extensive land bank.

155
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Nations Trust Bank PLC (NTB) 
will focus its efforts on building 
resilience and sustainability 
through prioritising credit 
quality, margin management, 
return focused lending and 
financial stability.
Financial Services
Immediate to Short-Term
The current macroeconomic circumstances, 
whereby sharp increases in inflation and 
interest rates coupled with imminent fiscal 
consolidation measures are envisaged, are 
likely to result in a reduction in disposable 
income and moderation in consumer 
spending. Whilst it is premature to ascertain 
for how long this situation will prevail, this may 
disrupt new business and collections in the 
short-term and impact consumer sentiment 
and income, inducing policy lapses. However, 
the business aims to capitalise on digital 
capabilities built up in the past to minimise the 
overall impact on business. Greater awareness 
and interest in protection products and 
services post the COVID-19 pandemic will also 
help the business in managing the impact, 
to an extent. Emphasis will also be placed on 
expense control and cost optimisation.
Ensuring the concerns of employees and 
all stakeholders, including the agency force, 
are managed remain a key priority of the 
Insurance business. 
Nations Trust Bank PLC (NTB) will focus its efforts 
on building resilience and sustainability through 
prioritising credit quality, margin management, 
return focused lending and financial stability. 
The Bank's Tier I Capital and Total Capital 
Adequacy ratios as at 31 March 2022 were 
satisfactorily above regulatory levels at 11.8 per 
cent and 14.1 per cent, respectively. Supported 
by a strong capital base, healthy liquidity buffers 
and robust risk management models, the Bank 
is confident that it has the required resources 
to withstand the potential impacts arising from 
the current macroeconomic environment. To 
this end, the Bank will continue to proactively 
assess the developments in the environment in 
order to implement required actions with the 
aim of continuing to keep its financial stability 
and strength secure. 
The tightening monetary policy stance and the fiscal consolidation process is likely to result 
in lacklustre credit growth on the back of reduced consumer spending which will impact 
loan growth. Prolonged stresses may also result in an increase in non-performing loans and 
impairments, although the Bank will continue to monitor such exposures, particularly the credit 
quality of the portfolio rigorously and manage such impacts to the extent possible. An impairment 
provision of Rs.990 million was recognised on its portfolio of Sri Lanka Government securities 
denominated in foreign currency during the fourth quarter of 2021/22. NTB, however, has a 
relatively low exposure given that this investment portfolio accounts for only 3.6 per cent of the 
Bank's assets as at 31 March 2022. Additionally, the Bank will continue with the stringent cost 
management culture in place, particularly given inflationary pressures on its cost structure.
As noted in the JKH Annual Report 2020/21, the Director of Bank Supervision of the CBSL had 
informed John Keells Holdings PLC that the Monetary Board of CBSL has permitted the John 
Keells Group to retain its current shareholding of 29.52 per cent in the voting shares of NTB until 
31 December 2021 and to reduce it to 20 per cent on or before that date and to 15 per cent on or 
before 31 December 2022. JKH has requested for an extension of the deadline from the CBSL given 
the current environment.
Medium to Long-Term 
Insurance
Despite the immediate impacts that may materialise on business performance on account of 
the challenging landscape, domestic conditions are envisaged to remain resilient and rebound 
in the medium-term in tandem with a revival of the economy and improvement in confidence 
and disposable income post the fiscal consolidation process. A relatively low level of insurance 
penetration in comparison to regional markets, rising income levels and an ageing population is 
expected to fundamentally aid growth in the life insurance industry in Sri Lanka. The absence of 
a pension scheme for all citizens and the increasing prevalence of non-communicable diseases is 
also expected to increase demand for long-term health and annuity solutions. Union Assurance 
PLC (UA) is uniquely positioned to capitalise on the aforementioned opportunity, given its strong 
brand equity, diversified portfolio of products and digital know-how. 
Life insurance premium as a percentage of GDP (%)
Life insurance premium as a percentage of GDP (%)
Malaysia
Thailand
India
Vietnam
Indonesia
Philippines
Sri Lanka
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0
Global average: 3.35%
Sri Lanka has a relatively low level of insurance penetration in comparison to regional markets
Sri Lanka has a relatively low level of insurance penetration in comparison to regional markets
Source: Swiss Re sigma No 4 /2020.
The business will focus on diversifying its channels through an omni-channel distribution 
model and optimising bancassurance partnerships. To this end, although the agency channel 
is envisaged to be the key driver of revenue growth, the business will also focus on expanding 
the bancassurance and alternate channels, particularly through the development of innovative 
insurance products that meet the evolving needs of customers. UA will place emphasis on 
modular products designed to meet the specific requirements and new needs of the customers 
marketed though efficient and modern distribution channels. 
The business will continue to revolutionise the insurance landscape in Sri Lanka through ongoing 
innovative investments and a clear digital roadmap that focuses on enhancing customer 
convenience, achieving operational excellence and improving distribution capabilities. Capitalising 
on the vast data reserve, emphasis will be placed on data analytics for better insight on evaluating 
the market, developing innovative products and devising growth strategies to fundamentally 
enhance decision-making capability. 

156 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Outlook
The Insurance business will leverage on its 
new identity to attract a new generation of 
customers and augment its market presence. 
Continued focus will be placed on improving 
the employee value proposition, to drive 
further value for all employees. The business 
will also execute various strategies aimed at 
the continuous improvement of the agency 
force through skill development and the 
retention of the trained talent pool.
Banking
Looking beyond these ongoing challenges 
and the current crisis, the prospects for the 
Banking sector continue to be promising with 
NTB uniquely positioned to capitalise on this 
opportunity. Recent investments and focus 
towards strengthening its digital infrastructure, 
strong customer relationships and flexible 
solutions have placed NTB in a unique position 
to capture the opportunities presented by the 
industry's ongoing digital transformation and 
strengthen its market positioning.
The Bank will further augment its digital 
infrastructure and processes to ensure better 
customer service, innovative solutions and 
efficiency in operations. The continued 
expansion and positioning of 'FriMi' as a 
lifestyle application and digital bank through 
the integration of various lifestyle solutions, 
new features and enhanced user interface, 
will remain an area of focus for the Bank in its 
digitisation drive.
Investment in upskilling the human capital of 
the business to thrive in an increasingly digitised 
industry, driving cost and process efficiencies by 
leveraging on past investments in automation, 
lean process re-engineering and activity-based 
costing measurement frameworks remain a 
priority in the medium-term.
Stockbroking
The Group expects a revival in foreign investor 
participation once reasonable clarity towards 
economic, social and political stability is 
conveyed, which will contribute to improved 
activity in the CSE. John Keells Stock Brokers 
(JKSB) will continue to cultivate foreign tie-ups 
in order to strengthen its presence amongst 
foreign institutional investors. The business 
will simultaneously work towards expanding 
its local client base aimed at local corporates, 
fund managers and high net-worth 
individuals.
Other, including Information Technology and 
Plantation Services 
Information Technology
Immediate to Short-Term
The COVID-19 pandemic and the resultant restrictions on movement and social distancing 
protocols, had compelled businesses worldwide to adopt and implement digital solutions, to an 
extent never envisaged possible. Such adoption has also tested the digital posture and efficacy 
of business continuity and crisis management plans. Sri Lanka, and the Group's IT businesses 
continue to be well positioned to leverage on its strategic partnerships and capabilities to offer 
smart software solutions, especially in the areas of cloud computing, software as a service (SaaS) 
and automation, whilst concurrently exploiting potential opportunities for managed services, 
outsourcing and offshoring.
The primary challenge for the Group's IT businesses stemming from the ongoing macroeconomic 
crisis is the power shortage where there are daily disruptions, for a period of time, in supply. Whilst 
the business has managed the impact on business operations thus far, prolonged power outages 
will impact performance of not only Group businesses, but the competitiveness of the industry, 
as a whole. Challenges in labour mobilisation is envisaged to be more pronounced going forward 
with the issue of human capital flight and brain drain, on the back of the ongoing challenging 
macroeconomic environment.
Medium to Long-Term 
The business expects continued adoption of information technology solutions in tandem with the 
'new normal' on the back of the higher adoption of digital solutions. To this end, the Group expects 
to see greater traction in the adoption of cloud-based solutions and services across industries, 
with emphasis on cloud, SaaS, automation, advanced analytics, application modernisation, cyber 
resilience and platform/ecosystem thinking, among others. Data is envisaged to become the core 
ingredient driving the 'new normal' in terms of driving personalisation across the value chain and 
digital transformation will become a key imperative for most businesses to stay relevant and drive 
innovation.
John Keells IT (JKIT) will leverage on its strategic partnerships with SAP, Microsoft and UiPath, to 
expand regionally to capture high-end accounts and increase business reach in Sri Lanka, the 
Middle East and North Africa (MENA) and the Asia Pacific (APAC). The business will also focus on 
delivering innovative consultative solutions and services across the five value stacks of 'Strategy', 
'Core', 'Cloud', 'Platforms' and 'Ecosystems', across multiple industries. JKIT will also place emphasis 
on building and expanding its capabilities and also look to expand its portfolio of offerings beyond 
core enterprise resource planning (ERP), enterprise applications, managed development centres, 
thereby expanding its value proposition and competitive advantage.
The low penetration of business process management (BPM) services in Sri Lanka and the 
increasing demand for outsourced services, particularly non-core functions, is expected to 
augur well for the BPM industry in Sri Lanka. Infomate is uniquely positioned to capitalise on this 
opportunity, given its strong track record and business capability in catering to offshore clients 
from varying geographies and industries. Against this backdrop, the business is envisaged to 
continue its growth momentum, increasing its market share through the acquisition of new 
clients, while focusing on further diversifying its operations and improving the efficiency of its 
services through automation and digitisation of processes.

157
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Plantation Services
Immediate to Short-Term
The prospects for the Plantation Services sector remain positive, given its export-oriented nature, 
despite the challenging macroeconomic circumstances. Whilst tea production has come under 
pressure on the back of the Government's sudden shift to organic fertiliser in CY2021 with an 
import ban imposed on agrochemicals, which significantly affected yields of locally produced food 
items, including tea, causing shortages in market, this stance has since then been reversed with tea 
production gradually ramping up. On a positive note, the depreciation of the Rupee in particular 
will augur well for the country in ensuring Ceylon tea remains competitive regionally and globally, 
despite the notable domestic cost escalations. This is further augmented by increasing demand 
for Ceylon tea globally and regionally, especially given its superior quality and taste profile. The 
increase in global commodity and food prices has resulted in record prices for tea, globally, which 
has benefited the industry in Sri Lanka.
Potential headwinds to the positive outlook include unfavourable weather patterns that may have 
an impact on tea prices and volumes, a potential reduction in global oil prices, continued impacts 
and disruptions from the Russia-Ukraine crisis and a devaluation of currencies in major tea drinking 
nations.
Increasing costs remain a key concern for the business and the industry as whole in ensuing 
competitiveness. Given the current challenges, the business will place emphasis on managing its 
working capital on the back of the tightening domestic macroeconomic conditions which may 
trigger difficulties in collections. The business will continue to ensure prudent cost management 
and productivity enhancing measures are in place to navigate through the ongoing crisis and 
unforeseen circumstances. 
Medium to Long-Term (Beyond COVID-19)
Global demand for tea is expected to gain traction on the back of an increase in tea drinking 
trends globally and a global recovery fuelled by strengthening currencies in major tea drinking 
nations and steady oil prices. Growing demand for low grown tea from traditional markets in 
the Middle East and Russia and new demand from emerging tea drinking countries such as 
Germany and the United States is expected to augur well for Sri Lanka. Adverse and increasingly 
unpredictable weather conditions on account of climate change and significant competition 
from other tea-producing nations such as Kenya, India and China remain as key challenges for the 
business. The business will also continue to adopt increased regulations and controls on chemical 
usage in the tea plantation industry to meet maximum residue levels (MRLs).
The strategic priorities for TSF for the medium-term are:
 y
Placing emphasis on the quality of its products whilst also diversifying its manufacturing mix to 
meet market trends and mitigate risks.
 y
Cost optimisation and improving factory utilisation.
 y
Maintaining its reputation as a high-quality producer to the market, while exploring 
opportunities to cater to high-value market segments.
 y
Continual evaluation of opportunities arising from the emerging Chinese market for Ceylon 
orthodox black tea.
The Warehousing business will continue to work closely with its stakeholders to maintain and 
improve relationships while increasing warehouse utilisation. The business will also evaluate 
expansion opportunities, based on requirements and market trends.
The primary challenge for 
the Group's IT businesses 
stemming from the ongoing 
macroeconomic crisis is the 
power shortage where there 
are daily disruptions, for a 
period of time, in supply. 
Whilst the business has 
managed the impact on 
business operations thus far, 
prolonged power outages will 
impact performance of not 
only Group businesses, but 
the competitiveness of the 
industry, as a whole.

158 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Strategy, Resource Allocation and 
Portfolio Management
The Strategy, Resource Allocation and Portfolio Management section aims 
to provide detailed insights to the manner in which investment decisions 
of the Group are made by analysing the performance of the overall 
portfolio, the overall strategic direction of the Group and the means by 
which capital is allocated for investments.
The unprecedented events over the past three years, commencing from the Easter Sunday attacks in April 2019, the impacts of the COVID-19 
pandemic and the ongoing macroeconomic, political and social uncertainty has naturally impacted, the performance of the portfolio. However, 
the long-term strategic direction of the portfolio and the coming to fruition of all the investments over the last few years will hold the Group in 
good stead while the ability to navigate through the current headwinds will be demonstrated in the 'strength of fundamentals' of the Group as 
we emerge from this crisis.
Careful planning and oversight to enable 
Group businesses to adapt, whilst managing 
liquidity and financing is of pivotal importance 
from a portfolio planning point of view, and in 
this regard the Group will continue to leverage 
on such fundamentals which are based on 
principles of governance, accountability and 
transparency to ensure continued resilience.
In managing the Group's portfolio, the Group 
places emphasis on identifying and pursuing 
growth prospects that would help achieve the 
Group's vision of 'Building businesses that are 
leaders in the region' and its medium to long-
term objectives. In this light, businesses adopt 
a systematic approach to resource allocation 
and strategy formulation that is aligned with 
the core values, overall direction and strategies 
of the Group.
Following are some of the key strategic 
initiatives pursued across Group businesses 
in furtherance of achieving its short, medium 
and long-term objectives.
 y
Creation of sustainable value is at the 
forefront when making operational 
decisions. Group-wide strategy focuses on 
driving growth and value that is consistent, 
competitive, profitable and responsible. 
In this regard, businesses place emphasis 
on maximising value by augmenting 
revenue channels, increasing market share 
and exploring opportunities by fostering 
a culture of disruptive innovation and 
digitisation.
 y
Focus is placed on maintaining flexible 
cost structures to ensure optimisation of 
costs and thereby driving efficiencies and 
profit maximisation. The Group's emphasis 
on cost optimisation, prudence and agility, 
has continued to assist businesses in 
enduring through challenging periods. 
The Group's pandemic response in the last 
couple of years is an apt example of this, 
with various expense control measures 
being undertaken at different stages of the 
pandemic, with the objective of preserving 
cash and managing its liquidity position.
The Group is conscious of 
the prevailing and emerging 
environment and is satisfied 
that the balance of the 
composition of businesses 
of the core portfolio are 
appropriate given the diverse 
nature of revenue streams as 
well as the direct and indirect 
exposure to foreign currency 
denominated income streams 
through the Leisure, Ports 
and Shipping, and Bunkering 
businesses.
The Group is of the view 
that the fundamentals and 
potential of the industries 
the Group operates in remain 
largely unchanged, as the 
demand drivers underpinning 
the business would still be 
relevant in the medium to 
long-term, although there 
may be changes to operating 
models in some areas.
As evident from the past, the Group strives 
to constantly align its portfolio of businesses 
with the growth sectors of the economy, 
both current and futuristic, and continuously 
endeavours to ensure that capital resources 
are efficiently employed in a manner that 
will expand the reach of the portfolio, ensure 
relevance, and give the ability to compete, 
both locally and internationally. The Group 
believes the current portfolio continues to 
serve that purpose and that its investments 
over the last few years, and planned 
investments, in these core areas reinforce this 
strategy.
The Group is of the view that the 
fundamentals and potential of the 
industries the Group operates in remain 
largely unchanged, as the demand drivers 
underpinning the business would still 
be relevant in the medium to long-term, 
although there may be changes to operating 
models in some areas. The current economic 
challenges have heightened the need for 
diversification, particularly across geographies 
and the need for offshore revenue streams 
considering the foreign currency challenges 
faced by the country. The Group is 
conscious of the prevailing and emerging 
environment and is satisfied that the balance 
of the composition of businesses of the core 
portfolio are appropriate given the diverse 
nature of revenue streams as well as the direct 
and indirect exposure to foreign currency 
denominated income streams through 
the Leisure, Ports and Shipping, Bunkering 
and Information Technology businesses. 
The Group's capital allocation through the 
long-term investment in the West Container 
Terminal-1 project of the Port of Colombo will 
see a further bolstering of its foreign currency 
income streams over the medium-term, in 
addition to the short-term boost from tourism 
once the country situation stabilises.

159
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
 y
Given that continued brand development is essential in fostering customer loyalty, enhancing 
business image and establishing a more customer-centric identity, Group strategy also focuses 
on increasing brand equity through a comprehensive understanding of its target market, value 
proposition, internal alignment to the brand promise and vision.
 y
Group strategy also revolves around recruiting, developing and retaining a talented pool of 
employees. Over the years, the Group has attracted the best and the brightest talent towards 
building a strong team that reflects the diversity of the customers we serve. The Group engages 
and encourages employees to perform to the best of their abilities through a performance-
oriented culture founded on ethical and transparent behaviour, which, in turn, promotes 
sustainable and profitable growth. In executing all plans and strategies of the business units, 
talent management is scrutinised closely and given significant prominence.
 y
Another aspect of Group strategy focuses on re-engineering, process improvement, enterprise 
risk management and quality management in ensuring that business processes and 
governance checks across the Group are efficient, agile, robust and in line with international 
best practice. The Group's digitisation drive aimed at identifying emerging and current 
disruptive business trends and developing the digital quotient (DQ) of individuals and 
businesses is also believed to increase the productivity and efficiency through the employment 
of digital technologies and disruptive business models.
 y
Group strategy places significant emphasis on minimising environmental impacts through 
impact analysis and stakeholder engagement. Strategies are governed by a comprehensive 
environmental management system and Group-wide sustainability goals which were renewed 
during the year under review. All operational decisions consider the impact on the Group's 
sustainability goals and ensure that all possible actions are being taken towards reducing waste 
and adverse environmental impacts.
 y
Group's diversity, equity and inclusion (DE&I) strategy revolves around advancing a culture of 
equitable inclusion amongst its workforce and value chain and ensuring that the dignity and 
diversity of all employees and value chain partners are respected. The 'One JKH' initiative will 
enable the Group to attract and retain the best talent in Sri Lanka as well as foster productivity 
throughout Group value chains and communities.
 y
Focus is also placed on ensuring that communities develop relevant life skills, and the external 
environment is sustainable under the corporate social responsibility (CSR) mandate of 
'Empowering the Nation for Tomorrow'. The CSR initiatives of the Group are centrally planned 
and implemented by the John Keells Foundation.
Regular Assessment of Risk and 
Reward
In measuring business performance and 
continuity of operations, all verticals and 
businesses within each industry group are 
regularly assessed on key dimensions such as 
customer orientation, supplier concentration, 
bargaining power of both customers and 
suppliers, joint venture (JV) partner affiliations 
and dependence, cyclicality, regulatory 
structure, performance against the industry 
and Sri Lankan economy, procedural, 
regulatory or technological factors that 
obstruct or restrict operations and the current 
and potential competitive landscape, among 
others.
The capital structure for new ventures is stress-
tested under various scenarios, which often 
leads to taking proactive measures, particularly 
in managing potential foreign exchange risks 
during both the development and operating 
phases. Further, ongoing projects are regularly 
tested and evaluated in partnership with 
independent and recognised parties to ensure 
clear, impartial judgment on matters relating 
to capital structure, economic implications 
and key risks.
Financial Filter
Cornerstone of the 
decision criteria based 
on the JKH hurdle rate 
Growth Filter
Evaluates the industry 
attractiveness and 
growth potential based 
on the industry life cycle
Strategic Fit
Evaluates the long-term competitive 
advantage of a business/industry by 
closely evaluating the competitive 
forces, specific industry/business 
risks, ability to control value drivers 
and the competencies and critical 
success factors inherent to the Group
Complexity Filter
Considers factors such 
as sustainability, senior 
management time and the 
risk to brand image and 
reputation in conjunction 
with the anticipated returns
Given the Holding Company's diversified interests, resource allocation and portfolio management are imperative in creating value to all 
stakeholders through evaluation of the Group's fundamentals which are cantered on the forms of Capital. Whilst the Group is presented with 
opportunities in diverse industries, it continues to follow its four-step, structured methodology indicated in the ensuing section, in evaluating its 
portfolio and thereby guiding investment and divestment decisions.
The Project Risk Assessment Committee, a sub-committee of the Board, provides the Board with increased visibility of large-scale new 
investments and assists the Board to assess risks associated with significant investments, particularly at the initial stages of discussions, by 
providing feedback and suggestions in relation to mitigating risks and structuring arrangements. Intervention is mandatory as per the committee 
scope, if the investment cost exceeds a board mandated threshold.

160 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Strategy, Resource Allocation and 
Portfolio Management
JKH's Hurdle Rate
The present hurdle rate of JKH is at 15 per cent 
which is a function of the weighted average 
cost of capital (WACC). The WACC is derived 
from the Group's cost of equity, cost of debt, 
target capital structure, tax rates and the value 
creation premium required over and above 
the WACC. Whilst the cost of debt has followed 
an increasing trend during the period under 
review, and, more significantly in April 2022 post 
the monetary policy tightening by the Central 
Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL), the hurdle rate has not 
been revised on the basis that it is a long-term 
target, and any revision would be warranted 
only if the above factors are expected to sustain 
over the long-term. While the cost of debt 
has increased significantly in the immediate 
horizon, the Group will monitor the evolution 
of rates and the tax framework in determining 
if an adjustment to the long-term hurdle rate 
is warranted. This will be assessed once there 
is clarity on where long-term rates will settle 
post implementation of the fiscal and monetary 
policy reforms which are expected during the 
ensuing year. 
Even though this hurdle rate is utilised as the 
initial benchmark rate in evaluating feasibility 
and opportunity in all projects of the Group, 
project specific modifiers are also used in order 
to get a holistic view of the project under 
consideration. As such, a country specific risk 
modifier would be applied for investments 
with a high proportion of foreign currency 
investment costs and operational cash flows. 
To this end, the modifier would use a project 
specific cost of debt and foreign currency 
denominated equity return benchmark 
commensurate with the investment, which in 
turn would be comparatively analysed against 
projects with similar risk profiles.
Conceptualising Portfolio 
Performance
The Group aims to strike a balance between 
optimising immediate portfolio returns against 
returns in the future. As such, emphasis is 
placed on both return generating capabilities 
of the business against its capital employed 
and the earnings potential of the business 
or project. This is particularly relevant with 
projects such as the 'Cinnamon Life Integrated 
Resort' which has a long gestation period 
which impacts the short-term portfolio returns 
during the development phase of the project. 
The Group is conscious of the quantum of 
capital deployed to businesses, and to this 
end, places a strong emphasis on evaluating 
projects in a manner which optimises capital 
efficiency, especially in capital intensive businesses such as Leisure. In order to manage the 
effective quantum of capital deployed, the Group will continue to explore investment structuring 
options such as asset-light investment models for future hotel projects and monetise the land 
bank of the Group in such a manner that generates a return from the strategic parcels of land held.
Being a portfolio of businesses, the Group has befitted from contributions from different businesses 
at varying points of time based on their growth cycle and correlation with overall economic growth 
in the country. Over the last few years, the Group has witnessed a shift in the composition of its 
earnings with a greater contribution from higher ROCE earning industry groups such as Consumer 
Foods, Retail, and Financial Services. Looking beyond the short-term impacts from the recent and 
ongoing challenges, the conscious and planned strategies of driving growth in these industry groups 
is expected to continue contributing towards an improvement in the ROCE for the Group, as seen in 
recent performance, whilst concurrently driving absolute earnings growth.
Insights – Managing the Group's foreign currency exposure 
From a portfolio management point of view, managing the Group's exposure to foreign 
currency fluctuations is of utmost priority. The steep depreciation of the Rupee witnessed 
during the latter end of the year had the following implications on the Group's financial position:
 y
Gross debt recorded a significant increase, given the translation impact on USD 175 million 
long-term loan facility at the Holding Company and the USD 225 million long-term loan 
facility and a six-month bridging facility of USD 100 million at Waterfront Properties (Private) 
Limited.
 y
However, the Holding Company maintained a strong net cash position. The foreign 
currency cash holdings include the funds earmarked for the equity infusions of the 
'Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort' project and the funds raised for the Group's investment 
pipeline via the debt drawdown of the long-term loan facility from the International 
Finance Corporation (IFC) and the private placement of ordinary shares to ADB. 
 y
At a Group level, the translation risk is also largely hedged 'naturally' as a result of the 
conscious strategy of matching liabilities against foreign currency denominated assets and 
revenue streams, to the extent possible.
 y
It is pertinent to note that the pressures on the exchange rate exposure arising from the 
'Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort' project is mitigated to a large extent as the functional 
currency of Waterfront Properties (Private) Limited, its project company, is US Dollars. 
Similarly, at present, there is no foreign exchange translation risk on the IFC loan since the 
cash is retained in foreign currency at the Holding Company.
 y
The Group will continue to manage its foreign currency portfolio and investment pipeline 
optimally, by matching liabilities against corresponding assets, where possible, particularly 
given the ongoing constraints in the domestic foreign currency markets.
Insights
The business outlook for 2022/23 cannot be fully ascertained at this point of time given 
the uncertain and evolving situation on the economic, political and social front, particularly 
given the criticality of developments on stabilising the political landscape together with 
the Government's engagement with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and creditors of 
foreign currency loans over the ensuing couple of weeks. In this light, the Group will continue 
to ensure that strategies and mechanisms are in place to afford the Group, the flexibility and 
agility to fund its investments in an optimal manner whilst providing additional support to 
the Group's liquidity requirements using the available depth of resources. 
During the year under review, the Group raised funds through a private placement of ordinary 
shares to the Asian Development Bank (ADB) for the LKR equivalent of USD 50 million; the first 
phase of a two-phase transaction. From a portfolio management perspective, the increase 
in equity, resulting in a higher capital employed, is expected to have a negative impact on 
ROCE in the immediate-term, although with improvement envisaged post the deployment/
use of such funds. Whilst there is an impact on ROCE, more importantly, the raising of equity 
capital in foreign currency from offshore has strengthened the balance sheet of the Group 
considering the current market disruptions on the back of the scarcity in foreign currency. 

161
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
0
80
60
40
20
120
100
140
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
180
200
240
220
260
280
300
320
340
360
380
400
ROCE (%)
Retail - 17.6
Financial Services - 26.6
Consumer Foods - 20.8
Information Technology - 18.6
Destination Management - 1.7
Hotel Management - 133.9
Property (excl. Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort) - 3.9
Transportation - 2.2
Sri Lankan Resorts - (4.9)
Colombo Hotels - (1.4)
Maldivian Resorts - 1.9
Plantation Services - 7.0
Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort - 0.8
Average effective capital employed (Rs.bn)
Hurdle Rate - 15.0
 Whilst the ensuing section details the high-level impacts to ROCE, for a detailed discussion on the 
impacts to EBIT and capital employed, as applicable, refer the Industry Group Review section - page 70
Long-Term Aspirations
The Group continually endeavours to deliver value to our stakeholders, particularly shareholders. 
To this end, the Group has in place long-term financial goals which are continually monitored to 
ensure that the Group is moving progressively towards its vision and objectives, although recent 
performance has been impacted, and, to an extent distorted, by the effects of the intensive capital 
expenditure cycle of the Group, the Easter Sunday attacks in 2019/20 and the COVID-19 pandemic 
thereafter. The Group believes these targets are still relevant in the medium- to long-term and is 
confident of reaching these targets in such a time horizon.
Indicator (%)
Goal
Achievement
2021/22
2020/21
2019/20*
EBIT growth**
>20
166.7
(41.3)
(25.5)
EPS growth (fully diluted)
>20
318.0
(49.3)
(35.9)
Cash EPS growth (fully diluted)
>20
172.0
4.5
(24.7)
Long-term return on capital employed (ROCE)
15
4.2
2.1
4.2
Long-term return on equity (ROE)
18
7.5
2.2
4.5
Net debt (cash) to equity***
50
23.5
20.0
14.0
* Growth rates for 2019/20 have been adjusted for the impact of SLFRS 16 - Leases. The capital employed and equity for 
2018/19 has been adjusted in arriving at the average capital employed and equity base, as applicable, for 2019/20. 
**EBIT growth excludes the impact of exchange gains/losses.
***Excludes lease liabilities.
Performance of the Portfolio
Capital employed has significantly increased as a result of the 'Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort' 
project and its gestation period, whilst the long-term financing facility obtained from IFC in 
2020/21 and the recent private placement to ADB has also contributed to a notable increase in 
the capital base, all of which have negative impacts on ROCE. These strategic choices, however, 
are catalysts for future growth and risk mitigation; while the Group is cognisant of the short-term 
effects on performance, priority has always been given to striking a balance between short-term 
performance and the accretive value creation in the long-term. 
As seen in the portfolio graph below, a 
significant portion of capital is deployed in 
Leisure and the 'Cinnamon Life Integrated 
Resort'. Whilst these have resulted in a 
significant 'drag' on the ROCE of the Group, 
the commencement of operations at 
'Cinnamon Life' will contribute towards a 
positive ROCE along with the recovery in 
tourists arrivals, particularly since the Group 
is poised to benefit from having its full 
complement of hotels available to cater to the 
'pent up' demand, once the current situation 
in the country stabilises.
Capital employed has 
significantly increased as a 
result of the 'Cinnamon Life 
Integrated Resort' project and 
its gestation period, whilst 
the long-term financing 
facility obtained from IFC 
in 2020/21 and the recent 
private placement to ADB has 
also contributed to a notable 
increase in the capital base, 
all of which have negative 
impacts on ROCE.

162 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Strategy, Resource Allocation and 
Portfolio Management
Transportation
ROCE
(%)
=
EBIT 
margin 
(%)
x
Asset 
turnover
x
Capital 
structure 
leverage
2021/22
2.2
1.3
1.40
1.16
2020/21
15.1
12.6
1.09
1.10
The reduction in EBIT margins is predominantly attributed to the Group's 
Ports and Shipping business, South Asia Gateway Terminal (SAGT), 
which includes a non-cash goodwill impairment against the original 
investment in lieu of the impending end of the concession period of 
SAGT based on the 30-year build, operate and transfer (BOT) agreement 
with the Government. Increased cost pressures in the Logistics business 
also impacted margins. If the one-off impact of the non-cash goodwill 
impairment is removed, the adjusted ROCE of the Transportation 
industry group would be at 18.0 per cent.
Consumer Foods
ROCE
(%)
=
EBIT 
margin 
(%)
x
Asset 
turnover
x
Capital 
structure 
leverage
2021/22
20.8
12.0
1.19
1.46
2020/21
21.5
14.9
1.05
1.38
Revenue of the industry group noted encouraging growth on the 
back of strong volume growth, positively impacting the asset turnover 
ratio. However, the positive impact of this on ROCE was offset against 
increased cost pressures on the back of rising input costs, restrictions on 
imports, and constraints on foreign currency liquidity which contributed 
to a decrease in the EBIT margin. The price increases undertaken by the 
businesses across select products during the year, helped the businesses 
in managing the overall impact on margins, to an extent.
Retail
ROCE
(%)
=
EBIT 
margin 
(%)
x
Asset 
turnover
x
Capital 
structure 
leverage
2021/22
17.6
5.4
1.88
1.73
2020/21
13.5
4.7
1.83
1.58
The EBIT margin of the Supermarket business noted an improvement 
driven by a notable increase in same store sales. Margins were also aided 
by stringent expense management procedures rolled-out. 
The Office Automation business also noted an improvement in margins 
due to the implementation of stringent cost controls despite pressures 
faced on restrictions on imports, constraints in opening letters of credit 
and foreign currency liquidity pressures in the market.
Insights
Waterfront Properties (Private) Limited (WPL), the project company 
of 'Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort' refinanced the USD 395 million 
syndicated loan in December 2021 through a USD 225 million 
long-term loan facility and a six-month bridging facility of USD 100 
million, which was structured in order to align with the maturity 
date of July 2022 of the original USD 395 million facility.
 y
The USD 225 million facility was concluded at a rate similar to 
the previous facility taking into account step-down pricing 
mechanisms based on pre-agreed triggers. 
 y
The facility is a 5-year loan with a 2-year grace period and 
back-ended capital payments.
Leisure
ROCE
(%)
=
EBIT 
margin 
(%)
x
Asset 
turnover
x
Capital 
structure 
leverage
2021/22
0.0
(0.2)
0.17
1.10
2020/21
(8.2)
(136.5)
0.05
1.10
The continued impact of the COVID-19 pandemic had an adverse 
impact across all Leisure businesses, particularly in Sri Lanka. However, 
the business recorded a significant turnaround in performance, 
particularly during the fourth quarter of 2021/22.
Property
ROCE
(%)
=
EBIT 
margin 
(%)
x
Asset 
turnover
x
Capital 
structure 
leverage
2021/22
3.9
23.3
0.15
1.09
2020/21
0.0
(0.6)
0.05
1.07
*The ROCE of the Property industry group excludes the 'Cinnamon Life Integrated 
Resort'.
Improvement in the ROCE is primarily driven by continued revenue 
recognition on the back of the encouraging sales momentum at the 'Tri-
Zen' residential development project coupled with fair value gains on 
investment property at Vauxhall Land Developments Limited.
Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort
During the year, Rs.13.55 billion of cash equity was infused to 'Cinnamon 
Life Integrated Resort' to finance the development costs of the project. 
As at 31 March 2022, the cumulative figures for equity infused and debt 
stood at Rs.71.40 billion and Rs.101.41 billion, respectively. 
The aforementioned equity investment at the 'Cinnamon Life Integrated 
Resort' includes the land transferred by JKH and its subsidiaries at the 
inception of the project. Note that all project related costs including 
interest costs, unless explicitly mentioned, are capitalised in accordance 
with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRS/LKAS).

163
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Insights
The ROCE of the Other, including Information Technology and 
Plantation Services industry group has been depressed in the recent 
years primarily on account of the capital raising at the Holding 
Company. The foreign currency cash holdings include the funds 
earmarked for the equity infusions of the 'Cinnamon Life Integrated 
Resort' project and the funds raised for the Group's investment 
pipeline via the debt drawdown from the IFC term loan facility and 
the private placement of ordinary shares to ADB. 
Whilst the cash balance of the Group is currently generating returns 
below the Group's hurdle rate exerting pressure on Group ROCE, 
the presence of adequate cash reserves enables the Group to 
manage its liquidity requirements better, particularly in navigating 
operations and investments in the current volatile macroeconomic 
environment. 
The Group will continue to focus on ensuring this position is 
preserved with a focus on further enhancing its funding lines 
proactively ahead of any future requirements.
Group Return on Capital Employed
ROCE
(%)
=
EBIT 
margin 
(%)
x
Asset 
turnover
x
Capital 
structure 
leverage
2021/22
4.2
8.7
0.39
1.24
2020/21
2.1
5.5
0.30
1.28
Group Return on Equity
ROCE
(%)
=
EBIT 
margin 
(%)
x
Asset 
turnover
x
Capital 
structure 
leverage
2021/22
7.5
3.3
0.99
2.33
2020/21
2.2
0.8
1.21
2.20
Portfolio Movements
Portfolio movements over the past five years are illustrated below.
Financial Services
ROCE
(%)
=
EBIT 
margin 
(%)
x
Asset 
turnover
x
Capital 
structure 
leverage
2021/22
26.6
20.7
0.32
4.00
2020/21
17.3
16.1
0.31
3.50
Improvement in ROCE was driven by higher EBIT margins in the Banking 
business as a result of various cost optimisation strategies and efficiency 
enhancing initiatives whilst the Insurance business was driven by a 
growth in gross written premiums, despite the challenging external 
landscape.
Other, including Information Technology and Plantation 
Services
ROCE
(%)
=
EBIT 
margin 
(%)
x
Asset 
turnover
x
Capital 
structure 
leverage
2021/22
5.2
130.9
0.04
1.05
2020/21
4.9
73.6
0.06
1.04
ROCE of the Information Technology sector decreased to 18.6 per cent 
[2020/21: 20.9 per cent] due to a decline in EBIT margins which was 
driven by increased cost pressures during the year under review. 
The deterioration of the ROCE in the Plantation Services sector to 7.0 per 
cent [2020/21: 9.8 per cent] was on account of a decrease in profitability 
and margins. 
The ROCE of the Holding Company was impacted by an increase in 
equity on account of the private placement of ordinary shares to ADB 
amounting to the LKR equivalent of USD 50 million and in lieu of the 
translation impact on its foreign currency debt stemming from the 
steep depreciation in the Rupee towards the latter end of the year under 
review, as outlined previously. 
FY18
FY19
FY20
FY21
FY22
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
Transportation
Consumer Foods
Retail
Leisure
Property (including Cinnamon Life)
Financial Services
Other, incl. Information
Technology and Plantation Services 
Capital employed
(Rs.bn)

164 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Strategy, Resource Allocation and 
Portfolio Management
2018/19
2019/20
2020/21
2021/22
Invested Rs.6.75 billion in 
Waterfront Properties (Private) 
Limited.
Invested Rs.10.35 billion in 
Waterfront Properties (Private) 
Limited.
Invested Rs.8.42 billion in 
Waterfront Properties (Private) 
Limited.
Invested Rs.13.55 billion in 
Waterfront Properties (Private) 
Limited.
Invested Rs.164 million in Glennie 
Properties (Private) Limited, to 
purchase 12.12 perches of land in 
Glennie Street, Colombo 2.
Invested Rs.95.4 million in 
Nations Trust Bank PLC to 
purchase 1.15 million non-voting 
shares.
Invested Rs.5.98 billion in JK 
Land (Private) Limited, increasing 
the shareholding in Vauxhall 
Land Developments (Private) 
Limited to 86.7 per cent from 
60.0 per cent. Committed to 
infuse a further Rs.2.99 billion on 
or before 24 September 2021 
to fully acquire Vauxhall Land 
Developments (Private) Limited.
Invested Rs.1.94 billion in JK Land 
(Private) Limited. 
Further to this, JK Land acquired 
the remaining 13.3 per cent 
equity stake in Vauxhall Land 
Developments (Private) Limited, 
from Finlays Colombo Limited for 
a consideration of Rs.2.99 billion.
Invested Rs.1.09 billion in JK Land 
(Private) Limited for the purchase 
of 98.88 perches of land in Tickell 
Road, Colombo 8.
KHL invested Rs.466 million 
in Ceylon Holiday Resorts 
Limited for the refurbishment of 
'Cinnamon Bentota Beach'.
Invested Rs.215 million in 
preference shares in Saffron 
Aviation (Private) Limited.
Invested Rs.2.86 billion in 
Colombo West International 
Container Terminal (Private) 
Limited.
Invested Rs.1.06 billion in LogiPark 
International (Private) Limited for 
the construction of a multi-use 
international logistics centre.
KHL invested Rs.145 million 
in Indra Hotels and Resorts 
Kandy (Private) Limited, for the 
preliminary construction work of 
'Cinnamon Red Kandy'.
KHL further invested Rs.105 
million in Indra Hotels and 
Resorts Kandy (Private) Limited, 
for the construction work of 
'Cinnamon Red Kandy'.
Invested Rs.74 million in 
preference shares in Saffron 
Aviation (Private) Limited.
John Keells Hotels PLC (KHL) 
invested Rs.817 million in Ceylon 
Holiday Resorts Limited and 
increased its shareholding from 
99.1 per cent to 99.3 per cent.
Invested Rs.16 million in Inchcape 
Mackinnon Mackenzie Shipping 
(Private) Limited.
Further to the investment made 
in 2017/18, CCS invested a further 
Rs.450 million in The Colombo Ice 
Company (Private) Limited.
The Group reduced its effective 
holding of UA by 2.36 per cent to 
90.0 per cent for a consideration 
of Rs.290 million to fulfil the 
minimum public holding 
requirement on the 'Diri Savi' 
Board.
Divested 98.88 perches of land 
in Tickell Road, Colombo 8, for a 
consideration of Rs.1.14 billion.
Divested 2.66 acres of land held 
under KHL in Nuwara Eliya, for a 
consideration of Rs.362 million. 
Investments
Divestments
Significant Movements of the Portfolio and Capital Employed

165
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Share Information
The following is an overview of the market conditions 
which prevailed during the year under review, both globally 
and locally. The section concludes with a discussion on JKH 
share-related information.
Global and Local Market Review
Despite the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, equity markets 
recorded an encouraging performance with most markets recording 
growth in CY2021. With major Central Banks across the world continuing 
to adopt somewhat expansionary monetary policies, equity remained 
one of the preferred asset classes for investors. Accordingly, the S&P 500, 
Nasdaq Composite and Dow Jones Industrial Average Index in the US 
noted significant gains of 26.9 per cent, 21.4 per cent and 18.7 per cent 
respectively, in CY2021. The MSCI World Index followed a similar trend, 
recording a gain of 21.8 per cent with the Japan's Nikkei gaining 4.9 per 
cent, its highest year-end finish since 1989, China's Shanghai Composite 
Index gaining 4.8 per cent, and Europe's STOXX 600 Index gaining 22.2 
per cent in CY2021. 
Regional Market Performance
Regional Market Performance
(%)
(%)
2020
Sri Lanka - ASI
Bangladesh - DSE
China - Shanghai Composite
Hong Kong - HSI
India - NSE
Japan - TOPIX
Malaysia - Bursa KLCI
Pakistan - Karachi ASI
Singapore - FTSE ASI
Thailand - SET
Vietnam - VN
(20)
0
20
40
60
80
100
2021
80.5
25.1
4.8
(14.1)
24.1
10.4
9.7
(3.7)
(0.2)
14.4
35.7
The All Share Price Index (ASPI) and the Standard and Poor's Sri Lanka 20 (S&P 
SL20) Index of the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) outperformed its global 
and regional peers. As at the end of 2021, the ASPI closed at its highest level 
at 12,226 points, whilst the S&P SL20 reached 4,223 points. This performance 
for the calendar year resulted in the ASPI and S&P SL20 recording gains of 
80.0 per cent and 60.0 per cent, respectively. A notable increase in domestic 
investor participation and the low interest rate environment which prevailed 
during most parts of the year, drove demand towards equities.
However, the macroeconomic volatility and uncertainties from the 
beginning of CY2022, including multiple rating downgrades, a rise in 
interest rates, steep depreciation in the currency, social unrest and political 
uncertainty resulted in the CSE recording steep declines – with increased 
selling pressure from local investors. This was further exacerbated by the 
suspension of Sri Lanka's external debt servicing in April 2022. Whilst 
there will be short-term challenges in the equity market given the current 
macroeconomic situation, the Group remains confident of Sri Lanka's 
growth prospects in the medium to long-term. 
 Refer Outlook section for a detailed discussion of the impacts of the  
ongoing macroeconomic crisis - page 136
During 2021/22, total net foreign outflows were recorded at Rs.36.65 
billion during the year compared to Rs.63.64 billion last year. Market PER 
decreased to 8.8 times in 2021/22 [2020/21: 15.0 times].
2,000
2,500
3,000
3,500
4,000
4,500
ASPI and S&P20SL Market Performance
ASPI and S&P20SL Market Performance
May-21
Mar-21
Jul-21
Sep-21
Nov-21
Jan-22
Mar-22
ASPI - LHS
S&P - RHS
5,000
7,000
9,000
11,000
13,000
15,000
(Index)
(Index)
(Index)
(Index)
Key Regulatory Highlights for the Year 
 y
The Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) revised the index calculation 
methodology of the ASPI to a free float adjusted market 
capitalisation weighted index effective 24 January 2022 onwards 
(previously the ASPI was a full market capitalisation weighted index).
 y
The CSE enabled local entities incorporated in Sri Lanka to issue 
and list foreign currency denominated shares on the CSE subject 
to predefined conditions, including requirements on foreign 
currency revenue generation. 
Total number of shares in issue as at 31/03/2022
1,384,916,632
Public shareholding as at 31/03/2022
98.74%
Stock symbol 
JKH.N0000
Newswire codes of the JKH Share 
Bloomberg
JKH.SL
Dow Jones
P.JKH
Reuters
JKELF.PK
Global Depositary Receipts (GDR) balance
1,320,942

166 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Indices
Value
31 March 
2022
31 March 
2021
%
MSCI
All Country World Index 
711.56
673.29
6
All Country World Index 
excluding USA
323.59
336.07 
 (4) 
World (23 Developed Markets)
3,053.07 
2,811.70
 9 
USA
4,338.85
 3,854.97 
 13 
Europe
1,927.37
 1,905.02
 1 
Europe, Australasia and Far East
2,181.63
2,208.32 
 (1) 
Emerging Markets 
1,141.79
 1,316.43 
 (13) 
Frontier Markets
608.04 
573.31
6 
Peer
SENSEX
58,568.51
49,509.15
 18 
JKSE
7,071.44
5,985.52
 18 
STI
3,408.52
 3,165.34
 8 
KLSE 
1,587.36
1,573.51
 1 
Local
ASPI
8,845.98
7,121.28
 24 
S&P SL20
3,031.16 
2,850.12
 6 
Key Market Indicators
31 March
 2022
31 March
 2021
%
Overall CSE market 
capitalisation (Rs.billion)
3,826.50
3,111.26
23 
Net foreign inflows/(outflows) 
(Rs.billion)
(36.65)
(63.64)
42
Average daily turnover  
(Rs.million)
4,754.93
2,934.14
62
JKH Share
The JKH share decreased by 2.4 per cent to Rs.145.00 as at 31 March 2022 
from Rs.148.50 as at 31 March 2021. 
0
20
40
60
80
100
JKH Share Performance vs ASPI (Indexed)
JKH Share Performance vs ASPI (Indexed)
Index
Index
No. of shares (mn)
No. of shares (mn)
JKH shares traded 
Jun-21
May-21
Apr-21
Jul-21
Aug-21
Sep-21
Oct-21
Nov-21
Jan-22
Dec-21
Feb-22
Mar-22
ASPI (indexed) 
JKH (indexed)
0
50
100
150
200
As illustrated in the graph above, 80,657,771 shares amounting to 5.8 per 
cent of the issued share capital of the Company was recorded as traded 
on 24 January 2022. It is noted that this was a result of a book transfer 
and does not represent a change in beneficial ownership.
JKH High/Low Share Prices per Month
JKH High/Low Share Prices per Month
(Rs.)
(Rs.)
Jul-21
Jun-21
May-21
Mar-21
Apr-21
Aug-21
Sep-21
Oct-21
Nov-21
Dec-21
Jan-22
Feb-22
Mar-22
80
100
120
140
160
180
High
Low
JKH 30-day moving average
The beta of the JKH share as of 31 March 2022 stood at 0.74. The beta 
is calculated on the daily JKH share movements against movements of 
the ASPI for the five-year period commencing 4 April 2017 to 31 March 
2022. The compounded annual growth rate (CAGR) of the JKH share over 
the 5-year period stood at 0.7 per cent, compared to that of the market 
which stood at 7.8 per cent for the same period.
Price Earnings Ratio
2021/22
2020/21
JKH
9.9
41.0
CSE
8.8
15.0
SENSEX
24.8
33.7
KLSE
16.2
20.5
JCI
16.7
26.0
STI
24.8
42.4
The graph below illustrates that the JKH share is currently at a 
decade-low, barring the period where the equity market was 
impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic in mid-CY2020. 
JKH Share Price
JKH Share Price
(Rs.)
(Rs.)
1-Apr-12
1-Apr-13
1-Apr-14
1-Apr-15
1-Apr-17
1-Apr-16
1-Apr-18
1-Apr-19
1-Apr-20
1-Apr-21
1-Apr-22
50
100
150
200
250
Share Information

167
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Issued Share Capital
The number of shares in issue by the Company increased to 
1,384,916,632 as at 31 March 2022 from 1,319,663,951 as at 31 March 
2021, primarily due to the private placement of ordinary shares to 
the Asian Development Bank (ADB), with the remainder stemming 
from the exercise of employee share options (ESOPs). Further details 
of the Company's ESOP plans are found in the ensuing section of this 
discussion. The Global Depository Receipts (GDRs) balance in ordinary 
share equivalent remained at 1,320,942. 
Private Placement of Ordinary Shares to the Asian 
Development Bank
In November 2021, the Company resolved to raise funds through a 
private placement of ordinary shares for a maximum cumulative amount 
of the LKR equivalent of USD 80 million to ADB in two phases. In January 
2022, the first phase of the above transaction was completed where 
JKH issued 65,042,006 ordinary shares at Rs.154.50 per share to ADB for a 
consideration of the LKR equivalent of USD 50 million, resulting in a post-
issue dilution of 4.70 per cent post the first phase. 
Additionally, in terms of the second phase, the Company also issued non-
tradable/non-transferable options, entitling ADB to subscribe for additional 
39,025,204 new ordinary shares of the Company, for an investment 
amount of up to a maximum of the LKR equivalent of USD 30 million. The 
options exercise price would be based on the volume weighted average 
price of the Company's ordinary shares as quoted on the CSE during the 
90 calendar days ending immediately prior to the option exercise date, 
subject to the floor price of Rs.165.00 and cap price of Rs.200.00 and is 
exercisable between 19 October 2022 and 18 January 2023.
Based on the above, the maximum number of ordinary shares that 
would potentially be issued under the entire transaction, assuming all 
options are subscribed for, will be 104,067,210, thereby capping the 
post-issue dilution on the conclusion of both phases to a maximum of 
7.31 per cent.
Market Information of the Ordinary Shares of the Company
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
2021/22
2020/21
Share Information
High (Rs.)
 151.50
153.00 
158.00
167.50
167.50
187.00 
Low (Rs.)
 133.00 
 129.00 
140.00
140.25
129.00
79.90 
Close (Rs.)
 132.25 
 149.75 
150.00
145.00
145.00
 148.50 
Dividends paid per share (Rs.)
  0.50 
-
0.50
0.50
1.50
  1.50 
Trading Statistics
Number of transactions
13,259
18,975
19,559
13,323
65,116
86,930
Number of shares traded ('000)
38,380
72,698
44,922
116,598
272,599
390,995
Value of all shares traded (Rs.million)
5,459
9,901
6,641
18,521
40,522
52,017
Average daily turnover (Rs.million)
96
157
107
319
 169 
238
Percentage of total market turnover (%)
4
3
2
6
4
8
Market capitalisation (Rs.million)
178,495
197,631
197,966
200,813
200,813
195,970
Percentage of total market capitalisation (%)
5.1
4.7
3.6
5.2
5.2
6.3
Dividend
During the year under review, the Company paid two interim dividends 
of Rs.0.50 per share, each, in November 2021 and February 2022.
Whilst the Group recorded a strong recovery momentum and 
growth in core operating profits, in addition to significant non-cash 
exchange gains for 2021/22, given the prevailing volatile and uncertain 
macroeconomic environment which could result in stress on operating 
performance, cashflows and the pipeline of strategic investments such 
as the WCT-1 project, the final dividend for 2021/22 was maintained at 
Rs.0.50 per share.
Accordingly, the dividend declared for 2021/22 is Rs.1.50 per share 
[2020/21: Rs.2.00 per share]. The final dividend for 2021/22 will paid on or 
before 22 June 2022. The Company payout ratio for 2021/22 is ~8 per cent 
with a total dividend outlay of ~Rs.2.01 billion [2020/21: Rs.1.98 billion]. 
The payout ratio is distorted due to the significant effect of the non-cash 
exchange gains. Excluding the impact of the exchange gains, the payout 
ratio would be 35 per cent. The Group payout ratio was at 10 per cent 
during the year [2020/21: 42 per cent].
The Group will follow its dividend policy which corresponds with growth 
in profits, whilst ensuring that the Company maintains adequate funds to 
ensure business continuity, particularly given the prevailing challenging 
circumstances, and fund its pipeline of strategic investments.
Distributions to Shareholders and Payout Ratio
Distributions to Shareholders and Payout Ratio
(Rs.Bn)
(Rs.Bn)
Payout (%)
Payout (%)
FY18
FY19
FY20
FY21
FY22
0
2
4
6
8
10
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
Dividend paid
Group dividend payout
8.3
40
8.2
54
4.6
49
2.0
41
2.0
10

168 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Share Information
Earnings Per Share
The fully diluted earnings per share (EPS) for the financial year increased 
by 318.0 per cent to Rs.15.12 per share [2020/21: Rs.3.62] due to an 
increase in total profit attributable to equity holders. On a recurring 
earnings basis, the diluted EPS increased to Rs.15.27 in the current 
financial year from Rs.3.59 recorded in the previous financial year, thus 
representing a 324.9 per cent increase.
However, it is noted that the benefit of higher earnings on the EPS were 
partially offset through an increase in the issued share capital of the 
Company in January 2022, in lieu of the private placement of ordinary 
shares to ADB, as discussed above. 
 The items affecting profitability are discussed, in depth, in the 
Management Discussion and Analysis section of this Report
Total Shareholder Return
The total shareholder return (TSR) of the JKH share stood at (1.3) per cent 
for the period under review, while the total return index of the S&P SL20 
recorded a return of 11.2 per cent. On a cumulative basis, over a five-year 
holding period, the share inclusive of dividends, posted an annualised 
total return of 4.5 per cent.
(30)
(20)
(10)
0
10
20
30
40
50
(%)
FY17
FY18
FY19
FY20
FY21
Total Shareholder Return 
6.5
19.7
27.5
(23.8)
30.0
(2.8)
(1.3)
24.6
26.3
Annual TSR
Cumulative TSR
Market Capitalisation and Enterprise Value
The market capitalisation of the Company increased by 2.5 per cent to 
Rs.200.81 billion as at 31 March 2022 [2020/21: Rs.195.97 billion]. As at 
the financial year end, JKH represented 5.2 per cent of the total market 
capitalisation of the CSE [2020/21: 6.3 per cent].
The enterprise value of the Group increased by 27.5 per cent to Rs.311.95 
billion as at 31 March 2022 [2020/21: Rs.244.68 billion].
As at 31 March 2022, JKH had a float adjusted market capitalisation of 
Rs.198.28 billion and 14,450 public shareholders. Thus, the Company is 
compliant under option 1 of the minimum threshold requirements for 
the Main Board of the CSE, as per the directive issued in terms of section 
13 (c) and 13 (cc) of the Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri 
Lanka Act No.36 of 1987, circulated on 16 November 2016.
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
Market capitalisation
Enterprise value
(Rs.bn)
FY18
FY19
FY20
FY21
FY22
Market Capitalisation and Enterprise Value
221
188
206
210
152
186
196
245
201
312
Summary Company Indicators
2021/22
2020/21
2019/20
Market capitalisation 
(Rs.billion)
200.8
196.0
152.2
Enterprise value 
(Rs.billion)
312.0
244.7
186.2
EV/EBITDA 
(times)
10.7
15.7
9.2
Diluted EPS 
(Rs.)
15.1
3.6
7.1
PER 
(diluted)
9.6
41.0
16.2
Price to book 
(times)
0.6
0.9
0.7
Price/cash earnings 
(times)
4.7
13.2
10.7
Dividend yield 
(%)
1.0
1.0
3.0
Group dividend 
payout ratio 
(%)
10.0
41.5
49.0
Net assets per share
(Rs.)
224.8
171.4
164.5
TSR 
(%)
 (1.3)
30.0
(23.8)

169
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Composition of Shareholders
31 March 2022
31 March 2021
Number of 
shareholders
Number of 
shares
%
Number of 
shareholders
Number of 
shares
%
Non-Resident
Institutions
75
492,439,810
36
89
485,528,066
36
Individuals
237
6,975,141
1
243
6,952,365
1
Total Non-Resident
312
499,414,951
36
332
492,480,431
37
Resident
Institutions
731
465,904,849
34
692
408,263,803
31
Individuals*
13,414
419,596,832
30
13,182
418,919,717
32
Total Resident
14,145
885,501,681
64
13,874
827,183,520
63
Total
14,457
1,384,916,632
100
14,206
1,319,663,951
100
*Includes directors, spouses and connected parties
Distribution of Shareholders
31 March 2022
31 March 2021
Number of 
shareholders
%
Number of 
shares held
%
Number of 
shareholders
%
Number of 
shares held
%
Less than or equal to 1,000
9,494
66
2,077,696
0
9,178
64
 2,086,693 
0
1,001 to 10,000
3,376
23
12,204,165
1
3,422
24
 12,270,037 
1
10,001 to 100,000
1,208
8
38,368,241
3
1,237
9
 38,224,468 
3
100,001 to 1,000,000
274
2
87,756,601
6
256
2
 80,702,749 
6
Over 1,000,001
105
1
1,244,509,929
90
113
1
 1,186,380,004 
90
Total
14,457
100
1,384,916,632
100
 14,206 
100
 1,319,663,951 
100
Options Available to Executive Directors under the Employee Share Option Scheme
Year of expiry
Krishan Balendra
Gihan Cooray
Granted 
shares
Immediately 
vested
To be vested
Granted 
shares
Immediately 
vested
To be vested
2022/23
 375,000 
 375,000 
 - 
 350,000 
 350,000 
 - 
2023/24
 450,000 
 337,500 
 112,500 
 430,000 
 322,500 
 107,500 
2024/25
 450,000 
 225,000 
 225,000 
 430,000 
 215,000 
 215,000 
2025/26
 450,000 
 112,500 
 337,500 
 430,000 
 107,500 
 322,500 
2026/27
 450,000 
 - 
 450,000 
 430,000 
 - 
 430,000 
Total
 2,175,000 
 1,050,000 
 1,125,000 
 2,070,000 
 995,000 
 1,075,000 

170 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Share Information
Director's Shareholding
31 March 2022
31 March 2021
K Balendra*
10,914,400
10,914,400
G Cooray
208,587
207,105
A Omar*
100,000
-
N Fonseka
-
-
A Cabraal
150,137
45,137
P Perera
-
-
H Wijayasuriya
-
-
*Includes shareholding of spouse.
Executive Director's Shareholding in Group Companies
Number of shares as at 
31 March 2022
K Balendra* 
G Cooray
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC
802,320
-
Asian Hotels and Properties PLC
-
10,600
Trans Asia Hotels PLC
-
1,200
*Includes shareholding of spouse.
Top Twenty Shareholders of the Company
31 March 2022
31 March 2021
Number of 
shares
%
Number of 
shares
%
Paints and General Industries Limited
140,437,428
10.14
114,977,303
8.71
Mr S E Captain
134,220,895
9.69
150,769,641
11.42
Melstacorp PLC
128,917,111
9.31
128,917,111
9.77
HWIC Asia Fund
119,200,760
8.61
39,250,982
2.97
Asian Development Bank
65,042,006
4.70
-
-
Citigroup Global Markets Limited Agency Trading Prop Securities A/C
61,904,939
4.47
141,854,717
10.75
Schroder International Selection Fund
41,974,590
3.03
42,475,806
3.22
Mr R S Captain
34,405,091
2.48
35,544,282
2.69
Norges Bank Account 2
31,901,605
2.30
31,706,807
2.40
Aberdeen Standard Asia Focus PLC
28,123,572
2.03
23,873,572
1.81
Mr Kandiah Balendra
19,511,476
1.41
19,511,476
1.48
Employees Trust Fund Board
18,499,897
1.34
18,709,833
1.42
Fidelity Fund - Pacific
17,880,904
1.29
17,880,904
1.35
Mrs C S De Fonseka
17,472,745
1.26
16,952,586
1.28
Mrs S A J De Fonseka
15,204,230
1.10
15,204,230
1.15
Edgbaston Asian Equity Trust
15,142,109
1.09
14,809,382
1.12
Chemanex PLC
12,605,234
0.91
11,417,835
0.87
Sri Lanka Insurance Corporation Limited - Life Fund
12,270,665
0.89
-
-
Mr K N J Balendra
10,907,628
0.79
10,907,628
0.83
Schroder Asian Growth Fund
10,328,047
0.75
10,328,047
0.78

171
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Employee Share Option Plan as at 31 March 2022
Date of 
grant
Employee 
category
Shares 
granted
Expiry 
date
Option 
grant 
price (Rs.)
Shares 
adjusted2
Exercised
Cancelled2
Outstanding
Due to 
resignations
Due to 
performance
Total
Vested
Unvested
End/
current 
price2 (Rs.)
PLAN 9
03.07.2017
10,402,204
02.07.2022
173.25
10,402,204
-
1,419,827
200,337
8,782,040
8,782,040
-
173.25
Award 23 
GEC1
2,865,000
3,215,000
-
-
3,215,000
3,215,000
-
Other 
Executives
7,537,204
7,187,204
1,419,827
200,337
5,567,040
5,567,040
-
PLAN 9
22.06.2018
10,381,395
21.06.2023
 154.10 
10,381,395
27,798
1,241,622
197,831
8,914,144
7,323,742
1,590,402
 154.10 
Award 34
GEC1
2,615,000
3,110,000
-
-
3,110,000
2,766,250
343,750
Other 
Executives
7,766,395
7,271,395
27,798
1,241,622
197,831
5,804,144
4,557,492
1,246,652
PLAN 10
01.07.2019
6,568,000
30.06.2024
 136.97 
6,568,000
77,000
268,000
122,250
6,100,750
3,551,250
2,549,500
 136.97 
Award 15
GEC1
2,460,000
2,590,000
-
-
2,590,000
1,645,000
945,000
Other 
Executives
4,108,000
3,978,000
77,000
268,000
122,250
3,510,750
1,906,250
1,604,500
PLAN 10
19.10.2020
6,557,100
30.06.2025
 132.86 
6,557,100
91,175
60,000
-
6,405,925
2,013,873
4,392,052
 132.86 
Award 26
GEC1
2,230,000
2,430,000
-
-
2,430,000
870,000
1,560,000
Other 
Executives
4,327,100
4,127,100
91,175
60,000
3,975,925
1,143,873
2,832,052
PLAN 10
16.08.2021
6,585,800
30.06.2026
 136.64 
6,585,800
-
-
-
6,585,800
258,400
6,327,400
 136.64 
Award 37
GEC1
2,205,000
2,205,000
-
-
2,205,000
2,205,000
Other 
Executives
4,380,800
4,380,800
4,380,800
258,400
4,122,400
Total
40,494,499
40,494,499
195,973
2,989,449
520,418
36,788,659
21,929,305
14,859,354
1  GEC comprises of the Executive Directors and Presidents.
2  Adjusted for Bonus Issues/Right Issues/Sub-divisions.
3  Plan 9 (Award 2) - 100% of the options had vested as at 31 March 2022.
4  Plan 9 (Award 3) - 75% of the options had vested as at 31 March 2022.
5  Plan 10 (Award 1) - 50% of the options had vested as at 31 March 2022.
6  Plan 10 (Award 2) - 25% of the options had vested as at 31 March 2022.
7  Plan 10 (Award 3) - None of the options had vested as at 31 March 2021 with the exception of retirees.

172 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Share Information
Share Capital
Year ended 31 March
Number of shares in 
issue (million)
2012
 844.12 
2013
 857.24 
2014
 990.29 
2015
 997.49 
2016
 1,189.40 
2017
 1,387.47 
2018
 1,387.53 
2019
 1,318.17 
2020
 1,318.55 
2021
 1,319.66 
2022
1,384.92
Dividends
Year ended 31 March
DPS* (Rs.)
Dividends 
(Rs.000)
2012
3.00
2,313,519
2013
3.50
2,982,421
2014
3.50
3,266,718
2015
3.50
3,475,947
2016
7.00
8,037,790
2017
5.50
7,280,497
2018
6.00
8,324,983
2019
5.00
8,186,450
2020
2.50
4,614,133
2021
2.00
1,978,317
2022
1.50
2,012,193
*Dividend declared per share.
2021/22 Financial Calendar
Date
Three months ended 30 June 2021
28 July 2021
Six months ended 30 September 2021
2 November 2021
Nine months ended 31 December 2021
26 January 2022
Annual Report 2021/22
23 May 2022
43rd Annual General Meeting
24 June 2022
First interim dividend paid on
3 December 2021
Second interim dividend paid on
28 February 2021
Final dividend proposed to be paid on
On or before 22 
June 2022 
2022/23 Financial Calendar
Date
Three months ended 30 June 2022
On or before 27 July 2022
Six months ended 30 September 2022
On or before 4 November 2022
Nine months ended 31 December 2022
On or before 25 January 2023
Annual Report 2022/23
On or before 24 May 2023
44th Annual General Meeting
On or before 30 June 2023
GDR History (in terms of ordinary shares, million)
Year ended  
31 March
Opening 
balance
Issued*
Converted/ 
repurchased
Closing 
balance
2012
0.95
0.32
0.08
1.19
2013
1.19
 - 
0.06
1.13
2014
1.13
 - 
0.01
1.12
2015
1.12
 - 
 - 
1.12
2016
1.12
 - 
 - 
1.28
2017
1.12
0.2
 - 
1.32
2018
1.32
 - 
 - 
1.32
2019
1.32
 - 
 - 
1.32
2020
1.32
 - 
 - 
1.32
2021
1.32
 - 
 - 
1.32
2022
1.32
-
-
1.32
1 GDR is equivalent to 2 ordinary shares.
*  First issued in 1994/95 and subsequently increased along with bonus issues and subdivision  
of shares.
History of Scrip Issues, Rights and Repurchases
Year 
ended
31 March
Issue
Basis
Number 
of shares 
(million)
Ex-date
Cash 
inflow/
(outflow) 
(Rs.billion)
2012
Subdivision
4:3
210
30-Jun-2011
N/A
2013
Rights @ Rs.175*
2:13
132
3-Oct-2013
23.1
2016
Subdivision
7:8
143
30-Jun-2015
N/A
2017
Subdivision
7:8
170
30-Jun-2016
N/A
2019
Repurchase @ 
Rs.160
1:20
69
11-Jan-2019
 (11.1)
2022
Private Placement
N/A
65
21-Jan-2022
10.0
* Unadjusted prices.

173
 Group Highlights       Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance   l    Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
ACCOUNTABILITY
Governance
175  Corporate Governance Commentary x 191  Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality 
194  Risks, Opportunities and Internal Controls

174 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
In furtherance of Group's sustainability and digitisation 
efforts, coupled with the need to strike a balance 
between the principles of conciseness and completeness 
in Integrated Reporting, the Group has used a variety 
of reporting formats to meet diverse stakeholder 
requirements. Whilst the section that ensues discusses the 
key highlights for the year under review and applicable 
disclosures, the Corporate Website entails a detailed and 
comprehensive discussion of the below sections.
Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality
Provides an overview of the Group's approach and framework towards sustainable 
development and long-term value creation.
Risks, Opportunities and Internal Controls
Includes a discussion of the key risks faced by the Group. The section also entails an overview 
of the Group's Enterprise Risk Management framework.
Corporate Governance Commentary
Entails a discussion of the Group's corporate governance framework, which endeavours 
to create an enabling environment for growth in a structured, predictable and sustainable 
manner.

175
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance       Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Corporate Governance Commentary
In furtherance of Group's sustainability and digitisation efforts, coupled 
with the need to strike a balance between the principles of conciseness 
and completeness in Integrated Reporting, the Group has used a variety 
of reporting formats to meet diverse stakeholder requirements. 
Whilst the section that ensues discusses the key 
highlights for the year under review and the 
mandatory disclosures required under various 
regulatory frameworks, the Corporate Website entails a 
detailed and comprehensive discussion of the Group's 
Corporate Governance Framework.
The Group's robust and comprehensive corporate 
governance framework endeavours to create an enabling 
environment for growth in a structured and sustainable 
manner to navigate through stable as well as volatile socio-
economic environments. The Group's corporate governance 
philosophy is institutionalised across all its business units, 
and it is this philosophy that has continuously created 
value for all its stakeholders, notwithstanding the external 
environment and macro conditions.
The Group's Governance framework has its own set 
of internal policies, processes and structures aimed at 
meeting and in many instances, exceeding accepted 
best practice, in addition to the 'triggers' which ensure 
compliance with mandatory regulatory requirements. 
This framework is regularly reviewed and updated to 
reflect evolving regulations, global best practice, evolving 
regulations, and dynamic stakeholder needs, whilst 
maintaining its foundational principles of accountability, 
participation, integrity and transparency. 
Key Governance Highlights
 y
During the year under review, JKH was ranked first 
in the Transparency in Corporate Reporting (TRAC) 
Assessment by Transparency International Sri Lanka 
(TISL) for the second consecutive year. JKH was 
the only entity to obtain a 100 per cent score for 
transparency in disclosure practices. This ranking 
is based on an assessment of corporate disclosure 
practices among the top 75 public limited companies 
listed on the CSE; under three different thematic areas 
crucial to fighting and preventing corruption:
 y
Reporting on anti-corruption programmes
 y
Transparency in company holdings 
 y
Disclosure of key financial information in domestic 
operations. 
 y
The Group launched the diversity, equity and inclusion 
(DE&I) policy, the overarching policy that underlies the 
Group's overall commitment to DE&I, in May 2021. 
Compliance Summary 
Regulatory Benchmarks 
Standard / Principle / Code
Adherence
The Companies Act No.7 of 2007 and regulations
Mandatory provisions - 
fully compliant
Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) 
Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka (SEC) 
Act No. 19 of 2021, including directives and circulars
Code of Best Practices on Related Party Transactions 
(2013) advocated by the Securities and Exchange 
Commission of Sri Lanka (SEC)
Code of Best Practice on Corporate Governance (2013) 
jointly advocated by the SEC and the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka)
Voluntary provisions - 
fully compliant
Code of Best Practice on Corporate Governance (2017) 
issued by CA Sri Lanka
Voluntary provisions - 
compliant with the 2017 
Code to the extent of 
business exigency and 
as required by the John 
Keells Group
Key Internal Policies
 y
Articles of Association of the 
Company 
 y
Recruitment and selection policies
 y
Learning and development policies
 y
Policies on equal opportunities, 
non-discrimination, career 
management and promotions
 y
Rewards and recognition policy
 y
Leave, flexi-hours, tele-working and 
agile working policies including 
health and safety enhancements 
and protocols
 y
Code of conduct which also 
includes policies on gifts, 
entertainment, facilitation 
payments, proprietary and 
confidential information
 y
Policies on diversity, equity and 
inclusion including gender
 y
Policy against sexual harassment
 y
Policies on forced, compulsory and 
child labour and child protection 
 y
Disciplinary procedure
 y
Policy on grievance handling
 y
Policies on anti-fraud,  
anti-corruption and anti-money 
laundering and countering the 
financing of terrorism 
 y
Policy on communications and 
ethical advertising 
 y
Ombudsperson policy
 y
Group accounting procedures and 
policies
 y
Policies on enterprise risk 
management
 y
Policies on fund management and 
FX risk mitigation
 y
IT policies and procedures, 
including data protection, 
classification and security
 y
Group environmental and 
economic policies
 y
Whistleblower policy
 y
Policies on energy, emissions, water 
and waste management
 y
Policies on products and service
 www.keells.com for detailed Corporate 
Governance Commentary

176 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Group's diversity, equity and inclusion (DE&I) policy 
The Group recognises that organisations that constitute diverse and inclusive workforces 
are best placed to innovate, retain talent and deliver better overall results, and firmly 
believes that it can achieve its highest potential through bringing together diverse 
perspectives and backgrounds. The Group is committed to advancing a culture of 
equitable inclusion amongst its workforce and value chain and ensuring that the dignity 
and diversity of all employees and value chain partners are recognised and respected. 
The DE&I policy is based on the key principles of: 
 y
Empowerment and inclusion 
 y
Zero tolerance for discrimination
 y
Equal opportunity
 y
Equal participation
 y
Diverse value chains
 y
The following key initiatives and targets were rolled-out, in furtherance of the Group's emphasis 
on creating an inclusive, diverse and equitable work environment; 
 y
Various initiatives such as introduction of subsidised crèche facilities, implementation of 
the first phase of the 'SanNap' programme whereby sanitary napkins were provided  
free-of-charge to all female employees of the Group. 
 y
As noted in the 2020/21 Annual Report, the Group has a goal of increasing women 
participation up to 40 per cent by the end of 2025/26. In this regard, women participation as 
at the end of the year increased to 33 per cent [2020/21: 30 per cent].
 y
As announced to the CSE in April 2021, Colombo West International Terminal (Private) Limited 
(CWIT) was incorporated to develop the West Container Terminal-1 (WCT-1) in the Port of 
Colombo, where JKH has an equity stake of 34 per cent. Further to this, CWIT executed a Build, 
Own and Transfer (BOT) Agreement with the Sri Lanka Ports Authority in September 2021, for 
a lease period of 35 years. WCT-1 fulfilled all conditions precedent in the BOT agreement, and 
the site was handed over in February 2022 for the commencement of construction.
 y
In November 2021, the Board of Directors of JKH resolved to raise funds through a private 
placement of ordinary shares for a maximum cumulative amount of the LKR equivalent of USD 
80 million to Asian Development Bank (ADB), in two phases. 
 y
In January 2022, Phase 1 of the above transaction was completed where JKH issued 
65,042,006 ordinary shares at Rs.154.50 per share to ADB for a consideration of the LKR 
equivalent of USD 50 million, resulting in a post-dilution of 4.70 per cent post the first phase. 
 y
Additionally, as part of Phase 2, the Company also issued 39,025,204 non-tradable/non-
transferable options, entitling ADB to subscribe for additional new ordinary shares of the 
Company, for an investment amount of up to a maximum of the LKR equivalent of USD 30 
million. Therefore, the maximum number of ordinary shares potentially to be issued under the 
entire transaction, assuming all options are subscribed for, will be 104,067,210, thereby capping 
the post-issue dilution on the conclusion of both phases to a maximum of 7.31 per cent.
 y
The proceeds from the transaction will be utilised by JKH for the purpose of balance sheet 
strength and agility to support its investments in an optimal manner
 y
The Group will engage with ADB to obtain technical expertise for its ESG strategy, capacity 
building for climate resilience and farmer assistance initiatives.
 y
In December 2021, JKH successfully refinanced the USD 395 million syndicated loan at 
'Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort', through a USD 225 million long-term loan facility and a 
six-month bridging facility of USD 100 million, which was structured in order to align with the 
maturity date of July 2022 of the original facility. 
 y
The USD 225 million facility was concluded at a rate similar to the previous facility taking into 
account step-down pricing mechanisms based on pre-agreed triggers. 
 y
The facility is a 5-year loan with a 2-year grace period and back-ended capital payments.
Corporate Governance Commentary
 y
The Group continued with its multi-pronged 
approach to internal audits and process reviews 
by augmenting its integrated fraud deterrent and 
investigation framework to foster synergy and 
collaboration efficiencies between components 
that deliver governance and assurance and 
related services, in facilitating business strategies. 
Central to this approach is the business strategy 
and how the current processes, systems, and 
people, are geared to efficiently and effectively 
handle the deliverables. This approach focuses 
on identifying opportunities for continuous 
improvement through a rigorous review, to 
determine the degree of alignment and interplay 
between processes, technologies, and people, 
in optimally facilitating each business strategy 
to handle consequent transactional events for 
better outcomes.
 y
The Group continued to strengthen its IT 
governance framework through the adoption 
of a Zero Trust Policy Framework effective 1 
April 2022, including shifting to a hybrid-cloud 
infrastructure as well as a Software Defined Wide 
Area Network (SD-WAN) to ensure real-time data 
accessibility, and implementation of a revamped 
Smart Office platform across the Group. 
 y
Given the significant macroeconomic challenges 
and developments prevalent in the country – 
the Board of Directors and the Group Executive 
Committee (GEC) frequently deliberated and 
evaluated the resilience of the Group under 
multiple stress-tested scenarios. 
 y
Cognisant of the economic hardships faced 
by the Group employees on account of rising 
prices and the scarcity of essential items, JKH 
provided a one-off, uniform financial care 
package in the form of an ex-gratia payment, 
to all eligible Group employees during the 
month of April 2022. 
 y
Further, a set of initiatives and programmes 
in the form of non-financial and indirect 
financial support are to be rolled-out. These 
include awareness sessions and webinars on 
managing personal finances in the current 
economic climate, emotional support 
with counsellors and employee supplier 
catalogues to name a few.
 y
The Board declared a final dividend of Rs.0.50 per 
share in May 2021 for the financial year 2020/21. 
For the year under review, the Board declared a 
first and second interim dividend of Rs.0.50 per 
share, each, in November 2021 and January 2022, 
respectively.
 Governance section of the Corporate Website

177
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance       Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
The Corporate Governance System
The diagram below illustrates the key components of the Corporate Governance System of the John Keells Group. It depicts the internal governance 
structure, from the Board of Directors cascading down to employee level, the integrated governance systems and procedures within the Group, the 
assurance mechanisms in place and the various regulatory frameworks the Group is compliant with from a Governance standpoint. 
Level
Integrated 
Governance
Integrated Governance 
Systems and Procedures
Internal Governance 
Structure
Board of Directors and  
Senior Management Committees
Assurance 
Mechanisms 
Regulatory 
Mechanisms
Group
The Code of Best Practice 
on Corporate Governance 
(2013) as published by SEC 
and the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants, Sri Lanka  
(CA Sri Lanka)
Voluntary compliance
Group + 
Industry / 
Function
Business / 
Function /  
BU /  
Department
Sector /  
Function /  
Sub-sector
Industry / 
Function
Chairman-CEO
Group Executive Committee (GEC)
Group Operating Committee (GOC)
Group Management Committee (GMC)
Sector Committee
Management Committee
Employee Empowerment
Strategy Formulation 
and Decision-Making 
Process
Human Resource 
Governance
Integrated Risk 
Management
IT Governance
Tax Governance
Stakeholder 
Management and 
Effective 
Communication
Sustainability 
Governance
External  
Assurance
Ombudsperson
Internal 
Control
Employee 
Participation
Board 
Committee
Senior 
 Independent 
 Director
JKH Code  of 
Conduct
Companies Act No. 7 of 2007
Mandatory compliance
Listing Rules of the Colombo 
Stock Exchange (CSE)
Mandatory compliance
Securities and Exchange 
Commission of Sri Lanka (SEC) 
Act No. 19 of 2021, including 
directives and circulars
Mandatory compliance
Code of Best Practice on 
Related Party Transactions 
(2013) advocated by SEC
Mandatory compliance
The Code of Best Practice on 
Corporate Governance (2017) 
issued by CA Sri Lanka
Voluntary compliance with almost 
the full 2017 Code, to the extent of 
business exigency and as required 
by the John Keells Group
Board of 
Directors
Human Resources 
and Compensation 
Committee
Related Party 
Transaction 
Review 
Committee
Audit 
Committee
Nominations 
Committee
Project Risk 
Assessment 
Committee
 y
All 5 Board Sub-Committees are chaired by Independent Directors appointed by the Board.
 y
The Chairman-CEO is present at all Human Resources and Compensation Committee meetings unless the Chairman-CEO's performance assessment or 
remuneration is under discussion. The Deputy Chairman/Group Finance Director is invited as necessary.
 y
Audit Committee meetings are attended by the Chairman-CEO and the Deputy Chairman/Group Finance Director. The Head of Group Business Process 
Review, External Auditors and the Group Financial Controller are regular attendees.
 y
The GOC acts as the binding agent to the various businesses within the Group towards identifying and extracting Group synergies.
 A detailed discussion of each of the components shown below is found on the 
corporate website

178 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Corporate Governance Commentary
Board of Directors
Board Composition 
As at 23 May 2022, the Board comprised of 7 Directors, with 5 of them being Non-Executive Independent Directors. 
Profiles of the Board of Directors 
Krishan Balendra
Nihal Fonseka
Gihan Cooray
Ashroff Omar
Amal Cabraal
Premila Perera
Chairman-CEO
Non-Executive Director
Deputy Chairman/ 
Group Finance Director
Non-Executive Director
Non-Executive Director
Non-Executive Director
N
A
P
R
P
H
H
R
ED
SID
ED
N
R
P
Krishan Balendra is the Chairman-CEO of John 
Keells Holdings PLC. He is the Deputy Vice 
Chairman of the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce 
and the Hon. Consul General of the Republic 
of Poland in Sri Lanka. He is a former Chairman 
of Nations Trust Bank and the Colombo Stock 
Exchange. Krishan started his career at UBS 
Warburg, Hong Kong, in investment banking, 
focusing primarily on equity capital markets. He 
joined JKH in 2002. Krishan holds a law degree 
(LLB) from the University of London and an MBA 
from INSEAD.
Nihal Fonseka is a career banker and served as 
the Chief Executive Officer of DFCC Bank from 
2000 until his retirement in 2013. He is currently 
the Chairman of Phoenix Industries Limited, 
Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the 
Investment Committee of Phoenix Ventures 
Limited and Non-Executive Director and Chairman 
of the Group Audit Committee of Brandix Lanka 
Limited. He was a member of the Monetary Board 
of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka from 2016 to 
2020 and the President of the Sri Lanka National 
Advisory Council of the Chartered Institute of 
Securities and Investments, UK from 2011 to 
2021. Prior to joining the DFCC Bank, he was the 
Deputy Chief Executive of HSBC Sri Lanka. He is a 
past Chairman of the Colombo Stock Exchange 
and the Association of Development Financing 
Institutions in Asia and the Pacific (ADFIAP). He has 
also served as a Director of the Employees' Trust 
Fund Board and as a member of the Presidential 
Commission on Taxation (2009), National 
Procurement Commission and Strategic Enterprise 
Management Agency (SEMA). He holds a B.Sc. 
from the University of Ceylon, Colombo, is a Fellow 
of the Institute of Financial Studies, (FIB) UK and is 
an Honorary Fellow of the Chartered Institute of 
Securities and Investments, FCSI(Hon), UK.
Gihan Cooray is the Deputy Chairman/Group 
Finance Director and has overall responsibility 
for the Group's Finance and Accounting, 
Taxation, Corporate Finance and Strategy, 
Treasury, Information Technology function and 
Corporate Communications. He is the Chairman 
of Nations Trust Bank PLC. Gihan holds an 
MBA from the Jesse H. Jones Graduate School 
of Management at Rice University, Houston, 
Texas. He is a Fellow member of the Chartered 
Institute of Management Accountants, UK, 
a certified management accountant of the 
Institute of Certified Management Accountants, 
Australia and has a Diploma in Marketing from 
the Chartered Institute of Marketing, UK. He 
serves as a committee member of The Ceylon 
Chamber of Commerce.
Group Chief Executive Officer of Brandix Apparel 
Limited, Ashroff Omar, has been instrumental in 
redefining the Sri Lankan Apparel industry for 
over four decades. He spearheads a company 
that develops, manufactures and markets end 
to end apparel solutions for world renowned 
brands. With a purpose to deliver Inspired 
Solutions through Inspired People, he is credited 
with pivoting Brandix into a globally recognised 
company with operational presence across 
nine countries including India, Bangladesh, Haiti 
and the United Kingdom. On a journey to be 
the most sustainable apparel manufacturer in 
the region, Ashroff ensures that real change is 
embedded across every point of the operation 
at Brandix, to truly care for the planet and the 
communities in which the company serves. 
This feat has been recognised in several ways, 
including the company's plant in Batticaloa 
being certified as the world's first Net Zero 
Carbon Apparel Manufacturing facility in 2019. 
In Sri Lanka, his direction has led Brandix to 
be adjudged 'Exporter of the Year' for the 7th 
consecutive time at the Presidential Export 
Awards 2020/21. He is also the Founder Chair of 
the Joint Apparel Association Forum (JAAF), the 
apex body of the Sri Lanka Apparel industry and 
sits on the Boards of some of Sri Lanka's most 
respected corporates. 
Amal Cabraal is presently the Chairman of 
Ceylon Beverage Holdings PLC, Lion Brewery 
(Ceylon) PLC, Sunshine Holdings PLC, Silvermill 
Investment Holdings and CIC Feeds Group of 
Companies. He is a former Chairman and Chief 
Executive Officer of Unilever Sri Lanka and 
has over 4 decades of wide ranging local and 
international business experience. He is also 
a Non-Executive Director of Hatton National 
Bank PLC and serves as a business advisor to a 
number of companies. He is a member of the 
Board of the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce and 
serves on the Management Committee of the 
Mercantile Services Provident Society. A Marketer 
by profession and a Fellow of the Chartered 
Institute of Marketing - UK, he holds an MBA 
from the University of Colombo and is an 
executive education alumnus of INSEAD - France.
Premila Perera was appointed to the Board 
of the Company with effect from 1 July 
2014 as an Independent Non-Executive 
Director. Premila Perera, formerly a Partner, 
KPMG in Sri Lanka, also served as the Global 
Firms Regional Tax Director for ASPAC in 
2000/01, as a member of the Global Task 
force commissioned in 1998, to advise 
the International Board of KPMG on future 
directions in determining long-term strategic 
plans, and faculty of the KPMG International 
Tax Business School. She also served a period 
of secondment with the US Firm's National 
Tax Office in Washington DC, and was a 
participant at the KPMG-INSEAD International 
Banking School programme. She is a Fellow of 
the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri 
Lanka. She served as an Independent Director 
and Chairperson of the Audit and Related 
Party Transaction Committees of Ceylon 
Tobacco Company PLC until October 2017 and 
as a Non-Executive Director of Holcim (Lanka) 
Limited until August 2016.
A
N
A

179
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance       Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Dr. Hans Wijayasuriya
Non-Executive Director
N
P
In his role as the Chief Executive Officer – 
Telecommunications Business, Dr. Hans 
Wijayasuriya heads the pan-region 
Telecommunications Operations of the 
Axiata Group Bhd., spanning the markets of 
Malaysia, Indonesia, Bangladesh, Nepal, Sri 
Lanka and Cambodia. Axiata is Asia's second 
largest Telecommunications Group. Up to 
the year 2016, Dr. Wijayasuriya functioned as 
the Group Chief Executive of Dialog Axiata 
PLC (Dialog), Sri Lanka's leading multi-play 
connectivity provider, and one of the highest 
valued companies on the Colombo Stock 
Exchange. In the year 2016, Dr. Wijayasuriya 
was honoured by the GSM Association 
as the first recipient of the 'Outstanding 
Contribution to the Asian Mobile Industry' 
Award. Dr. Wijayasuriya is a past Chairman of 
GSM Asia Pacific – the regional interest group 
of the GSM Association. He was also named 
'Sri Lankan of the Year' by Sri Lanka's premier 
business journal, LMD in 2008. Dr. Wijayasuriya 
is the immediate past Chairman of the Ceylon 
Chamber of Commerce, Sri Lanka's premier 
business chamber. During the period 2012-
14, Dr. Wijayasuriya also functioned as the 
founding CEO of Axiata Digital Services – the 
Group-wide Digital Services Business of the 
Axiata Group. Dr Wijayasuriya is an alumnus of 
the University of Cambridge UK, and obtained 
his PhD from the University of Bristol UK. A 
Chartered Engineer and Fellow of the Institute 
of Engineering Technology UK, Dr. Wijayasuriya 
also holds an MBA from the University of 
Warwick.
A  Audit Committee
H  Human Resources and Compensation 
Committee 
N  Nominations Committee
R  Related Party Transaction Review 
Committee
P  Project Risk Assessment Committee
ED  Refer Group Directory for directorships 
held by Executive Directors in other 
Group companies
SID Senior Independent Director
H
Managing Conflicts of Interests and Ensuring Independence
The Group takes necessary steps to ensure that Directors avoid situations in which they have, or 
could have, a direct or indirect interest which conflicts with, or might possibly conflict with, the 
interests of the Group.
In order to avoid such potential conflicts or biases, the Directors make a general disclosure of 
interests, as illustrated below, at appointment, at the beginning of every financial year and during 
the year as required. Such potential conflicts are reviewed by the Board from time to time to 
ensure the integrity of the Board's independence. Details of companies in which Board members 
hold Board or Board Committee membership are available with the Company Secretary for 
inspection by shareholders, on request.
Prior to Appointment 
 y
Nominees are requested to make known their various interests.
Once Appointed 
 y
Directors obtain Board clearance prior to:
 y
Accepting a new position.
 y
Engaging in any transaction that could create or potentially create a conflict of interest.
 y
All NEDs are required to notify the Chairman-CEO of any changes to their current Board 
representations or interests and a new declaration is made annually.
During Board Meetings
 y
Directors who have an interest in a matter under discussion: 
 y
Excuse themselves from deliberations on the subject matter. 
 y
Abstain from voting on the subject matter (abstention from decisions is duly minuted).
The independence of all its Non-Executive Directors was reviewed on the basis of criteria 
summarised below:
Criteria for defining independence
Status of conformity of NEDs
Shareholding carrying not less than 10 per cent of 
voting rights
None of the individual EDs' or NED/IDs' 
shareholdings exceed 1 per cent.
Director of another company*
None of the NED/IDs are Directors of 
another related party company, as defined.
Income/non-cash benefit equivalent to 20 per cent 
of the Director's annual income
NED/ID income/cash benefits are less 
than 20 per cent of an individual Director's 
annual income.
Employment at JKH and/or material business 
relationship with JKH, currently or in the two years 
immediately preceding appointment as Director
None of the NED/IDs are employed or 
have been employed at JKH.
Close family member is a Director, CEO or a Key 
Management Personnel 
No family member of the EDs or NED/
IDs is a Director or CEO of a related party 
company.
Has served on the Board continuously for a period 
exceeding nine years from the date of the first 
appointment
One NED has served on the Board for over 
nine years, and will be retiring from the 
Board in June 2022, post the JKH AGM. 
Is employed, has a material business relationship and/
or significant shareholding in other companies*. Entails 
other companies that have significant shareholding in 
JKH and/or JKH has a business connection with
None of the NED/IDs are employed, have 
a material business relationship or a 
significant shareholding of another related 
party company as defined.
* Other companies in which a majority of the other Directors of the listed company are employed, or are Directors or 
have a significant shareholding or have a material business relationship.
No Non-Executive Independent Director has a conflict of interest as per the criteria for 
independence outlined above. 

180 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Corporate Governance Commentary
Board Meetings
During the financial year under review, there were 6 Board meetings. All pre-scheduled Board meetings are generally preceded by a Pre-Board 
meeting, which is usually held on the day prior to the formal Board Meeting. In addition to these Pre-Board meetings, the Board of Directors 
communicate, as appropriate, when issues of strategic importance requiring extensive discussions arise. 
The attendance at the Board meetings held during the financial year 2021/22 is given below:
Name
09/Apr/21
24/May/21 28/July/21 02/Nov/21 22/Nov/21
26/Jan/22
Eligibility
Attended
K. Balendra
9
9
9
9
9
9
6
6
G. Cooray
9
9
9
9
9
9
6
6
N. Fonseka
9
9
9
9
9
9
6
6
A. Cabraal
9
9
9
9
9
9
6
6
P. Perera
9
9
9
9
9
9
6
6
H. Wijayasuriya
9
9
9
9
9
9
6
6
A. Omar
9
9
9
9
9
9
6
6
Board Sub-Committees
The Board has delegated some of its functions to Board Sub-Committees, whilst retaining final decision rights. Members of these Sub-Committees 
focus on their designated areas of responsibility and impart knowledge and oversight in areas where they have greater expertise.
The five Board Sub-Committees are as follows:
i. Audit Committee
ii. Human Resources and Compensation Committee
iii. Nominations Committee
iv. Related Party Transaction Review Committee
v. Project Risk Assessment Committee
The Board Sub-Committees comprise predominantly of Independent Non-Executive Directors. The membership of the five Board Sub-Committees is 
as follows;
Board Sub-Committee membership 
as at 31 March 2022
Audit 
Committee
Human 
Resources and 
Compensation 
Committee
Nominations 
Committee
Related Party 
Transaction 
Review 
Committee
Project Risk 
Assessment 
Committee
Executive
K Balendra – Chairman-CEO


G Cooray – Deputy Chairman/Group Finance Director

Senior Independent Non-Executive
N Fonseka


Independent Non-Executive
A Cabraal



A Omar


P Perera




H Wijayasuriya



Committee Member
Committee Chair

181
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance       Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Audit Committee
No of meetings - 05
Composition
 y
All members to be Non-Executive, Independent Directors, with at least one member 
having significant, recent and relevant financial management and accounting experience 
and a professional accounting qualification.
 y
The Chairman-CEO and the Group Finance Director are permanent invitees for all 
Committee meetings. The Group Financial Controller is also present at discussions relating 
to Group reporting.
 y
The Head of the Group Business Process Review division is the Secretary of the Committee.
Scope
 y
Overseeing the preparation and presentation and review of the quarterly and annual 
financial statements, including the quality, transparency, integrity, accuracy and 
compliance with accounting standards, laws and regulations.
 y
Assess the adequacy and effectiveness of the internal control environment in the Group 
and ensure appropriate action is taken on the recommendation of the internal auditors.
 y
Evaluate the competence and effectiveness of the risk management systems of the Group 
and ensure robustness and effectiveness in monitoring and controlling risks.
 y
Review the adequacy and effectiveness of internal audit arrangements.
 y
Recommend the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the External Auditors 
including their remuneration and terms of engagement by assessing qualifications, 
expertise, resources and independence.
Report of the Audit Committee
Role of the Committee 
The role of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities 
in relation to the integrity of the financial statements of the Company and the Group, the 
internal control and risk management systems of the Group, compliance with legal and 
regulatory requirements, the External Auditors' suitability, performance, and independence, 
and the adequacy and performance of the Internal Audit function undertaken by the Group 
Business Process Review division (Group BPR). The scope of functions and responsibilities are 
adequately set out in the terms of reference of the Committee which has been approved by 
the Board and is reviewed annually. 
The Committee's responsibilities pertain to the Group as a whole and in discharging its 
responsibilities, the Committee places reliance on the work of other Audit Committees in the 
Group without prejudicing the independence of those Committees. However, to the extent, 
and in a manner, it considers appropriate, the Committee provides feedback to those entities 
for their consideration and necessary action. 
The effectiveness of the Committee is evaluated annually by each member of the Committee 
and the results are communicated to the Board. 
Composition of the Committee and Meetings
The Audit Committee comprises the undersigned and the following Independent Non-
Executive Directors:
A Cabraal
P Perera
The Head of the Group BPR division 
served as the Secretary to the Audit 
Committee.
The Audit Committee met five times 
during the financial year. Information on 
the attendance at these meetings by the 
members of the Committee is given in 
the ensuing section. The Chairman/CEO, 
the Deputy Chairman/Group Finance 
Director, Group Financial Controller and 
the External Auditors attended most 
parts of these meetings by invitation. 
The Internal Auditors carrying out 
outsourced assignments and relevant 
executives of the Company and the 
Group also attended these meetings on 
a needs basis. The Committee engaged 
with management to review key risks 
faced by the Group as a whole and the 
main sectors with a view to obtaining 
assurances that appropriate and effective 
risk mitigation strategies were in place.
The activities and views of the Committee 
were communicated to the Board of 
Directors quarterly through verbal 
briefings, and by tabling the minutes of 
the Committee's meetings.
Financial Reporting
The Audit Committee has reviewed and 
discussed the Group's quarterly financial 
statements and the annual statements 
with the Management. The External 
Auditors were engaged to conduct a 
limited review of the Group's interim 
financial statements for the six months 
ended 30 September 2021. The results 
of this review were discussed with the 
External Auditors prior to publication 
of these statements. The scope of the 
review included ascertaining compliance 
of the statements and disclosures with 
the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards, 
the appropriateness and changes 
in accounting policies and material 
judgemental matters. Discussions were 
also held with the External Auditors and 
Management on matters communicated 
to the Committee by the External 
Auditors in their reports to the Committee 
on the audit for the year.
The Committee obtained independent 
input from the External Auditors on the 
effects of any new Sri Lanka Accounting 

182 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Standards that came into effect for the year under review and satisfied themselves that the 
necessary preparatory work was carried out, to enable the Company to comply with these new 
standards.
Internal Audit, Risks and Controls
The Committee reviewed the adequacy of the Internal Audit coverage for the Group and 
the Internal Audit Plans for the Group with the Head of the Group BPR division and the 
Management. The Internal Audit function of most Group companies is outsourced to leading 
professional firms under the direction and control of the Group BPR division.
The Group BPR division regularly reported to the Committee on the adequacy and effectiveness 
of internal controls in the Group and compliance with laws and regulations and established 
policies and procedures of the Group. Reports from outsourced Internal Auditors on the 
operations of the Company and some of the unquoted subsidiaries of the Company were 
also reviewed by the Committee. Follow-up action was taken on the recommendations of the 
outsourced Internal Auditors and any other significant follow-up matters were documented and 
presented to the Committee on a quarterly basis by the Head of Group BPR. The Committee 
reviewed the effectiveness of digital forensic tools used by Group BPR.
The Sustainability and Enterprise Risk Management division reported to the Committee on the 
process of identification, evaluation and management of all significant risks faced by the Group. 
The report covered the overall risk profile of the Group for the year under review in comparison 
with that of the previous year, and the most significant risks from a Group perspective together 
with mitigatory action. The Group functions in an environment where not all risks can be 
completely eliminated and in this context the Committee reviews remedial measures taken to 
manage risks that do materialise and the level of residual risk.
Formal confirmations and assurances were obtained from the senior management of Group 
companies on a quarterly basis regarding the efficacy and status of the internal control systems 
and risk management systems and compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
The Committee reviewed the whistleblowing arrangements for the Group and had direct access 
to the Ombudsperson for the Group. The effectiveness and resource requirements of the Group 
BPR division were reviewed and discussed with management and changes were affected where 
considered necessary.
External Audit
The External Auditors' Letter of Engagement, including the scope of the audit, was reviewed 
and discussed by the Committee with the External Auditors and management prior to the 
commencement of the audit.
The External Auditors kept the Committee advised on an on-going basis regarding matters of 
significance that were pending resolution. Before the conclusion of the Audit, the Committee met 
with the External Auditors and management to discuss all audit issues and to agree on actions. 
This included the discussion of formal reports from the External Auditors to the Committee. The 
Committee also met the External Auditors, without management being present, prior to the 
finalisation of the financial statements to obtain their input on specific issues and to ascertain 
whether they had any areas of concern relating to their work. No matters other than those already 
discussed with management were raised by the External Auditors. 
The External Auditors' final management reports on the audit of the Company and the 
Company and Group financial statements for the year 2021/22 were discussed with the 
Management and the Auditors.
The Committee is satisfied that the independence of the External Auditors has not been 
impaired by any event or service that gives rise to a conflict of interest. Due consideration 
has been given to the nature of the services provided by the Auditors and the level of audit 
and non-audit fees received by the Auditors from the John Keells Group. The Committee also 
reviewed the arrangements made by the 
Auditors to maintain their independence 
and confirmation has been received from 
the Auditors of their compliance with 
the independence guidance given in the 
Code of Ethics of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of Sri Lanka. 
The performance of the External Auditors 
has been evaluated with the aid of a formal 
assessment process with input provided by 
the senior management of the Company 
and the Committee has recommended 
to the Board that Ernst & Young be re-
appointed as the Lead/Consolidation 
Auditor of the Group for the financial year 
ending 31 March 2023, subject to approval 
by the Shareholders at the Annual General 
Meeting. 
N Fonseka
Chairman of the Audit Committee 
23 May 2022
Corporate Governance Commentary

183
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance       Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Human Resources and Compensation Committee 
No of meetings - 2
Composition
 y
Committee to comprise exclusively of Non-Executive Directors, a majority of whom shall 
be independent.
 y
The Chairman of the Committee must be Non-Executive Director.
 y
The Chairman-CEO and Group Finance Director are invited to all Committee meetings unless 
the Chairman-CEO or Executive Director remuneration is under discussion respectively.
 y
The Deputy Chairman/Group Finance Director is the Secretary of the Committee.
Scope
 y
Review and recommend overall remuneration philosophy, strategy, policies and practice 
and, performance-based pay plans for the Group.
 y
Determine and agree with the Board a framework for the remuneration of the 
Chairman and Executive Directors based on performance targets, benchmark principles, 
performance related pay schemes, industry trends and past remuneration.
 y
Succession planning of Key Management Personnel.
 y
Determining compensation of Non-Executive Directors is not under the scope of this Committee.
Report of the Human Resources and Compensation Committee 
The Human Resource and Compensation Committee forms a key part of the governance framework 
of the Group and carries the mandate to oversee the compensation and benefits policies adopted 
by the Group, and in doing so, review and recommend overall remuneration philosophy, strategy, 
policies and practice and performance-based pay plans. Furthermore, it reviews performance, 
compensation and benefits of the Chief Executive Officer (CEO), the other Executive Directors, and 
key executives who support and implement decisions at an apex level, the overall business strategy 
and make recommendation thereon to the Board of Directors. The Committee also reviews and 
monitors the performance of the Group's top talent for purposes of organisational growth and 
succession planning, with particular emphasis on succession at key executive level.
In performing this role, the Committee is conscious of the need to ensure that stakeholder interests 
are aligned, the Group is able to attract, motivate and retain talent and ensure their loyalty; the 
integrity of the Group's compensation and benefits programme is maintained and importantly, 
that the compensation policy and schemes are compliant with applicable laws and regulations.
In this context, the Committee determined the remuneration of the Executive Directors 
including the Chairman-CEO in terms of the methodology set out by the Board, upon an 
evaluation of their performance by the Non-Executive Directors. The evaluation of the 
members of the Group Executive Committee (GEC) were considered by the Committee 
and remuneration was determined based on performance, market comparators for similar 
positions and in accordance with the Company's Compensation and Benefits policy. 
As per the mandate outlined, the report from the Chairman of the Human Resources and 
Compensation Committee continues to be a standing agenda item at the quarterly Board meetings. 
The Chairman of the Committee reports on the developments which have taken place since the last 
Board meeting, if any, and updates the Board on various matters, as relevant and requested. 
The Committee wishes to report that the Company has complied with the Companies Act in relation 
to remuneration of Directors. The annual performance appraisal scheme, the calculation of short-
term incentives, and the award of ESOPs were executed in accordance with the approvals given by 
the Board, based on discussions conducted between the Committee and the Management. 
A Cabraal 
Chairman of the Human Resources and Compensation Committee
20 May 2022
Director Remuneration
Executive Director Remuneration
The Human Resources and Compensation 
Committee is responsible for determining the 
compensation of the Chairman-CEO and the 
Deputy Chairman/Group Finance Director, 
both Executive Directors of the Group. 
The Human Resources and Compensation 
Committee operates in conformity with 
applicable rules and regulations. 
The variable proportion of Executive Directors' 
remuneration is linked to the peer adjusted 
consolidated Group bottom line and expected 
returns on shareholder funds. Further, the 
Human Resources and Compensation 
Committee consults the Chairman-CEO 
about any proposals relating to the Executive 
Director remuneration, other than that of the 
Chairman-CEO.
During the year, ESOPs, valued using a 
binomial pricing model, were granted to 
the Executive Directors as well as to all other 
eligible employees. 
Excluding ESOPs granted, the total aggregate 
remuneration paid to Executive Directors 
for the year under review was Rs.106 million 
[2020/21: Rs.104 million] of which Rs.23 million 
[2020/21: Rs.45 million] was the variable 
portion linked to the performance benchmark 
as described above and Rs.83 million [2020/21: 
Rs.59 million] was the fixed remuneration. 
Non-Executive Director Remuneration
The compensation of Non-Executive Directors 
was determined in reference to fees paid to 
other Non-Executive Directors of comparable 
companies, and adjusted, where necessary, 
in keeping with the complexity of the Group. 
Non-Executive Directors were paid additional 
fees for either chairing or being a member 
of a Sub-Committee and did not receive 
any performance/incentive payments/share 
option plans. 
Total aggregate of Non-Executive Director 
remuneration for the year was Rs.16 million 
[2020/21: Rs.11 million].

184 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Nominations Committee 
No of meetings - 3
Related Party Transaction Review Committee 
No of meetings - 4
Composition
 y
Majority of the members of the Committee shall be Non-Executive Directors 
together with the Chairman-CEO.
 y
The Chairman of the Committee must be an Independent Non-Executive Director.
 y
The Secretary to the Board is the Secretary of the Committee.
Scope
 y
Assess the skills required on the Board given the needs of the businesses.
 y
From time to time assess the extent to which the required skills are represented at 
the Board.
 y
Prepare a clear description of the role and capabilities required for a particular 
appointment.
 y
Identify and recommend suitable candidates for appointments to the Board.
 y
Ensure, on appointment to Board, Non-Executive Directors receive a formal letter 
of appointment specifying clearly expectation in terms of time commitment, 
involvement outside of the formal Board meetings, and participation in Committees, 
amongst others.
 y
Ensure that every appointee undergoes an induction to the Group.
 y
The appointment of the Chairperson and Executive Directors is a collective decision of 
the Board.
Composition
 y
The Chairman shall be an Independent Non-Executive Director.
 y
Members of the committee should be a combination of Non-Executive Directors 
and Independent Non-Executive Directors.
 y
The composition may include Executive Directors at the option of the Listed Entity. 
Scope
 y
The Group has broadened the scope of the Committee to include senior decision 
makers in the list of key management personnel, whose transactions with Group 
companies also get reviewed by the Committee, in addition to the requisitions of 
the CSE.
 y
Develop, and recommend for adoption by the Board of Directors of JKH and its 
listed subsidiaries, a Related Party Transaction Policy which is consistent with the 
operating model and the delegated decision rights of the Group.
 y
Update the Board on related party transactions of each of the listed companies of 
the Group on a quarterly basis.
 y
Define and establish the threshold values for each of the subject listed companies 
in setting a benchmark for related party transactions, related party transactions 
which have to be pre-approved by the Board, related party transactions which 
require to be reviewed annually and similar issues relating to listed companies.
Corporate Governance Commentary
The Nominations Committee as at 31 March 
2022, consisted of the following members: 
A Omar (Chairman)
K Balendra
P Perera
H Wijayasuriya 
The self-review of the mandate of the Committee 
reaffirmed that it exists to:
 y
Recommend to the Board the process of 
selecting the Chairman and Deputy Chairman.
 y
Assess the skills required for each business, 
based on the strategic demands to be met by 
JKH and other Listed Companies of the Group.
 y
Identify suitable persons to be appointed as 
Non-Executive Directors to the Board of JKH 
and make recommendations to other Listed 
Companies in the Group. 
 y
Review the structure, size, composition and 
skills of each Board.
 y
Ensure that every appointee undergoes an 
induction.
 y
Make recommendations on matters referred 
to it by the Board. 
During the reporting period, the following 
appointments were made consequent to approval 
obtained from the Committee: 
Asian Hotels and Properties PLC: 
 y
A Nanayakkara (new appointment)
 y
J Durairatnam (renewal)
 y
A S de Zoysa (renewal)
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC: 
 y
M Hamza (renewal)
Tea Smallholder Factories PLC: 
 y
S K L Obeysekere (renewal)
 y
A S Jayatilleke (renewal)
Trans Asia Hotels PLC: 
 y
H A J de Silva Wijeratne (new appointment)
Union Assurance PLC: 
 y
D H Fernando (renewal)
 y
S A Appleyard (renewal) 
The Committee reports its activities at each Board 
Meeting.
The Committee continues to work with the 
Board on reviewing its skills mix, based on the 
immediate and emerging needs of JKH. Further, 
the Committee discusses with the Board the 
outputs of the Annual JKH Board Evaluation. 
A Omar 
Chairman of the Nominations Committee
20 May 2022
Report of the Nominations Committee

185
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance       Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
The following Directors served as 
members of the Committee during the 
financial year:
H Wijayasuriya
P Perera
K Balendra
G Cooray
The Project Risk Assessment Committee 
was established with the purpose of further 
augmenting the Group's Investment 
Evaluation Framework. The committee 
provides the Board with enhanced 
illumination of risk perspectives with 
respect to large-scale new investments, 
and also assists the Board in assessing the 
potential impact of risks associated with 
such investments. Investments which 
are referred to the committee are those 
which exceed a board-agreed threshold 
in terms of quantum of investment and/
or potential impact to the Group. The 
Report of the Project Risk Assessment 
Committee
Report of the Related Party Transaction Review Committee
The following Directors served as members of the Committee during the financial year: 
P Perera 
N Fonseka 
A Cabraal 
The Chairman-CEO, Deputy Chairman/Group Finance Director, and Group Financial Controller 
attended meetings by invitation. The Head of Group Business Process Review served as the 
Secretary to the Committee. 
The objective of the Committee is to exercise oversight on behalf of the Board of John Keells 
Holdings PLC and its listed Subsidiaries, to ensure compliance with the Code on Related Party 
Transactions, as issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka ('The Code') and 
with the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE). The Committee has also adopted 
best practices as recommended by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka.
The Committee in discharging its functions primarily relied on processes that were validated 
from time to time and periodic reporting by the relevant entities and Key Management 
Personnel (KMP) with a view to ensuring that: 
 y
there is compliance with 'the Code' and the Listing Rules of the CSE 
 y
shareholder interests are protected; and 
 y
fairness and transparency are maintained. 
The Committee reviewed and pre-approved all proposed non-recurrent Related Party 
Transactions (RPTs) of the parent, John Keells Holdings PLC, and all its listed subsidiaries, 
namely: John Keells PLC, Tea Smallholder Factories PLC, Asian Hotels and Properties PLC, Trans 
Asia Hotels PLC, John Keells Hotels PLC, Ceylon Cold Stores PLC, Keells Food Products PLC, and 
Union Assurance PLC. Recurrent RPTs as well as the disclosures and assurances provided by 
the senior management of the listed companies in the Group in relation to such transactions, 
in terms of formulated guidelines so as to validate compliance with sec 9.5(a) of the listing 
rules and thus exclusion from the mandate for review & pre approval by the Committee, were 
reviewed annually by the Committee. 
Other significant transactions of non-listed 
subsidiaries were presented to the Committee 
for information. 
In addition to the Directors, all Presidents, 
Executive Vice Presidents, Chief Executive 
Officers, Chief Financial Officers and Financial 
Controllers of respective companies/sectors have 
been designated as KMPs in order to increase 
transparency and enhance good governance. 
Annual disclosures from all KMPs setting out 
any RPTs they were associated with, if any, were 
obtained and reviewed by the Committee. 
The Committee held four meetings during the 
financial year. Information on the attendance 
at these meetings by the members of the 
Committee is given below. 
The activities and views of the Committee have 
been communicated to the Board of Directors, 
quarterly, through verbal briefings, and by tabling 
the minutes of the Committee's meetings. 
P Perera 
Chairperson of the Related Party Transaction 
Review Committee 
20 May 2022
Project Risk Assessment Committee
No of meetings - 1
Composition
 y
Should comprise of a minimum of four Directors.
 y
Must include the Chairman-CEO and Group Finance Director.
 y
Must include two Non-Executive Directors.
 y
The Chairman must be a Non-Executive Director.
Scope
 y
Review and assess risks associated with large-scale investments and the mitigatory plans 
thereto, if mitigation is possible, and identify risks that cannot be mitigated.
 y
Ensure stakeholder interests are aligned, as applicable, in making this investment decision.
 y
Where appropriate, obtain specialised expertise from external sources to evaluate risks, in 
consultation with the Group Finance Director.
 y
Recommend to the Board, necessary action required, to mitigate risks that are identified 
in the course of evaluating a project in order to ensure that those risks are captured by the 
Group Risk Matrix for monitoring and mitigation.
Note that the Committee shall convene only when there is a need to transact in business as per the terms of  
its mandate.

186 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Corporate Governance Commentary
committee accordingly provides early-
stage recommendations to the Board with 
respect to the extent of risk and adequacy 
of mitigation strategies. 
The sub-committee convened once during 
the year under review to discuss the Group's 
investment in Colombo West International 
Terminal (Private) Limited (CWIT), the 
project company incorporated to undertake 
the development of the West Container 
Terminal-1 (WCT-1) in the Port of Colombo. 
The discussion entailed an assessment 
of the financial, legal, environmental, 
social and governance considerations as 
well as a detailed risk analysis, which was 
subsequently tabled to the Board. 
Given the impact of the pandemic on 
Group businesses and the challenging 
macroeconomic uncertainties and 
volatilities during the latter part of 
the year, Board discussions took place 
at a higher frequency, affording the 
opportunity for matters pertaining to 
Group investments and risk assessments 
to be deliberated by the full Board. 
H Wijayasuriya
Chairman of the Project Risk Assessment 
Committee
20 May 2022
Outlook and Emerging Challenges
The need for maintaining a robust and 
well-grounded corporate governance 
framework has become vital when operating 
in a dynamic socio-economic environment, 
exacerbated by global volatility. A strong 
governance mechanism is pivotal in enhancing 
accountability to diverse stakeholders, ensuring 
corporate transparency, fair-mindedness 
and creating sustainable value. In this light, 
the Group will continue to stay abreast of 
governance best practice and assess its level of 
preparedness and its capability in meeting and 
managing evolving external challenges.
The pursuit of continuous improvement in 
governance, emphasis on environmental and 
social considerations and a call for increased 
accountability and transparency continue 
to influence and shape the role of board 
governance aspects. The primary areas of 
focus and challenges, amongst many others, 
being recurrently addressed by JKH are 
detailed in the ensuing section.
Board Diversity
JKH acknowledges the need for diversity in Boards and is conscious of the need to attract 
appropriately skilled Directors who reflect the values and requirements of its businesses and vision. 
Whilst the Group is of the view that diversity ranging across demographic attributes, backgrounds, 
experiences and social networks improve a Board's understanding of its vast pool of stakeholders, 
providing diverse connections with the external environment and aiding the Group in addressing 
stakeholders' claims in a more responsive manner, JKH is also conscious of the need to maintain a 
strong culture of meritocracy, ensuring that Board diversity does not come at the expense of Board 
effectiveness. In this regard, every effort will be made to attract suitably qualified personnel from 
diverse demographics and backgrounds. 
In furtherance of these initiatives, and to amplify the Group's emphasis on creating an inclusive, 
diverse and equitable work environment, headway was made on the gender diversity front, with 
03 women being appointed to the different Boards across Group companies during the year under 
review.
Board Independence
There is increased emphasis on board independence by stakeholders, stock exchanges and 
regulatory bodies worldwide. In order for a Board to be effective, JKH is of the view that companies 
must take steps, both in their structures and nominating procedures, to ensure fostering of 
independent decision-making and mitigating potential conflicts of interest which may arise.
The criteria for defining independence of boards vary significantly across countries. JKH is of the 
view that the intended vision of achieving improved governance and higher independence 
can be achieved through various checks and balances, whilst not compromising on the 
underlying operating model of a corporate. These checks and balances may entail, among others, 
establishment of various assurance mechanisms and the use of systematic and comprehensive 
board evaluation processes and independent director lead engagement. To this end, JKH will 
continue to place emphasis on further augmenting the Board's independence whilst striking a 
balance with the Group's operating model, which addresses the complexities and intricacies of a 
diversified conglomerate setting. 
Anti-Fraud, Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery
The Group places the highest value on ethical practices and has promulgated a zero-tolerance 
policy towards corruption and bribery in all its transactions and strives to maintain a culture of 
honesty as opposition to fraud and corruption. Based on this commitment, the Code of Conduct, 
anti-fraud, fraud prevention, anti-corruption, anti-bribery, validation, audit and transparency 
policies, amongst many others, outline the principles to which the Group is committed in 
relation to preventing, reporting and managing fraud and corruption. It covers inter alia, theft, 
embezzlement, overriding controls, giving or receiving kickbacks, bribery, allowing oneself to be 
placed in situations of conflict of interest and statements (financial or non-financial) dishonestly 
and recklessly made contrary to the factual position. 
The Group seeks to ensure that ethical business practices are the norm from the business unit 
level, down to the individual employee. Its transparent control and prevention mechanisms also 
extend to its value chain, to its customers, suppliers and business partners. 
The Group will continue its stance of zero-tolerance towards corruption and bribery in all its 
transactions and foster transparency and honesty in all business dealings, whilst continually 
developing its governance frameworks in line with international best practice. The Group's 
continuous effort to strengthen transparency in Corporate Reporting is evident by JKH being 
placed first for the second consecutive year in the Transparency in Corporate Reporting (TRAC) 
Assessment by Transparency International Sri Lanka (TISL) 2021, whilst being the only entity to 
obtain a full overall score for transparency in disclosure practices among the top 75 Public Limited 
Companies listed on the Colombo Stock Exchange.
 A detailed discussion on anti-corruption, anti-fraud and anti-bribery is available 
on the corporate website at https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-
Holdings-PLC-AR-2021_22-Corporate-Governance.pdf 
to be deliberated by the
H Wijayasuriya

187
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance       Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Increasing Emphasis on Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Aspects
ESG analysis and investing continue to gain traction amongst Governments, investment 
professionals and high net worth investors, given the aim of reducing negligent and irresponsible 
corporate behaviour that may have an adverse impact on the environment, harm human rights 
and foster corruption and bribery, among others, and disintegrate the corporate in the long-term. 
The unprecedented nature of the COVID-19 pandemic and its impacts globally have accelerated 
and intensified such discussions on the inter-linkages between sustainability considerations and 
financial performance.
JKH is of the view that emphasis on ESG fosters a 360-degree analysis of performance and enables 
a sustainable business model, which can derive value to all stakeholders. Various measures have 
been, and are, in place, to ensure a holistic view of performance including managing scarce 
natural resources, enhancing the well-being of all stakeholders and ensuring effective governance 
mechanisms. Such metrics are revisited regularly during decision-making. Initiatives such as 
the launch of Sustainability Goals 2025, roll-out of the DE&I Policy and strengthening of internal 
controls are implemented with a view of ensuring a strong ESG framework. The Group will stay 
abreast of developments in this regard and continue to integrate ESG elements with business 
strategy, operations and in reporting. 
Subsequent to the private placement of Company shares to ADB in January 2022, and ADB's 
investment mandate pursuant to which private sector projects must have clear development 
impacts and positive externalities, particularly in ESG aspects, JKH will leverage on ADB's technical 
expertise to further enhance the Group's existing ESG processes and frameworks to reach best in 
class benchmarks. Whilst the Group has undertaken many initiatives in this regard, the involvement 
of a strategic partner such as ADB will significantly augment the current initiatives across the 
Group and enable a rapid scale up given its strong expertise and experience in this area.
Continual Strengthening of Internal Controls 
Augmenting transactional and financial internal controls with operational aspects, in line 
with international best practice, remains a medium-term priority for the Group. Continuous 
strengthening of internal controls through a streamlined process that optimises and facilitates 
process audit information, life cycle management and related processes are expected to: 
 y
eliminate inefficiencies inherent in manual processes.
 y
provide a platform based on process enforcement.
 y
enable management follow-up based on centrally held data in a compliance repository.
 y
identify trends, action taken, effectiveness and opportunities for process improvement by 
analysing movement of the compliance posture.
Digital Oversight and Cyber Security
Whilst the rapidly advancing nature of technology and the continual integration of the Group's 
operations with technological progress has enhanced and streamlined processes and controls 
across the Group and opened up opportunities, it has resulted in increased vulnerability for the 
Group from a digital standpoint. As a result, the Board places significant emphasis on ensuring 
that the Group's soft and hard infrastructure is designed in a manner, and adequate, to deal with 
a potential breach. Data protection and cyber security are regularly addressed during the Risk 
Management and Audit Committee meetings and periodically discussed at a Board level.
Data Protection, Information Management and Adoption
The presence of continuously evolving IT infrastructure and platforms to meet requirements of 
day-to-day business, augured well for the Group, particularly given restrictions in movement 
during the year and social distancing measures in light of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Group 
witnessed an acceleration of digitisation and better user adoption. Despite this, adoption of such 
systems and features remain at a relatively early stage across the Group and is a key focus area for 
the Group.
Given the emergence of regulations such 
as European Union General Data Protection 
Regulation (GDPR) and the Sri Lankan Personal 
Data Protection Act No. 9 of 2022, data security, 
integrity and information management will be 
pivotal. In addition to this, the Group's initiatives 
on advanced data analytics also necessitate 
an established governance framework to 
manage the flow of data. To this end, the 
Group will continue to strengthen its data 
governance structure to ensure ownership 
and accountability of clearly articulated data 
governance policies and processes and  
Group-wide data quality standards. 
Greater Employee Involvement in 
Governance
Whilst all necessary compliance and 
assurance frameworks are believed to be in 
place, JKH recognises the pivotal role played 
by employees in reinforcing an effective 
governance system across the Group. JKH 
will continue to encourage greater employee 
participation through:
 y
a further strengthened continuous 
performance management process, 
which envisages continuous feedback 
and enhanced engagement via the newly 
implemented employee information systems.
 y
engagement and empowerment via 
greater delegation of authority.
 y
increased communication and 
collaboration.
 y
adoption of differentiated means of 
communication based on the age 
dynamics of employee segments.
The Group places the highest 
value on ethical practices and has 
promulgated a zero-tolerance policy 
towards corruption and bribery in 
all its transactions and strives to 
maintain a culture of honesty as 
opposition to fraud and corruption.
Efforts to strengthen transparency 
in Corporate Reporting is evident 
by JKH being placed first for 
the second consecutive year in 
the Transparency in Corporate 
Reporting (TRAC) Assessment by 
Transparency International  
Sri Lanka (TISL) 2021.

188 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Corporate Governance Commentary
Statement of Compliance under Section 7.6 of the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) on Annual Report 
Disclosure
MANDATORY PROVISIONS - FULLY COMPLIANT
Rule
Compliance 
Status
Reference (within the 
JKH Annual Report)
(i)
Names of persons who were Directors of the Company
Yes
Corporate Governance 
Commentary
(ii)
Principal activities of the entity and its subsidiaries during the year, and any changes therein
Yes
Management Discussion 
and Analysis
(iii)
The names and the number of shares held by the 20 largest holders of voting and non-voting 
shares and the percentage of such shares held
Yes
Share Information
(iv)
The float adjusted market capitalisation, public holding percentage (%), number of public 
shareholders and under which option the Listed Entity complies with the Minimum Public 
Holding requirement. 
Yes
The public holding percentage in respect of non-voting Shares (where applicable)
Not Applicable
(v)
A statement of each Director's holding and Chief Executive Officer's holding in shares of the 
Entity at the beginning and end of each financial year
Yes
(vi)
Information pertaining to material foreseeable risk factors of the Entity
Yes
Risk, Opportunities and 
Internal Controls
(vii) Details of material issues pertaining to employees and industrial relations of the Entity
Yes
Sustainability Integration, 
Stakeholder Engagement 
and Materiality
(viii) Extents, locations, valuations and the number of buildings of the Entity's land holdings and 
investment properties
Yes
Group Real Estate Portfolio
(ix)
Number of shares representing the Entity's stated capital
Yes
Share Information
(x)
A distribution schedule of the number of holders in each class of equity securities, and the 
percentage of their total holdings
Yes
(xi)
Financial ratios and market price information
Yes
(xii)
Significant changes in the Company's or its subsidiaries' fixed assets, and the market value of 
land, if the value differs substantially from the book value 
Yes
Notes to the Financial 
Statements
(xiii) Details of funds raised through a public issue, rights issue and a private placement during 
the year
Yes
Share Information
(xiv) Information in respect of Employee Share Ownership or Stock Option Schemes
Yes
(xv) Disclosures pertaining to Corporate Governance practices in terms of Rules 7.10.3, 7.10.5 c. and 
7.10.6 c. of Section 7 of the Listing Rules
Yes
Corporate Governance 
Commentary/Note 44 of 
the Notes to the Financial 
Statements
(xvi) Related Party transactions exceeding 10 per cent of the equity or 5 per cent of the total assets of 
the Entity as per audited financial statements, whichever is lower
Yes
Statement of Compliance under Section 7.10 of the Listing Rules of the CSE on Corporate Governance
MANDATORY PROVISIONS - FULLY COMPLIANT
CSE Rule
Compliance 
Status
Reference (within the JKH Annual Report)
7.10 Compliance
a./b./c.
Compliance with Corporate Governance
Yes
The Group is in compliance with the Corporate Governance 
Rules and any deviations are explained where applicable.
7.10.1 Non-Executive Directors (NED)
a./b./c.
At least 2 members or 1/3 of the Board, whichever is 
higher should be NEDs
Yes
5 out of 7 Board members are NEDs. The JKH Group is 
conscious of the need to maintain an appropriate mix of skills 
and experience on the Board and to refresh progressively its 
composition over time.

189
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance       Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
CSE Rule
Compliance 
Status
Reference (within the JKH Annual Report)
7.10.2 Independent Directors
a.
2 or 1/3 of NEDs, whichever is higher shall be 
'independent'
Yes
All NEDs are Independent.
b.
Each NED to submit a signed and dated declaration of 
his/her independence or non-independence
Yes
Independence of the Directors has been determined in 
accordance with CSE Listing Rules and the 5 Independent NEDs 
have submitted signed declarations confirming independence.
7.10.3 Disclosures relating to Directors
a./b.
Board shall annually determine the independence or 
otherwise of NEDs
Yes
All Independent NEDs have submitted declarations as to their 
independence.
c.
A brief resume of each Director should be included in 
the annual report including the Directors' experience
Yes
Corporate Governance Commentary 
d.
Provide a resume of new Directors appointed to the 
Board along with details to CSE for dissemination to 
the public 
Yes
Detailed resumes of the new Independent NEDs appointed 
are submitted to the CSE. It is noted that there were no new 
appointments to the Board, during the year under review.
7.10.4 Criteria for defining independence
a. to h.
Requirements for meeting the criteria to be an 
Independent Director
Yes
Corporate Governance Commentary.
7.10.5 Remuneration Committee
a.1
Remuneration Committee shall comprise of NEDs, a 
majority of whom will be independent
Yes
The Human Resources and Compensation Committee 
(equivalent of the Remuneration Committee with a wider scope) 
only comprises of Independent NEDs.
a.2
One NED shall be appointed as Chairman of the 
Committee by the Board of Directors
Yes
The Senior Independent NED is the Chairman of the Committee.
b.
Remuneration Committee shall recommend the 
remuneration of the CEO and the Executive Directors
Yes
The remuneration of the Chairman-CEO and the Executive 
Directors is determined as per the remuneration principles of 
the Group and recommended by the Human Resources and 
Compensation Committee.
c.1
Names of Remuneration Committee members
Yes
Refer Board Committees section of the Annual Report.
c.2
Statement of Remuneration policy
Yes
Refer Director Remuneration section. 
c.3
Aggregate remuneration paid to EDs and NEDs
Yes
Refer Director Remuneration section.
7.10.6 Audit Committee
a.1
Audit Committee (AC) shall comprise of NEDs, a 
majority of whom should be independent
Yes
The Audit Committee comprises only of Independent NEDs.
a.2
A NED shall be the Chairman of the committee
Yes
The Chairman of the Audit Committee is an Independent NED.
a.3
CEO and CFO should attend AC meetings, unless 
otherwise determined by AC
Yes
The Chairman-CEO, Group Finance Director, Group Financial 
Controller and the External Auditors attended most parts of the 
AC meetings by invitation.
a.4
The Chairman of the AC or one member should be 
a member of a recognised professional accounting 
body
Yes
The Chairman of the AC is a member of a recognised professional 
accounting body.
b.
Functions of the AC 
Yes
The AC carries out all the functions prescribed in this section.
b.1
Overseeing of the preparation, presentation and 
adequacy of disclosures in the financial statements in 
accordance with SLFRS/LKAS
Yes
The AC assists the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities 
for the integrity of the financial statements of the Company and 
the Group.
b.2
Overseeing the compliance with financial reporting 
requirements, information requirements as per laws 
and related regulations and requirements
Yes
The AC has the overall responsibility for overseeing the 
preparation of financial statements in accordance with the laws 
and regulations of the country and also recommending to the 
Board, on the adoption of best accounting policies.
b.3
Overseeing the process to ensure that the internal and 
risk management controls, are adequate, to meet the 
requirements of the SLFRS/LKAS
Yes
The AC assesses the role and the effectiveness of the Group 
Business Process Review division which is largely responsible for 
internal control and risk management.

190 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
CSE Rule
Compliance 
Status
Reference (within the JKH Annual Report)
b.4
Assessment of the independence and performance of 
the Entity's External Auditors
Yes
The AC assesses the external auditor's performance, 
qualifications and independence.
b.5
Make recommendations to the Board pertaining to 
External Auditors
Yes
The Committee is responsible for recommending the 
appointment, re-appointment or removal of External Auditors 
and also providing recommendations on remuneration and 
terms of Engagement.
c.1
Names of the Audit Committee members shall be 
disclosed
Yes
Refer Board Committees section.
c.2
Audit Committee shall make a determination of the 
independence of the external auditors
Yes
Refer Report of the Audit Committee.
c.3
Report on the manner in which Audit Committee 
carried out its functions and manner of compliance of 
Company in relation to the above.
Yes
Refer Report of the Audit Committee.
Statement of Compliance under Section 9.3.2 of the Listing Rules of the CSE on Corporate Governance
MANDATORY PROVISIONS - FULLY COMPLIANT
CSE Rule
Compliance 
Status
Reference (within the JKH Annual Report)
(a)
Details pertaining to Non-Recurrent Related Party Transactions
Yes
Notes to the Financial Statements
(b)
Details pertaining to Recurrent Related Party Transactions
Yes
Notes to the Financial Statements
(c)
Report of the Related Party Transaction Review Committee
Yes
Refer Report of the Related Party Transaction 
Review Committee
(d)
Declaration by the Board of Directors as an affirmative statement of 
compliance with the rules pertaining to Related Party Transactions, or a 
negative statement otherwise
Yes
Annual Report of the Board of Directors
Statement of Compliance pertaining to the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007
MANDATORY PROVISIONS - FULLY COMPLIANT
Section
Compliance 
Status
Reference (within the JKH Annual Report)
168 (1) (a)
The nature of the business of the Company or subsidiaries or classes 
of business in which it has an interest together with any change 
thereto 
Yes
Group Directory 
168 (1) (b) Signed financial statements of the Group and the Company 
Yes
Financial Statements 
168 (1) (c)
Auditors' Report on financial statements 
Yes
Independent Auditors' Report 
168 (1) (d) Accounting policies and any changes thereto
Yes
Notes to the Financial Statements
168 (1) (e)
Particulars of the entries made in the Interests Register 
Yes
Annual Report of the Board of Directors 
168 (1) (f)
Remuneration and other benefits paid to Directors of the Company 
Yes
Notes to the Financial Statements 
168 (1) (g) Corporate donations made by the Company 
Yes
Notes to the Financial Statements 
168 (1) (h) Information on the Directorate of the Company and its subsidiaries 
during and at the end of the accounting period
Yes
Group Directory 
168 (1) (i)
Amounts paid/payable to the External Auditor as audit fees and fees 
for other services rendered 
Yes
Notes to the Financial Statements
168 (1) (j)
Auditors' relationship or any interest with the Company and its 
Subsidiaries
Yes
Report of the Audit Committee / Financial 
Statements 
168 (1) (k)
Acknowledgement of the contents of this Report and signatures on 
behalf of the Board
Yes
Financial Statements / Annual Report of the 
Board of Directors 
168 (2)
Information specified in paragraphs (b) to (j) of subsection (1) in 
relation to Subsidiaries.
Yes 
Financial Statements / Annual Report of the 
Board of Directors
Corporate Governance Commentary

191
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance       Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Identification of Risks, 
Opportunities and 
Stakeholder Concerns
Sustainability Initiatives 
to manage areas of 
concern and External 
Reporting
IT Platform for 
providing Management 
Information and 
Variance Control
Sustainability Policy 
and Management 
Framework
Internal and External 
Sustainability 
Assurance
Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder 
Engagement and Materiality
The Group's approach and framework towards sustainable development 
and long-term value creation is outlined in the following section.
The Group in the need to achieve a balance between the Sustainability efforts, coupled with the need to strike a balance between the principles 
of conciseness and completeness in Integrated Reporting, has used a variety of reporting formats to meet diverse stakeholder requirements. 
Whilst the section which follows discusses the key highlights for the year under review, the Corporate Website entails a detailed discussion of 
Sustainability Integration and Stakeholder Engagement. 
Sustainability Integration 
Our Approach 
Over the years, the Group has made 
sustainable practices a strategic priority and 
ensured it is embedded into all operations, 
recognising that social responsibility and 
environmental stewardship are inseparable 
from its financial objectives. The Group 
remains steadfast in its commitment to being 
responsible and sustainable in operations that 
safeguard the well-being of both, people, and 
the planet. Sustainability is at the heart of the 
Group's operations and business-as-usual.
The Group's sustainability approach is based 
on four strategic pillars.
Framework
Policies
Processes
Technology
Economic
Ethical business, 
Economic Value 
Added and 
Employment 
creation
Environment
Environmental 
stewardship and 
responsibility
People
Caring for our 
employees and 
providing a safe 
and diverse 
workplace
Social
Creating mutually 
beneficial 
relationships and 
positive impacts
Group Sustainability Policy
The Group's Sustainability Policy describes its sustainability priorities, expectations and 
lays the foundation on which the Group's management framework is developed and 
implemented. This incorporates a holistic approach encompassing the environment, its 
workforce and community under a framework of operating in line with the highest standards 
of governance, compliance and corporate best practice. Coupled with transparent and open 
communications with stakeholders, the Group sustainability policy positions the Group to 
achieve long-term value creation. 
Sustainability 
Integration
Sustainability Integration
 The Group's Sustainability policy can be found on the Corporate Website
 Refer the Governance section on the Corporate Website for a detailed discussion on the Group's 
sustainability management framework, sustainability integration process and sustainability 
organisational structure

192 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder 
Engagement and Materiality
Sustainability Disclosures 
 y
A brief discussion of the standards, principles, information verification and assurance is included in the Introduction to the Report section of this 
report while a detailed discussion is found under the Governance section on the Corporate Website. 
 y
Details of measurement techniques, methodologies, assumptions and estimations are included in the relevant 'Management Approach Disclosures' 
section and can be found online at www.keells.com/sustainability-and-csr. 
 y
Reference to specific information and disclosures required by the GRI Standards can be found through the GRI content index. 
Engagement of Significant Stakeholders
The Group's sustainability ambitions are shared across sectors and stakeholder groups, which is why the Group values input from stakeholders and 
commits to proactive and constructive engagement. The Group's stakeholders have been identified as those who have significant influence over or 
who are significantly affected by the Group's operations. Numerous platforms have been established for the continuous dialogue with the Group's 
stakeholders and the following table summarises the frequencies of engagement with significant stakeholders:
Frequency
Stakeholder
Annually
Bi-annually
Quarterly
Ongoing
Monthly
One-off
Customers




Employees



Community



Institutional investors, fund managers, analysts,  
multilateral lenders



Government, Government institutions and departments


Legal and regulatory bodies


Business partners, principals, suppliers



Society, media, pressure groups, NGOs, environmental 
groups

Industry peers and competition

Key Sustainability Concerns
Following the most recent quantitative and qualitative stakeholder engagements, the Group 
constantly focused on engaging with stakeholders on their key concerns and ensuring its 
policies and processes prioritise issues material to these groups. The Group strives to ensure 
that it is a two-way process when engaging with stakeholders and welcomes inputs whilst 
proactively sharing progress updates.
During the reporting year, the Group faced challenges related to the ongoing COVID-19 
pandemic specifically related to health and safety, product quality, and responsiveness, areas 
that the Group has tackled through stringent health and safety, and sanitisation practices 
for its employees, supply chain, customers, as well as through responsiveness to customer 
demands alongside new and rapidly changing requirements of stakeholders. In addition, 
the Group has strived to ensure that its focus on its supply chain and community-based 
engagements continued despite difficulties due to the pandemic.
Further, the Group was also challenged by the economic situation of the country, which 
resulted in record inflation, scarcity of commodities and shortages of fuel. The Group's 
management continuously engaged with relevant policymakers and other stakeholders to 
navigate this challenging phase. 
Scope & Boundary
89 legal entities of the John Keells Group 
create the financial reporting boundary of 
the Annual Report 2021/22 of which 50 
companies have been listed in the Group 
Directory of the Annual Report as part of the 
sustainability reporting boundary. Within 
these, any other exclusions made have 
been clearly explained under the relevant 
sustainability topics. This year, 5 new 'Keells' 
outlets were included in the reporting scope 
during the year under review.
 Refer the Governance section of the 
Corporate Website for further details on 
the report content, and any exclusions 
and changes to the reporting scope and 
boundary during the year
The Group is steadfast in 
its commitment to being 
responsible and sustainable in 
its operations that safeguard 
the well-being of both, people, 
and the planet.
 For details on expectations of significant stakeholders and methods of engagement used by the 
Group, please refer the Governance section on the Corporate Website
 Refer the Governance section on the Corporate Website for a detailed discussion on key 
sustainability concerns

193
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis       Governance       Financial Statements   l    Supplementary Information
Identification of Material Topics 
In line with the increased scope of reporting, the Group carried out a comprehensive materiality assessment to cover its key business segments. This 
exercise aimed to identify the ESG topics that matter most to stakeholders and are most important for the long-term success of the Group. This year 
did not see significant changes in the list of material topics and topic boundaries compared to previous reporting periods. 
 The Governance section of the Corporate Website details the material sustainability concerns of the 
Group's significant internal and external stakeholders
In defining report content, the Group prioritises material impacts based on their relative importance to internal and external stakeholders which is 
summarised below.
Material Topics
Low
High
Impact to External Stakeholders
Impact to Internal Stakeholders
High
Market Presence
Indirect Economic Impact
Taxation
Economic Performance
Local Purchasing
Employment
Equal Pay
Labour Relations
Labour Grievances
Training
Occupational Health & Safety
Supplier Assessment Labour 
Energy
Water
Waste
Effluents
Emissions
Env Compliance
Biodiversity
Materials
Transportation Impacts
Env Conservation
Products & Services Impacts
Env Grievances
Supplier Assessment - Environment
Responsible Advertising
Labelling
Product Compliance
Customer Health & Safety
Customer Privacy
Overall Compliance
Local Community
Anti Corruption
Public Policy
Anti Competitive Behaviour
Supplier Assessment - Social 
Forced Labour
Child Labour
Non - Discrimination
Freedom of Association
Supplier Assessments - Human Rights 
Security Practices
Indigenous Rights
Human Rights Assessment
Human Rights Grievances
Investments
Diversity & Equal Opportunity
 A detailed description of the strategies and approach adopted by the Group in managing its material 
topics are contained in the management approach disclosures section hosted on the Group website  
https://www.keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_Disclosures_2021_22.pdf

194 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Risks, Opportunities and Internal Controls
The Group takes a comprehensive and integrated approach 
towards Risk Management, with processes incorporating 
good governance and sustainable development alongside 
effective risk management practices.
With the need to strike a balance between the principles of conciseness and completeness 
in Integrated Reporting, the Group has used a variety of reporting formats to meet diverse 
stakeholder requirements in alignment with the Group's sustainability and digitisation efforts. 
Whilst the section that ensues discusses the key highlights for the year under review, the Corporate 
Website entails a detailed discussion of the risk management processes and related initiatives.
Enterprise Risk Management Framework 
The Group recognises that proactive management of risk is essential for achieving the company's 
strategic objectives. The enterprise-wide risk management (ERM) framework ensures a structured 
process for risk identification and mitigation. Risk management is embedded across the Group and 
aligned to the Group's corporate governance and sustainability frameworks.
Overview of the Framework 
 y
Risk identified at a Group level using a bottom-up approach. 
 y
Business unit, management committee and Board level review and analysis of identified risks. 
 y
Financial, strategic, operational, information technology, governance and sustainability-related 
risks are considered and categorised within a common Risk Universe across Group businesses.
 y
All risks are rated and assigned to Risk Owners to ensure accountability and focus on mitigation 
activities. 
 Refer the Governance section on the Corporate Website for a discussion on the Risk Management Framework
Key Risks
Rating
Macroeconomic and political environment

Regulatory environment 

Financial exposure

Information technology

Global competition

Human resources and talent management

Environment and health & safety

Reputation and brand image

Supply chain risk

  Ultra-High 
  High 
  Medium 
  Low
 The Governance section on the Corporate Website details, in depth, the justification for the above risk 
ratings along with the mitigation strategies being followed across the Group
Key Highlights During the Year: 
 y
The COVID-19 pandemic related operational risks were reviewed on an ongoing basis at all 
business units.
 y
Business continuity and response plans at business unit level were further augmented and 
continuously monitored. 
 y
Due to pandemic related limitations and travel restrictions, all central risk reviews were 
conducted remotely, ensuring the uninterrupted continuity of such processes.
 y
Whilst the risk rating in lieu of exchange rate exposure was upgraded to 'High', given the 
significant volatility of the Rupee and the associated challenges in liquidity, the Group 
adopted prudent measures, as and when required, to manage the financial impacts from 
liquidity constraints and currency fluctuations through strategies such as liability matching 
and mitigation of exposure through derivatives, where appropriate, proactively.
The first half of the year under review also 
entailed the impacts of pandemic related 
impacts, with intermittent lockdowns to control 
the spread of the virus. However, the easing of 
restrictions in tandem with the encouraging 
vaccination drive, contributed a strong recovery 
in business and consumer sentiment. 
Given the unprecedented nature of pandemic, 
despite the learnings from the previous year, all 
businesses continued to proactively monitor and 
revisit the 'pandemic' risk item on their respective 
risk registers to ensure that risk responses and 
mitigation actions were systematically assessed 
and updated to tackle volatile on-ground 
situations. The Group further facilitated the 
Government's initiative of vaccination by 
encouraging staff, families and community. 
Given the continued impacts of the pandemic 
and the challenges on the macroeconomic 
front, particularly towards the latter end of the 
year under review, the Group continued with 
the various measures rolled-out last year to 
ensure a sustainable and agile operating model, 
with a focused view on cash management 
and liquidity, in particular. While the Group 
had a strong cash position and availability of 
banking facilities, continued focus was placed on 
ensuring balance sheet strength to support the 
investment pipeline of the Group. To this end, as 
morefully disclosed in Share Information section 
of the report, the Company raised USD 50 million 
through the first phase of a private placement of 
ordinary shares to the Asian Development Bank.
The challenges on the economic, social and 
political fronts in the country, particularly towards 
the latter end of the year under review also 
created a challenging landscape for the Group 
to operate in. Hence, the year under review was 
also characterised by significant challenges on 
the foreign exchange front, where in addition 
to the depreciation of the currency towards the 
latter end of the year under review, there were 
significant challenges in the foreign currency 
market on the back of a marked reduction in 
liquidity amidst declining confidence and a 
depletion of foreign currency reserves in the 
country. The Group adopted prudent measures, 
as and when required, to manage the financial 
impacts arising from the liquidity constraints and 
currency fluctuations through strategies such as 
matching liabilities with corresponding inflows.
With the Group facilitating remote working and 
increased digitisation of processes, measures 
were taken to further strengthen the information 
technology governance and cyber security 
framework.
 Refer the Group Consolidated Review and 
Industry Group Review sections of the Report 
for a detailed discussion on COVID-19, its 
impact on the Group and its businesses. The 
sections also detail the strategies rolled-out 
to minimise the impact on Group operations, 
its continuity and sustainability

195
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance       Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
197 Annual Report of the Board of Directors x 202 The Statement of Directors’ Responsibility 
203 Independent Auditors’ Report x 206 Income Statement x 207 Statement of Comprehensive Income 
208 Statement of Financial Position x 209 Statement of Cash Flows x 211 Statement of Changes in Equity 
212 Notes to the Financial Statements
TRANSPARENCY
Financial Information

196 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Index to the Financial Statements
Corporate and Group information 
1  Corporate information  
212
2  Group information  
212
Basis of Preparation and Other Significant Accounting Policies
3 
Basis of preparation  
212
4  Summary of significant accounting policies 
213
5  Significant accounting judgements, estimates and  
assumptions 
214
6  Changes in accounting standards  
214
7  Standards issued but not yet effective 
214 
Group Business, Operations and Management
8  Operating segment information  
215
9  Basis of consolidation and material partly owned  
subsidiaries 
221
10  Business combinations and acquisitions of  
non-controlling interests 
223
11  Financial risk management objectives and policies 
225
12  Fair value measurement and related fair  
value disclosures 
234
13  Financial instruments and related policies 
236
Notes to the Income Statement, Statement of Comprehensive 
Income and Statement of Financial Position
14  Revenue  
241
15  Dividend income  
243
16  Other operating income and other operating  
expenses 
243
17  Net finance income  
244
18  Profit before tax  
245
19  Earnings per share  
245
20  Dividend per share  
246
21  Taxes  
246
22  Property, plant and equipment  
252
23  Right of use assets and lease liabilities  
257
24 Investment property  
259
25  Intangible assets  
261
26  Investment in subsidiaries  
264
27  Investment in equity accounted investees 
266
28  Non current financial assets  
270
29  Other non current assets  
271
30  Inventories  
271 
31  Trade and other receivables  
272
32  Other current assets  
272
33  Short term investments  
272
34  Stated capital and other components of equity 
273
35  Share-based payment plans  
275
36  Insurance contract liabilities  
276
37  Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 
279
38 Employee benefit liabilities  
283
39  Non current financial liabilities 
285
40 Other non current liabilities 
285
41  Trade and other payables  
285
42  Short term borrowings  
286
43  Other current liabilities  
286
44  Related party transactions  
286
Other Disclosures 
45  Contingent liabilities  
291
46  Capital and other commitments  
292
47  Assets pledged  
292
48 Events after the reporting period  
292
Annual Report of the Board of Directors 
197
The Statement of Directors’ Responsibility 
202
Independent Auditors’ Report  
203
Income Statement 
206
Statement of Comprehensive Income 
207
Statement of Financial Position  
208
Statement of Cash Flows  
209
Statement of Changes in Equity  
211
Notes to the Financial Statements 
212

197
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance       Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
Annual Report of the Board of Directors
The Directors have pleasure in presenting the 
43rd Annual Report of your Company which 
covers the Audited Financial Statements, 
Chairman’s Message, Corporate Governance 
Commentary, Management Discussion and 
Analysis including Industry Group Review 
and all the other relevant information for the 
year ended 31 March 2022. Disclosures which 
appear in the Share Information section form 
a part of the Annual Report of the Board 
of Directors as it is a requirement of the 
Companies Act No. 07 of 2007.
The Group’s businesses recorded strong 
improvement in profitability compared 
to the previous year on the back of a fast 
recovery momentum with most of the 
businesses reaching pre COVID-19 levels of 
operations post the easing of restrictions. 
The management has formed judgment 
that the Company, its subsidiaries, associates 
and joint ventures have adequate resources 
to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future driven by the continuous 
operationalisation of risk mitigation initiatives 
and monitoring of business continuity and 
response plans at each business unit level 
along with the financial strength of the Group. 
The Group’s Outlook has been presented in 
page 137 in the Annual Report.
Financial Statements
Financial Statements of the Company and 
Group for the year ended 31 March 2022, 
which have been prepared in accordance with 
Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRS/LKAS) 
with the inclusion of the signatures of the 
Chairman, Deputy Chairman/Group Finance 
Director and Group Financial Controller, are 
given as a part of the Integrated Annual 
Report.
John Keells Holdings PLC
For the year ended 31 March 
2022
2021
In Rs.‘000s
Profit after tax
24,381,407
10,565,887
Other adjustments
(3,810)
(2,135)
Balance brought forward from the previous year
67,557,002
59,631,436
Amount available for appropriation
91,934,599
70,195,188
Interim dividends of Rs.1.00 per share (2021-Rs.1.50) paid out of 
dividend received
(1,352,323) 
(1,978,317)
Final dividend declared Rs.0.50 (2021-Rs.0.50)
(692,458)
(659,869)
Balance to be carried forward to the next year
89,889,818
67,557,002
10 to the Financial Statements. These reports, 
together with the audited financial statements, 
reflect the state of affairs of the Company and 
the Group. The segment-wise contribution to 
Group revenue, results, assets and liabilities are 
provided in Note 8 to the Financial Statements.
Financial Results and Appropriations
Accounting Policies
All the significant accounting policies adopted 
by the Company and Group are mentioned in 
the Notes to the Financial Statements. There 
have been no changes in the accounting 
policies adopted by the Group during the 
year under review. For all periods up to and 
including the year ended 31 March 2022, 
the Group prepared its financial statements 
in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting 
Standards (SLFRS/LKAS) which have materially 
converged with the International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRS) as issued by the 
International Accounting Standards Board 
(IASB).
Revenue
Revenue generated by the Company 
amounted to Rs.1,876 Mn (2021– Rs.1,637 Mn), 
whilst Group revenue amounted to Rs.218,075 
Mn (2021 – Rs.127,676 Mn). Contribution to 
Group revenue, from the different business 
segments, is provided in Note 8 to the Financial 
Statements.
Profit and Appropriations
The profit after tax of the Company was 
Rs.24,381 Mn (2021 – Rs.10,566 Mn) whilst the 
Group profit attributable to equity holders of 
the parent for the year was Rs.20,213 Mn (2021 
- Rs.4,772 Mn).
The Company’s total comprehensive income 
net of tax was Rs.26,570 Mn (2021 - Rs.11,296 
Mn), and the Group total comprehensive 
income attributable to parent was Rs.76,733 
Mn (2021 - Rs.10,761 Mn).
Dividend and Reserves
As required by Section 56(2) of the Companies 
Act No 7 of 2007, the Board of Directors have 
confirmed that the Company satisfies the 
solvency test in accordance with Section 57 
of the Companies Act No 7 of 2007, and has 
obtained certificates from the auditors, prior to 
declaring all dividends. 
A final dividend will be paid on or before 
22 June 2022 to those shareholders on the 
register as of 31 May 2022.
Principal Activities
John Keells Holdings PLC (the Company), 
the Group’s holding Company, manages a 
portfolio of holdings consisting of a range of 
diverse business operations, which, together, 
constitute the John Keells Group (the Group), 
and provides function-based services to its 
subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates.
The companies within the Group and its 
business activities are described in the 
Group Directory under the Supplementary 
Information section of the Annual Report. 
There were no significant changes to the 
principal activities of the Company or its 
subsidiaries during the year.
Corporate Vision and Values
A culture of innovation, integrity, excellence, 
caring and trust has been developed within 
the Group. By being aligned with these values 
the Directors and employees conduct their 
activities to achieve the vision, “Building 
businesses that are leaders in the region”.
Review of Business Segments
A review of the financial and operational 
performance and future business 
developments of the Group, sectors, and 
its business units are described in the 
Management Discussion and Analysis section 
of the Annual Report. Significant changes 
to business combinations and acquisition of 
non-controlling interests are provided in Note 

198 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Annual Report of the Board of Directors
Capital Expenditure
The Company’s and Group’s capital 
expenditure on property, plant and equipment 
amounted to Rs.14 Mn (2021 - Rs.9 Mn) and 
Rs.6,627 Mn (2021 - Rs.5,367 Mn), respectively, 
and all other related information and 
movements have been disclosed in Note 22 to 
the Financial Statements.
Additions of intangible assets of the Company 
and Group during the year amounted to Rs.30 
Mn (2021 - Rs.26 Mn) and Rs.1,360 Mn (2021 - 
Rs.2,187 Mn), respectively, and all other related 
movements are disclosed in Note 25 to the 
Financial Statements.
Valuation of Land, Buildings and 
Investment Properties
All land and buildings owned by Group 
companies were revalued as at 31 December 
2021 and the carrying value amounted to 
Rs.101,326 Mn (2021 - Rs.90,642 Mn). All 
information related to revaluation is given in 
Note 22.3 to the Financial Statements.
Investment properties of business units, when 
significantly occupied by Group companies, 
are classified as property, plant and equipment 
in the consolidated financial statements in 
compliance with LKAS 40.
The Group revalued all its investment 
properties as at 31 December 2021, and the 
carrying value amounted to Rs.30,608 Mn 
(2021- Rs.14,868 Mn). All information related 
to revaluation of the investment properties 
is provided in Note 24 to the Financial 
Statements. 
Details of the Group’s real estate as at 31 March 
2022, are disclosed in the Group Real Estate 
Portfolio in the Supplementary Information 
section of the Annual Report.
Investments
Detailed description of the long term 
investments held as at the reporting date, is 
given in Notes 26, 27 and 28 to the Financial 
Statements.
Stated Capital
Stated Capital as at 31 March 2022 for 
the Company amounted to Rs.73,188 Mn 
(2021 - Rs.63,102 Mn). The movement and 
composition of the Stated Capital is disclosed 
in the Statement of Changes in Equity and in 
Note 34.1 to the Financial Statements.
Private placement of ordinary shares
In November 2021, the Company resolved to 
raise funds through a private placement of 
ordinary shares for a maximum cumulative 
amount of the Rs. equivalent of USD 80 million 
to the Asian Development Bank in two phases. 
In January 2022, the first phase of the above 
transaction was completed, where JKH issued 
65,042,006 ordinary shares at Rs.154.50 per 
share to ADB for a consideration of the Rs. 
equivalent of USD 50 million, resulting in a 
post-issue dilution of 4.70 per cent subsequent 
to the first phase. 
Additionally, in terms of second phase, the 
Company also issued 39,025,204 non-tradable/
non-transferable options, entitling ADB to 
subscribe for additional new ordinary shares 
of the Company, for an investment amount of 
up to a maximum of the Rs. equivalent of USD 
30 million. The options exercise price would be 
based on the volume weighted average price 
of the Company’s ordinary shares as quoted 
on the CSE during the 90 calendar days ending 
immediately prior to the option exercise date, 
subject to the floor price of Rs.165.00 and cap 
price of Rs.200.00 and is exercisable between 
19 October 2022 and 18 January 2023.
Based on the above, the maximum number 
of ordinary shares that would potentially 
be issued under the entire transaction, 
assuming all options are subscribed for, will be 
104,067,210, thereby capping the post-issue 
dilution on the conclusion of both phases to a 
maximum of 7.31 per cent.
Revenue Reserves
Revenue reserves as at 31 March 2022 for the 
Company and Group amounted to Rs.90,582 
Mn (2021 - Rs.68,217 Mn) and Rs.109,087 
Mn (2021 - Rs.90,652 Mn), respectively. The 
movement of the revenue reserve is disclosed 
in the Statement of Changes in Equity.
Share Information
The distribution and composition of 
shareholders and the information relating 
to earnings, dividends, net assets, market 
value per share and share trading is given 
in the Share Information section of the 
Annual Report. As additional disclosures, the 
Company’s Board of Directors’ (including their 
close family members) shareholdings, options 
available under the employee share option 
(ESOP) plans as at 31 March 2022, market 
capitalisation, public holding percentage and 
number of public shareholders are given in 
the Share Information section of the Annual 
Report. 
Major Shareholders
Details of the twenty largest shareholders 
of the Company and the percentages held 
by each of them are disclosed in the Share 
Information section of the Annual Report.
Equitable Treatment of Shareholders 
The Company has at all times ensured that all 
shareholders are treated equitably.
The Board of Directors
The Board of Directors of the Company as at 
31 March 2022 and their brief profiles are given 
in the Corporate Governance section of the 
Annual Report.
Retirement and Re-Election of Directors 
Retirement and Re-Election of Directors of the 
Company as at 31 March 2022 are given in the 
Proxy Form.
Review of the Performance of the Board
The performance of the board has been 
appraised through a formalised process, 
where each individual Director anonymously 
comments on the dynamics of the Board. 
The process is described in the Corporate 
Governance Commentary section of the 
Annual Report.
Board Committees
Information relating to members of the 
Audit Committee, Human Resources and 
Compensation Committee, Nominations 
Committee, Related Party Transactions Review 
Committee and Project Risk Assessment 
Committee, including reports of each of the 
committees, where applicable, and attendance 
of Directors for each of the committee 
meetings, are disclosed in the Corporate 
Governance Commentary section of the 
Annual Report.
Interests Register and Interests in 
Contracts
The Company has maintained an Interests 
Register as contemplated by the Companies 
Act No 7 of 2007.
This Annual Report also contains particulars 
of entries made in the Interests Registers of 
subsidiaries which are public companies or 
private companies which have not dispensed 
with the requirement to maintain an Interests 

199
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance       Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
Register as permitted by Section 30 of the 
Companies Act No 7 of 2007.
The Directors have all made a general 
disclosure relating to share dealings and 
indemnities and remuneration to the Board 
of Directors as permitted by Section 192 (2) 
of the Companies Act No 7 of 2007 and no 
additional interests have been disclosed by 
any Director. The Interest Register is available at 
the registered head office of the Company, in 
keeping with the requirements of the section 
119 (1) (d) of the Companies Act No 7 of 2007. 
Share Dealings
Other than for following entries, particulars of 
the Company interest register are disclosed in 
the Share Information section of the Annual 
Report. 
John Keells Holdings PLC 
• Sam Innovators (Pvt) Ltd (M A Omar - 
Director) Purchase 3,129,515 shares
• Mrs. S A Omar (Spouse of Mr. M A Omar - 
Director) Purchase 100,000 shares
• Phoenix Ventures (Pvt) Ltd (M A Omar and 
A N Fonseka - Directors) Purchase 695,000 
shares
• Mr. D A Cabraal (Director) Purchase 105,000 
shares
• Mr. J G A Cooray (Director) Inheritance 1,482 
shares
Given below are the particulars of’ share 
dealings of subsidiaries reported, for 
subsidiaries which are public companies, or 
private companies, which have not dispensed 
with the requirement to maintain an interest 
register for the period from 1 April 2021 to 31 
March 2022.
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC 
• S T Ratwatte (Director) - Purchase of 1,678 
shares
Indemnities and Remuneration 
The Board approved the payment of 
remuneration of the following Executive 
Directors for the period of 1 April 2021 to 31 
March 2022 comprising of; 
• A short term variable incentive based on 
the individual performance, organisation 
performance and role responsibility 
based on the results of the financial year 
2020/2021, and 
• A long term incentive plan including 
employee share options in John Keells 
Holdings PLC.
John Keells Holdings PLC
•  K N J Balendra
•  J G A Cooray
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC
•  D P Gamlath
•  P N Fernando
Cinnamon Hotel Management Ltd
•  J E P Kehelpannala 
•  M H Singhawansa
Walkers Tours Ltd
•  I N Amaratunga
All approvals relating to indemnities and 
remuneration have been recommended by 
the Human Resources and Compensation 
Committee, taking into consideration inputs 
from market surveys, expert opinions and the 
specific management complexities associated 
with the John Keells Group and in keeping 
with the Group remuneration policy.
The contracts and standard director fees of the 
following Non-Executive Directors have been 
approved / renewed by the Board. The director 
fees are commensurate with the market 
complexities associated with the John Keells 
Group.
Asian Hotels & Properties PLC
• J Durairatnam
• A S De Zoysa
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC
• M Hamza
Tea Smallholders Factories PLC
• S K L Obeyesekere
• A S Jayatilleke
Trans Asia Hotels PLC
• H A J De Silva Wijeratne (Appointed w.e.f 25 
June 2021)
Union Assurance PLC
•  D H Fernando
• S A Appleyard
Fees payable to Non-Executive Nominee 
Directors of John Keells Holdings PLC was 
paid to John Keells Holdings PLC and not to 
individual Directors.
Directors’ Remuneration
Details of the remuneration and other benefits 
received by the Directors are set out in Note 
44.7 to the Financial Statements.
Related Party Transactions
The Company’s transactions with Related 
Parties, given in Note 44 to the Financial 
Statements, have complied with Colombo 
Stock Exchange Listing Rule 9.3.2 and the 
Code of Best Practices on Related Party 
Transactions under the Securities and 
Exchange Commission Directive issued under 
Section 13(c) of the Securities and Exchange 
Commission Act.
Employee Share Option Plan (ESOP)
At the beginning of the year, the employee 
share option plan consisted of the Ninth and 
Tenth plans approved by the shareholders on 
24 June 2016 and 28 June 2019 respectively.
The Directors confirm that the Company has 
not granted any funding to employees to 
exercise options.
Details of the options granted, options 
exercised, the grant price and the options 
cancelled or lapsed and outstanding as at the 
date of the Directors’ Report, as required by the 
Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange, 
are given under the Share Information section 
of the Annual Report.
The highest, lowest and the closing prices of 
the Company shares are disclosed in the Share 
Information section of the Annual Report.
Employment
The Group has an equal opportunity policy 
and these principles are enshrined in 
specific selection, training, development and 
promotion policies, ensuring that all decisions 
are based on merit. The Group practices 
equality of opportunity for all employees 
irrespective of ethnic origin, religion, political 
opinion, gender, marital status or physical 
disability. Employee ownership in the 
Company is facilitated through the employee 
share option plan.
Details of the Group’s human resource 
initiatives are detailed in the Human Capital 
section of the Capital Management Review 
section of the Annual Report.

200 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Annual Report of the Board of Directors
The number of persons employed by the 
Company and Group as at 31 March 2022 was 
152 (2021 - 110) and 15,551 (2021 - 13,831), 
respectively.
There have been no material issues pertaining 
to employees and industrial relations of the 
Company and the Group.
Equity & Inclusion Policy
The Group recognises the importance of 
diversity, equity and inclusion and the role 
it plays in ensuring workplace respect, 
organisational success and sustainability for 
all stakeholders. In this regard, it is committed 
to providing a working environment where 
all employees are included, their diversity is 
embraced and where their contributions are 
valued. The Group believes that its workforce 
should reflect the diversity of the communities 
in which its businesses operate and the diverse 
set of stakeholders it creates value for, within 
the organisation and with its partners and 
vendors, and that positive relationships with 
stakeholder groups, which are also diverse 
and inclusive, will enable businesses to further 
augment its diversity and growth journey. 
The Group recognises that organisations that 
constitute diverse and inclusive workforces 
are best placed to innovate, retain talent and 
deliver better overall results and firmly believes 
that it can achieve its highest potential through 
bringing together diverse perspectives and 
backgrounds. It is committed to advancing 
a culture of equitable inclusion amongst its 
workforce and value chain and ensuring that 
the dignity and diversity of all employees and 
value chain partners are respected.
Supplier Policy
The Group applies an overall policy of 
agreeing and clearly communicating the 
terms of payment as part of the commercial 
agreements negotiated with suppliers, and 
endeavours to pay for all items in accordance 
with these agreed terms. The significant 
macroeconomic volatility and impacts on 
supply chains necessitated discussions with 
suppliers to ensure minimal disruptions, 
particularly during the latter half of the 
financial year. As at 31 March 2022, the trade 
and other payables of the Company and 
Group amounted to Rs.566 Mn (2021 - Rs.373 
Mn) and Rs.43,469 Mn (2021 - Rs.35,288 Mn), 
respectively.
The Group strives to integrate principles 
of sustainable practices and policies in its 
value chain through extensive stakeholder 
consultations, the findings of which are 
integrated into work-plans. 
Ratios and Market price information 
The ratios relating to equity, debt and market 
price information as required by the listing 
requirements of the Colombo Stock Exchange 
are given under the Share Information section 
of this Report.
Corporate Governance
The Board of Directors is committed 
towards maintaining an effective Corporate 
Governance Framework by effectively 
implementing systems and structures required 
to ensuring best practices in Corporate 
Governance. The manner in which the 
Company has complied Section 7.10 of the 
Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange 
(CSE) on Corporate Governance are given 
under the in Corporate Governance section of 
this report. 
Sustainability
The Group pursues its business goals based 
on a model of stakeholder governance. 
Findings of the continuous internal stakeholder 
engagements have enabled the Group to focus 
on material issues such as the conservation 
of natural resources and the environment as 
well as material issues highlighted by other 
stakeholders such as employees, customers, 
suppliers and the community. These steps have 
been encapsulated in a Group-wide strategy 
focused on sustainable development which 
is continuously evolving based on the above 
mentioned stakeholder engagements.
This is the Group’s seventh Integrated Annual 
Report, which presents a comprehensive 
discussion on its financial and non-financial 
performance, in a bid to provide its 
stakeholders with holistic information relating 
to its value creation proposition through 
the six forms of capital reported under the 
International <IR> Framework. The Group has 
sought independent third-party assurance 
from DNV GL, represented in Sri Lanka by DNV 
Business Assurance Lanka (Pvt) Ltd, in relation 
to the non-financial information contained in 
this report. 
Research and Development
The Group has an active approach to research 
and development and recognises the 
contribution that it can make to intellectual 
property and the Group’s operations. 
Significant expenditure has taken place over 
the years and substantial efforts will continue 
to be made to introduce intellectual property 
rights, develop new products and processes 
and improve the operational efficiency of 
existing products and processes.
Environmental Protection
The Group complies with the relevant 
environmental laws, regulations and 
endeavours to comply with best practices 
applicable in the country of operation. 
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
John Keells Foundation, which is funded 
by JKH and its subsidiaries, handles most of 
the Group’s CSR initiatives and activities. The 
Foundation manages a range of programmes 
that underpin its key principle of acting 
responsibly towards its stakeholders and to 
bring about sustainable development in the 
focus areas. The CSR initiatives, including 
completed and on-going projects, are detailed 
in the Group Consolidated Review section in 
the Annual Report.
In quantifying the Group’s contribution to CSR 
initiatives and activities, no account has been 
taken of in-house costs or management time.
Donations
Total donations made by the Company and the 
Group during the year amounted to Rs.3 Mn 
(2021 - Rs.5 Mn) and Rs.8.5 Mn (2021 - Rs.7 Mn), 
respectively. These amounts do not include 
contributions on account of corporate social 
responsibility (CSR) initiatives.
Statutory Payments
The Directors confirm that to the best of 
their knowledge, all taxes, duties and levies 
payable by the Company and its subsidiaries, 
all contributions, levies and taxes payable on 
behalf of, and in respect of, the employees 
of the Company and its subsidiaries, and all 
other known statutory dues as were due and 
payable by the Company and its subsidiaries as 
at the statement of financial position date have 
been paid or, where relevant, provided for, 
except as specified in Note 45 to the Financial 
Statements covering contingent liabilities.

201
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance       Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
Compliance with Laws and Regulations 
To the best of knowledge and belief of the 
Directors, the Company and the Group have 
not engaged in any activity, which contravenes 
laws and regulations of the country.
Enterprise Risk Management and Internal 
Controls
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing 
process of identifying, evaluating and 
managing any significant risk faced by the 
Group, where annual risk reviews are carried 
out by the Enterprise Risk Management 
Division and the risks are further reviewed each 
quarter by each business unit. The headline 
risks of each listed Company are presented 
by the Business Unit to its respective Audit 
Committee for review and in the case of 
John Keells Holdings PLC, by the Enterprise 
Risk Management Division to the John Keells 
Holdings PLC Audit Committee.
The Corporate Governance section to this 
Report elaborates on these practices and the 
Group’s risk factors.
Internal Controls and Assurance 
The Board, through the involvement of the 
Group Business Process Review Division, takes 
steps to gain assurance on the effectiveness 
over the financial, operational and risk 
management control systems in place. The 
Audit Committee receives regular reports on 
the adequacy and effectiveness of internal 
controls in the Group, compliance with laws 
and regulations and established policies and 
procedures of the Group. The head of the 
Group Business Process Review Division has 
direct access to the Chairman of the Audit 
Committee. Reports of the outsourced internal 
auditors are also reviewed by the Committee.
Events After the Reporting Period 
There have been no events subsequent to 
the reporting period, which would have any 
material effect on the Company or on the 
Group other than those disclosed in Note 48 to 
the Financial Statements.
Going Concern
It is the view of the management there 
are no material uncertainties that may cast 
significant doubt on the Groups’ ability to 
continue to operate as going concern. During 
the year the operating environment improved 
despite the ongoing, but subsiding, effects 
of the pandemic. More notably, the current 
macroeconomic, political and social instability 
has caused significant disruptions to supply 
chains and the business outlook. Despite 
these, the operationalisation of risk mitigation 
initiatives and continuous monitoring of 
business continuity and response plans at each 
business unit level along with the financial 
strength of the Group support the view of the 
management. The management have formed 
judgment that the Company, its subsidiaries, 
associates and joint ventures have adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence 
for the foreseeable future and continue to 
adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
and presenting these financial statements.
Appointment and Remuneration of 
Independent Auditors
Messrs. Ernst & Young, Chartered Accountants, 
are willing to continue as Auditors of the 
Company, and a resolution proposing their 
reappointment will be tabled at the Annual 
General Meeting.
The Independent Auditors’ Report is found in 
the Financial Statements section of the Annual 
Report.
The Audit Committee reviews the 
appointment of the Auditor, its effectiveness, 
its independence and its relationship with the 
Group, including the level of audit and non-
audit fees paid to the Auditor.
The Group works with 3 firms of Chartered 
Accountants across the Group, namely, Ernst 
& Young, KPMG and PricewaterhouseCoopers. 
Details of audit fees are set out in Note 18 
to the Financial Statements. The Auditors do 
not have any relationship (other than that of 
an Auditor) with the Company or any of its 
subsidiaries.
Further details on the work of the Auditor and 
the Audit Committee are set out in the Audit 
Committee Report.
Integrated Annual Report 
The Board of Directors approved the 
consolidated financial statements on 23 May 
2022. The requisite number of copies of this 
report will be submitted to the Colombo Stock 
Exchange and to the Sri Lanka Accounting and 
Auditing Standards Monitoring Board.
Annual General Meeting
The Notice of Meeting of the Annual General 
Meeting appears in the Supplementary 
Information section of the Annual Report. 
This Annual Report is signed for and on behalf 
of the Board of Directors.
By Order of the Board
Director
Director
Keells Consultants (Pvt) Ltd
Secretaries
23 May 2022

202 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
The Statement of Directors’ Responsibility
The responsibility of the Directors in relation 
to the financial statements is set out in the 
following statement. The responsibility of the 
auditors, in relation to the financial statements 
prepared in accordance with the provision of 
the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007, is set out in 
the Report of the Auditors. 
The financial statements comprise of: 
• income statement and statement of 
comprehensive income of the Company 
and its subsidiaries, which present a true 
and fair view of the financial performance 
of the Company and its subsidiaries for the 
financial year; and
• a statement of financial position, which 
presents a true and fair view of the state of 
affairs of the Company and its subsidiaries 
as at the end of the financial year: and 
The Directors are required to confirm that the 
financial statements:
have been prepared: 
• using appropriate accounting policies 
which have been selected and applied in a 
consistent manner, and material departures, 
if any, have been disclosed and explained; 
and
are
• presented in accordance with the Sri Lanka 
Accounting Standards (SLFRS/LKAS); and 
that reasonable and prudent judgments 
and estimates have been made so that 
the form and substance of transactions are 
properly reflected; and
• provide the information required by and 
otherwise comply with the Companies Act 
and the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock 
Exchange. 
The Directors are also required to ensure 
that the Company has adequate resources 
to continue in operation to justify applying 
the going concern basis in preparing these 
financial statements. 
Further, the Directors have a responsibility 
to ensure that the Company maintains 
sufficient accounting records to disclose, with 
reasonable accuracy, the financial position of 
the Company and of the Group.
The Directors are also responsible for taking 
reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of 
the Company and of the Group and in this 
regard to give proper consideration to the 
establishment of appropriate internal control 
systems with a view to preventing and 
detecting fraud and other irregularities. 
The Directors are required to prepare the 
financial statements and to provide the 
auditors with every opportunity to take 
whatever steps and undertake whatever 
inspections that may be considered being 
appropriate to enable them to give their audit 
opinion.
As required by Section 56 (2) of the Companies 
Act No. 7 of 2007, the Board of Directors have 
confirmed that the Company, based on the 
information available, satisfies the solvency 
test immediately after the distribution, in 
accordance with Section 57 of the Companies 
Act No. 7 of 2007, and have obtained a 
certificate from the auditors, prior to declaring 
all dividend. A final dividend will be paid on or 
before 22 June 2022 to those shareholders on 
the register as of 31 May 2022.
The Directors are of the view that they have 
discharged their responsibilities as set out in 
this statement. 
Compliance Report
The Directors confirm that to the best of 
their knowledge, all taxes, duties and levies 
payable by the Company and its subsidiaries, 
all contributions, levies and taxes payable on 
behalf of and in respect of the employees 
of the Company and its subsidiaries, and 
all other known statutory dues as were 
due and payable by the Company and its 
subsidiaries as at the reporting date have 
been paid, or where relevant provided for, 
except as specified in Note 45 to the Financial 
Statements covering contingent liabilities.
By order of the Board
Keells Consultants (Pvt) Ltd.
Secretaries
23 May 2022

203
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance       Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
Independent Auditors’ Report
TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF JOHN KEELLS 
HOLDINGS PLC
Report on the audit of the Financial 
Statements
Opinion
We have audited the financial statements of 
John Keells Holdings PLC (“the Company”) and 
the consolidated financial statements of the 
Company and its subsidiaries (“the Group”), which 
comprise the statement of financial position as 
at 31 March 2022, and the income statement 
and the statement of comprehensive income, 
statement of changes in equity and statement of 
cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to 
the financial statements, including a summary of 
significant accounting policies.
In our opinion, the accompanying financial 
statements of the Company and the Group give 
a true and fair view of the financial position of the 
Company and the Group as at 31 March 2022, 
and of their financial performance and cash flows 
for the year then ended in accordance with Sri 
Lanka Accounting Standards.
Basis for opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with 
Sri Lanka Auditing Standards (SLAuSs). Our 
responsibilities under those standards are further 
described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for 
the audit of the financial statements section of 
our report. We are independent of the Group in 
accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by CA 
Sri Lanka (Code of Ethics) and we have fulfilled 
our other ethical responsibilities in accordance 
with the Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit 
evidence we have obtained is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Key audit matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our 
professional judgment, were of most significance 
in our audit of the financial statements of the 
current period. These matters were addressed 
in the context of our audit of the financial 
statements as a whole, and in forming our 
opinion thereon, and we do not provide a 
separate opinion on these matters. For each 
matter below, our description of how our audit 
addressed the matter is provided in that context. 
We have fulfilled the responsibilities described 
in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit 
of the financial statements section of our 
report, including in relation to these matters. 
Accordingly, our audit included the performance 
of procedures designed to respond to our 
assessment of the risks of material misstatement 
of the financial statements. The results of our 
audit procedures, including the procedures 
performed to address the matters below, 
provide the basis for our audit opinion on the 
accompanying financial statements.
Key audit matter 
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Recognition and measurement of Group revenue
Revenue of the group is derived from diverse operating segments as 
further disclosed in Note 8.
Revenue was a key audit matter due to; 
• the significance of the amount of Rs. 218 Bn generated from industry 
specific sales arrangements for products and services. 
• the recognition of revenue in the property segment considering 
the terms and conditions of the customer contracts and the 
management’s assessment of meeting its performance obligations at 
a point in time. 
• reliance on Information Technology (IT) in the operating segments, 
especially the Retail and Consumer food segments. 
Our audit procedures amongst others included the following; 
We identified the operating segments that generated significant 
revenues and performed the following key procedures, with the 
involvement of component auditors, where relevant;
• Performed appropriate analytical procedures to understand and 
assess the reasonableness of the reported revenues. 
• Evaluated the design of internal controls and tested the operating 
effectiveness of relevant controls relating to sale of goods and service 
arrangements.
• Due to the reliance on IT in revenue recognition, we tested the 
general IT control environment and the key IT application controls 
relating to the most significant IT systems relevant to revenue 
recognition. 
• Tested the appropriateness of revenue recognised by reviewing the 
relevant sales contracts and other supporting documents including 
review of property development contracts to determine whether 
the related performance obligations have been satisfied for revenue 
recognition. 
We also assessed the adequacy of the disclosures in respect of revenue 
in Notes 8 and 14 to the financial statements.

204 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Key audit matter 
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Assessment of fair value of land and buildings
Property, Plant and Equipment and Investment Property include land 
and buildings carried at fair value. The fair values of land and buildings 
were determined by an external valuer engaged by the Group. 
This was a key audit matter due to:
• Materiality of the reported land & buildings balances which amounted 
to Rs. 132 Bn and represent 18% of the total assets.
• The degree of assumptions, judgements and estimation uncertainties 
associated with fair valuation of land and buildings such as reliance on 
comparable market transactions, and current market conditions
Key areas of significant judgments, estimates and assumptions used in 
the valuation of the land and buildings included the following:
• Estimate of per perch value of the land
• Estimate of the per square foot value of the buildings
Our audit procedures were based on the best available information as 
at date of this report and focused on the valuations performed by the 
external valuer engaged by the Group. Our procedures included the 
following;
• We assessed the competency, capability and objectivity of the 
external valuer engaged by the Group.
• We read the external valuer’s report and understood the key estimates 
made and the approach taken by the valuer in determining the 
valuation of each land and building.
• We assessed the reasonableness of the significant judgements made 
by the valuer and valuation techniques, per perch price and value 
per square foot used by the valuer in the valuation of each land and 
building.
We have also assessed the adequacy of the disclosures made in Notes 22 
and 24 to the financial statements relating to the significant judgements, 
valuation techniques and estimates used by the external valuer.
Life insurance contract liabilities
Life Insurance Contract Liabilities amounting to Rs 51.3 Bn (note 36), 
represent 13% of total liabilities of the Group as at 31 March 2022, and 
are determined based on an actuarial valuation as described in note 36 
to the financial statements.
This was a key audit matter due to:
• Materiality of the reported Life Insurance Contract Liabilities;
• The degree of assumptions, judgements and estimation uncertainty 
associated with the actuarial valuation of Life Insurance Contract 
Liabilities; and
• Liability adequacy test carried out to ensure the adequacy of the 
carrying value of Life Insurance Contract Liabilities.
Key areas of significant judgments, estimates and assumptions used 
in the valuation of the Life Insurance Contract Liabilities included the 
following:
• The determination of assumptions such as mortality, morbidity, lapses 
and surrenders, loss ratios, bonus, interest rates, discount rates and 
related claim handling expenses.
To assess the reasonableness of the Life Insurance Contract Liabilities, 
our audit procedures included amongst others the following and were 
based on the best information available up to date of this report: 
• We involved the component auditor of the subsidiary company to 
perform the audit procedures to assess the reasonableness of the 
assumptions and test the controls on sample basis over the process of 
estimating the insurance contract liabilities. 
• We involved the internal expert of component auditor of the 
subsidiary company to assess the reasonableness of the assumptions 
used in the valuations of the insurance contract liabilities. 
We assessed the adequacy of the disclosures made and the movement 
in the insurance contract liabilities.
Compliance with interest bearing loan covenants
As of the reporting date, the Group reported total interest-bearing 
borrowings of Rs. 214 Bn, of which Rs. 55 Bn is reported as current 
liabilities and the balance Rs. 159 Bn as non-current liabilities.
Interest bearing borrowings was a key audit matter due to the existence 
of numerous financial and non-financial covenants, the breach of which 
could impact the classification of the loans in the financial statements.
Our audit procedures included amongst others the following: 
• We obtained an understanding of the covenants attached to 
borrowings, by perusing the loan agreements.  
• We assessed the design and operating effectiveness of controls 
implemented for recording of the borrowings, monitoring, evaluating 
and timely reporting on covenant compliances in relation to interest 
bearing borrowings.  
We assessed the adequacy and appropriateness of the disclosures 
made in Note 37 to the financial statements relating to interest bearing 
borrowings.
Independent Auditors’ Report
Other information included in the Group’s 
2021/22 Annual Report
Other information consists of the information 
included in the Annual Report, other than the 
financial statements and our auditor’s report 
thereon. Management is responsible for the other 
information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does 
not cover the other information and we do 
not express any form of assurance conclusion 
thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial 
statements, our responsibility is to read the other 
information and, in doing so, consider whether 
the other information is materially inconsistent 
with the financial statements or our knowledge 
obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to 
be materially misstated. If, based on the work 
we have performed, we conclude that there is a 
material misstatement of this other information, 
we are required to report that fact. We have 
nothing to report in this regard.

205
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance       Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
Responsibilities of management and 
those charged with governance
Management is responsible for the preparation 
of financial statements that give a true and fair 
view in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting 
Standards, and for such internal control as 
management determines is necessary to enable 
the preparation of financial statements that are 
free from material misstatement, whether due to 
fraud or error. 
In preparing the financial statements, 
management is responsible for assessing the 
Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, 
disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going 
concern and using the going concern basis of 
accounting unless management either intends to 
liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has 
no realistic alternative but to do so. 
Those charged with governance are responsible 
for overseeing the Company’s and the Group’s 
financial reporting process.
Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of 
the financial statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether the financial statements as a 
whole are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error, and to issue 
an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. 
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, 
but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted 
in accordance with SLAuSs will always detect a 
material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and 
are considered material if, individually or in the 
aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to 
influence the economic decisions of users taken 
on the basis of these financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SLAuSs, 
we exercise professional judgment and maintain 
professional scepticism throughout the audit. 
We also: 
• Identify and assess the risks of material 
misstatement of the financial statements, 
whether due to fraud or error, design and 
perform audit procedures responsive to 
those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a 
material misstatement resulting from fraud 
is higher than for one resulting from error, as 
fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional 
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override 
of internal control.
• Obtain an understanding of internal controls 
relevant to the audit in order to design 
audit procedures that are appropriate in the 
circumstances, but not for the purpose of 
expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of 
the internal controls of the Company and the 
Group.
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting 
policies used and the reasonableness of 
accounting estimates and related disclosures 
made by management.
• Conclude on the appropriateness of 
management’s use of the going concern 
basis of accounting and, based on the audit 
evidence obtained, whether a material 
uncertainty exists related to events or 
conditions that may cast significant doubt 
on the Group’s ability to continue as a going 
concern. If we conclude that a material 
uncertainty exists, we are required to draw 
attention in our auditor’s report to the related 
disclosures in the financial statements or, if 
such disclosures are inadequate, to modify 
our opinion. Our conclusions are based on 
the audit evidence obtained up to the date of 
our auditor’s report. However, future events or 
conditions may cause the Group to cease to 
continue as a going concern.
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure 
and content of the financial statements, 
including the disclosures, and whether the 
financial statements represent the underlying 
transactions and events in a manner that 
achieves fair presentation.
• Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence 
regarding the financial information of the 
entities or business activities within the Group 
to express an opinion on the consolidated 
financial statements. We are responsible for the 
direction, supervision and performance of the 
Group audit. We remain solely responsible for 
our audit opinion. 
We communicate with those charged with 
governance regarding, among other matters, 
the planned scope and timing of the audit 
and significant audit findings, including any 
significant deficiencies in internal control that we 
identify during our audit. 
We also provide those charged with governance 
with a statement that we have complied with 
ethical requirements in accordance with the 
Code of Ethics regarding independence, and to 
communicate with them all relationships and 
other matters that may reasonably be thought to 
bear on our independence, and where applicable, 
related safeguards. 
From the matters communicated with those 
charged with governance, we determine those 
matters that were of most significance in the 
audit of the financial statements of the current 
period and are therefore the key audit matters. 
We describe these matters in our auditor’s 
report unless law or regulation precludes public 
disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely 
rare circumstances, we determine that a matter 
should not be communicated in our report 
because the adverse consequences of doing so 
would reasonably be expected to outweigh the 
public interest benefits of such communication.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory 
Requirements
As required by section 163 (2) of the Companies 
Act No. 07 of 2007, we have obtained all the 
information and explanations that were required 
for the audit and, as far as appears from our 
examination, proper accounting records have 
been kept by the Group. 
CA Sri Lanka membership number of the 
engagement partner responsible for signing this 
independent auditor’s report is 2097.
23 May 2022
Colombo

206 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Income Statement
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
Note
2022
2021
2022
2021
In Rs.'000s
Continuing operations 
Revenue from contracts with customers 
 202,849,175 
 114,454,483 
 1,875,722 
 1,637,063 
Revenue from insurance contracts 
 15,225,571 
 13,221,167 
 - 
 - 
Total revenue 
14
 218,074,746 
 127,675,650 
 1,875,722 
 1,637,063 
Cost of sales
 (180,430,008)
 (108,747,058)
 (1,085,049)
 (957,490)
Gross profit
 37,644,738 
 18,928,592 
 790,673 
 679,573 
Dividend income
15
 - 
 - 
 8,007,649 
 8,346,260 
Other operating income
16.1
 2,614,793 
 2,626,544 
 51,344 
 40,610 
Selling and distribution expenses
 (5,732,694)
 (4,761,037)
 - 
 - 
Administrative expenses
 (14,762,643)
 (12,927,716)
 (1,283,215)
 (1,050,270)
Other operating expenses
16.2
(12,456,008)
 (1,314,409)
 (514,478)
 (21,473)
Results from operating activities
7,308,186 
 2,551,974 
 7,051,973 
 7,994,700 
Finance cost
17
 (7,034,757)
 (4,669,206)
 (2,966,139)
 (1,244,941)
Finance income
17
 30,806,179 
 10,688,722 
 24,198,282 
 4,617,329 
Change in insurance contract liabilities
36.2
 (6,416,299)
 (7,031,692)
 - 
 - 
Change in fair value of investment property
24
 (4,084,755)
 (253,425)
 - 
 - 
Share of results of equity accounted investees (net of tax)
27.3
6,745,939 
 4,158,793 
 - 
 - 
Profit before tax 
 27,324,493 
 5,445,166 
 28,284,116 
 11,367,088 
Tax expense
21.1
 (6,881,586)
 (1,494,275)
 (3,902,709)
 (801,201)
Profit for the year 
 20,442,907 
 3,950,891 
 24,381,407 
 10,565,887 
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent
 20,212,968 
 4,772,100 
Non-controlling interests
 229,939 
 (821,209)
 20,442,907 
 3,950,891 
 Rs.
 Rs.
Earnings per share
 
Basic
19.1
15.13
 3.62 
Diluted
19.2
15.12
 3.62 
Dividend per share
20
1.50
 1.50 
Figures in brackets indicate deductions.
The accounting policies and notes as set out in pages 212 to 292 form an integral part of these financial statements.

207
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance       Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
Statement of Comprehensive Income
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
Note
2022
2021
2022
2021
In Rs.'000s
Profit for the year
 20,442,907
 3,950,891 
 24,381,407
 10,565,887 
Other comprehensive income
Other comprehensive income to be reclassified to Income 
Statement in subsequent periods
Currency translation of foreign operations
 50,010,858 
 4,565,885 
 - 
 - 
Net gain/(loss) on cash flow hedges
 2,612,965 
 860,498 
 2,199,499 
 729,316 
Net gain/(loss) on financial instruments at fair value through other 
comprehensive income
 (1,629,621)
 414,991 
 - 
 - 
Share of other comprehensive income of equity accounted 
investees (net of tax)
 3,965,050 
 282,589 
 - 
 - 
Net other comprehensive income to be reclassified to Income 
Statement in subsequent periods
 54,959,252 
 6,123,963 
 2,199,499 
 729,316 
Other comprehensive income not to be reclassified to Income 
Statement in subsequent periods
Net gain / (loss) on equity instruments at fair value through other 
comprehensive income
 (16,145)
 3,260 
 (6,923)
 3,297 
Revaluation of land and buildings
22.1
 4,626,359 
 477,030 
 - 
 - 
Re-measurement gain / (loss) on defined benefit plans
38.2
 24,720 
 (95,096)
 (3,810)
 (2,135)
Share of other comprehensive income of equity accounted 
investees (net of tax)
 13,541 
 (33,843)
 - 
 - 
Net other comprehensive income not to be reclassified to Income 
Statement in subsequent periods
 4,648,475 
 351,351 
 (10,733)
 1,162 
Tax on other comprehensive income
21.2
 (806,930)
 (135,306) 
-
 - 
Other comprehensive income for the period, net of tax
 58,800,797 
 6,340,008 
 2,188,766 
 730,478 
Total comprehensive income for the period, net of tax 
 79,243,704 
 10,290,899 
 26,570,173 
 11,296,365 
Attributable to : 
Equity holders of the parent 
 76,732,956 
10,760,991
Non-controlling interests 
 2,510,748 
(470,092)
 79,243,704 
10,290,899
Figures in brackets indicate deductions.
The accounting policies and notes as set out in pages 212 to 292 form an integral part of these financial statements.

208 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Statement of Financial Position
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
Note
2022
2021
2022
2021
In Rs.'000s
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment
 22 
 124,347,604 
 113,076,642 
 83,233 
 110,801 
Right- of - use assets
 23 
 53,481,574 
 40,616,850 
 - 
 - 
Investment property
 24 
 30,607,550 
14,867,586 
 - 
 - 
Intangible assets
 25 
 5,399,338 
 4,852,978 
 94,363 
 97,522 
Investments in subsidiaries 
 26 
 - 
 - 
 116,966,595 
101,334,536
Investments in equity accounted investees
 27 
 33,865,556 
 28,629,936 
 13,261,772 
 10,596,880 
Non-current financial assets
 28 
 48,690,489 
 62,589,803 
 3,083,037 
 17,611,121 
Deferred tax assets
 21.4 
 1,554,438 
 1,089,027 
 - 
 - 
Other non-current assets
 29 
 180,919,979 
 104,580,215 
 119,755 
 92,668 
 478,866,528 
 370,303,037 
 133,608,755 
 129,843,528 
Current assets
Inventories
 30 
 36,224,887 
 54,296,123 
 - 
 - 
Trade and other receivables
 31 
 27,495,348 
 17,456,698 
 103,914 
 114,780 
Amounts due from related parties
44.1
 196,394 
 123,553 
 660,699 
 1,465,816 
Other current assets
 32 
 11,914,461 
 5,919,453 
 816,604 
 170,901 
Short term investments
 33 
 110,721,544 
 69,262,761 
 83,972,660 
 51,591,037 
Cash in hand and at bank
 52,376,531 
 19,432,579 
 27,362,010 
 305,373 
 238,929,165 
 166,491,167 
 112,915,887 
 53,647,907 
Total assets
 717,795,693 
 536,794,204 
 246,524,642 
 183,491,435 
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent
Stated capital
 34.1 
 73,187,861 
 63,101,661 
 73,187,861 
 63,101,661 
Revenue reserves
 109,087,163 
 90,651,930 
 90,582,276 
 68,216,871 
Other components of equity
 34.2 
129,011,413 
 72,403,140 
 6,010,081 
 3,621,176 
 311,286,437
 226,156,731 
 169,780,218 
 134,939,708 
Non-controlling interest
 18,805,036 
16,830,098 
-
 - 
Total equity
 330,091,473
 242,986,829 
 169,780,218
 134,939,708 
Non-current liabilities
Insurance contract liabilities
 36 
 51,349,323 
 45,160,611 
 - 
 - 
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
 37 
 158,921,898 
 118,965,640 
 64,634,033 
 44,179,490 
Lease liabilities
 23 
 30,066,952 
 24,234,968 
 - 
 - 
Deferred tax liabilities
 21.4 
 12,016,404 
 7,720,111 
 2,841,984 
 - 
Employee benefit liabilities
 38 
 3,106,617 
 2,814,006 
 297,969 
 231,369 
Non-current financial liabilities
 39 
 2,413,880 
 3,660,952 
 - 
 - 
Other non-current liabilities
 40 
 220,203 
 19,545,655 
 - 
 - 
 258,095,277 
 222,101,943 
 67,773,986 
 44,410,859 
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables
 41 
 43,469,407 
 35,287,700 
 566,252 
 372,711 
Amounts due to related parties
 44.2 
 1,818 
 1,385 
 20,912 
 13,181 
Income tax liabilities
 21.3 
 2,618,554 
 1,988,170 
 880,969 
 717,029 
Short term borrowings
 42 
 14,833,056 
 6,903,737 
 2,000,000 
 - 
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
 37 
 40,624,448 
 9,507,473 
 2,562,994 
3,007,368 
Lease liabilities
 23 
 3,459,496 
 1,472,297 
 - 
 - 
Other current financial liabilities
 - 
 2,991,093 
 - 
 - 
Other current liabilities
 43 
 4,280,387 
 1,733,398 
 - 
 20,796 
Bank overdrafts
 20,321,777 
 11,820,179 
 2,939,311 
 9,783 
 129,608,943 
 71,705,432 
 8,970,438 
 4,140,868 
Total equity and liabilities
 717,795,693 
 536,794,204 
 246,524,642 
 183,491,435 
I certify that the financial statements comply with the requirements of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007.
K M Thanthirige
Group Financial Controller
The Board of Directors is responsible for these financial statements.
K N J Balendra 
J G A Cooray
Chairman 
Deputy Chairman/Group Finance Director
The accounting policies and notes as set out in pages 212 to 292 form an integral part of these financial statements.
23 May 2022
Colombo

209
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance       Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
Statement of Cash Flows
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
Note
2022
2021
2022
2021
In Rs.'000s
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Profit before working capital changes
A
 18,846,184
 4,470,462 
 (254,366)
 (146,513)
(Increase) / Decrease in inventories
 31,067,158 
 (3,987,355)
 - 
 - 
(Increase) / Decrease in trade and other receivables
 (24,703,584)
 (1,066,095)
 812,586 
 (12,321)
(Increase) / Decrease in other current assets
 (3,524,277)
 (277,860)
 (645,703)
 885,527 
(Increase) / Decrease in other non-current assets
 - 
(20,755,867)
-
-
Increase / (Decrease) in other non-current financial liabilities
 (833,606)
172,270 
-
-
Increase / (Decrease) in trade, other payables and other non-current liabilities
 (16,365,525)
 18,340,712 
 202,013 
(37,394)
Increase / (Decrease) in other current liabilities and other current financial liabilities
 2,844,022 
 186,565 
 (20,796)
17,421
Increase / (Decrease) in insurance contract liabilities
 6,188,712 
 6,974,772 
-
 - 
Cash generated from operations
 13,519,084 
4,057,604
 93,734 
 706,720 
Finance income received
 21,401,703 
 9,071,014 
 12,728,549 
 3,675,493 
Finance cost paid
 (4,682,977)
 (2,100,700)
 (2,823,070)
 (791,933)
Dividend received
 3,587,940 
 4,342,651 
 7,782,432 
 7,603,760 
Tax paid
 (3,116,944)
 (1,269,419)
 (892,485)
 (473,682)
Gratuity paid
 (269,012)
 (276,410)
 (1,775)
 (7,968)
Net cash flows from operating activities
 30,439,794 
13,824,740
 16,887,385 
 10,712,390 
CASH FLOWS FROM/(USED IN) INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Purchase and construction of property, plant and equipment
22.1, 22.2
 (6,626,776)
 (5,367,019)
 (14,160)
 (9,077)
Purchase of intangible assets
 (580,932)
 (944,667)
 (30,165)
 (25,611)
Addition to investment property
24
(386,987)
(113,015)
 - 
 - 
Purchase of lease rights
-
 (3,645)
 - 
 - 
Increase in interest in subsidiaries
-
-
 (15,488,558)
 (14,398,397)
(Increase) / Decrease in other non-current assets
 (26,275,996)
 - 
-
-
Increase in interest in equity accounted investees
 (2,946,672)
 (321,256)
(2,945,921)
 (214,999)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets
1,600,605
 105,639 
5,670
 - 
Proceeds from sale of financial instruments - fair value through profit or loss
3,662,251
 1,717,107 
-
-
Proceeds from sale of a subsidiary
-
-
 - 
1,058,000
Purchase of financial instruments - fair value through profit or loss
 (3,059,517)
 (2,357,886)
 - 
 - 
(Purchase) / disposal of deposits and government securities (net)
 77,079,443 
 (37,445,919)
 82,967,106 
 (30,619,278)
(Purchase) / disposal of other non-current financial assets (net)
 (111,553)
 (213,287)
 (2,140)
 -
Exercise of contingent consideration
10.1
 (2,991,093)
-
 - 
-
Net cash flows from/(used in) investing activities
 39,362,773 
(44,943,948)
 64,491,832  (44,209,362)
CASH FLOWS FROM/(USED IN) FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Proceeds from issue of shares 
 10,077,911 
 158,978 
 10,077,911 
 158,978 
Changes in non-controlling interest
 - 
 (5,999,478)
 - 
-
Dividend paid to equity holders of parent
 (2,012,192)
 (1,978,317)
 (2,012,192)
 (1,978,317)
Dividend paid to shareholders with non-controlling interest
 (409,397)
 (443,029)
 - 
-
Proceeds from long term borrowings
37.1
53,876,802 
 71,729,856 
 3,000,000 
 43,865,392 
Repayment of long term borrowings
37.1
 (34,946,688)
 (6,753,731)
 (1,474,806)
 (540,608)
Payment of principal portion of lease liability
 (2,822,370)
 (2,386,808)
 - 
 - 
Proceeds from (repayment of) other financial liabilities (net)
 7,929,319 
 1,099,966 
 2,000,000 
 - 
Net cash flows from / (used in) financing activities
 31,693,385 
 55,427,437 
 11,590,913 
 41,505,445 
NET INCREASE / (DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
 101,495,952
 24,308,229 
 92,970,130
 8,008,473 
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT THE BEGINNING
 33,068,151
 8,759,922 
 14,915,162
 6,906,689 
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT THE END
 134,564,103
 33,068,151  107,885,292
 14,915,162 
ANALYSIS OF CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Favourable balances
Short term investments (less than 3 months)
33
 102,509,349 
 25,455,751 
 83,462,593 
 14,619,572 
Cash in hand and at bank
 52,376,531 
 19,432,579 
 27,362,010 
 305,373 
Unfavourable balances
Bank overdrafts
 (20,321,777)
 (11,820,179)
 (2,939,311)
 (9,783)
Total cash and cash equivalents
 134,564,103 
 33,068,151  107,885,292 
 14,915,162 
Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of financial position comprise cash at banks and in hand and short-term deposits with a maturity of three 
months or less. For the purpose of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and short-term deposits as defined above, net of 
outstanding bank overdrafts.
Figures in brackets indicate deductions.
The accounting policies and notes as set out in pages 212 to 292 form an integral part of these financial statements. 

210 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Statement of Changes in Equity
Statement of Cash Flows
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
Note
2022
2021
2022
2021
In Rs.'000s
A  Profit before working capital changes
 
Profit before tax
 27,324,493
 5,445,166 
 28,284,116
 11,367,088 
 
Adjustments for:
Finance income
17  (30,806,179)  (10,688,722)  (24,198,282)
 (4,617,329)
Dividend income
15
 - 
 - 
 (8,007,649)
 (8,346,260)
Finance costs
17
 7,034,757 
 4,669,206 
 2,966,139 
 1,244,941 
Share based payment expense
35
 204,618 
 225,007 
 61,117 
 66,035 
Change in fair value of investment property
24
 4,084,755 
 253,425 
 - 
 - 
Share of results of equity accounted investees
27.3
 (6,745,939)
 (4,158,793)
 - 
 - 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment
22.1, 22.2
 5,014,204 
 4,725,534 
 38,590 
 42,629 
Provision for impairment 
16.2
 4,886,733 
 69,660 
 506,246 
 - 
(Profit) / loss on sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
16.1, 16.2
 (62,198)
 6,005 
 (2,532)
 - 
Amortisation of right- of - use assets
23.1
 2,841,789 
 2,619,179 
 - 
 - 
Amortisation of intangible assets
25.1
 703,906 
 641,563 
 33,324 
 30,631 
Employee benefit provision and related costs
 584,154 
 651,409 
 64,565 
 65,752 
Unrealised (gain) / loss on foreign exchange (net)
 3,781,091 
 11,823 
 - 
 - 
 18,846,184 
 4,470,462 
 (254,366)
 (146,513)
COMPANY
In Rs.'000s
Stated
capital
Other
capital
reserve
 Cash flow 
 hedge 
 reserve
 Fair value reserve
of financial assets
at FVOCI*
Revenue
reserve
Total
equity
As at 1 April 2020
 62,881,295 
 2,700,147 
-
 24,797 
 59,631,436 
 125,237,675 
Profit for the year
-
-
-
-
 10,565,887 
 10,565,887 
Other comprehensive income
 - 
 - 
 729,316 
 3,297 
 (2,135)
 730,478 
Total comprehensive income
 - 
 - 
 729,316 
 3,297 
 10,563,752 
 11,296,365 
Exercise of share options
 158,978 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 158,978 
Share based payments
 61,388 
 163,619 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 225,007 
Interim dividends paid - 2020/21
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (1,978,317)
 (1,978,317)
As at 31 March 2021
 63,101,661 
 2,863,766 
 729,316 
 28,094 
 68,216,871 
 134,939,708 
Profit for the year
-
-
-
-
 24,381,407 
 24,381,407 
Other comprehensive income
 - 
 - 
 2,199,499 
 (6,923)
 (3,810)
 2,188,766 
Total comprehensive income
 - 
 - 
 2,199,499 
 (6,923)
 24,377,597 
 26,570,173 
Private placement of ordinary shares
 10,048,991 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 10,048,991 
Exercise of share options
 28,920 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 28,920 
Share based payments
 8,289 
 196,329 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 204,618 
Final dividend paid - 2020/21
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (659,869)
 (659,869)
Interim dividends paid - 2021/22
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (1,352,323)
 (1,352,323)
As at 31 March 2022 
 73,187,861 
 3,060,095 
 2,928,815 
 21,171 
 90,582,276 
 169,780,218 
* Fair value through other comprehensive income. 
Figures in brackets indicate deductions. 
The accounting policies and notes as set out in pages 212 to 292 form an integral part of these financial statements.

211
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance       Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
Statement of Changes in Equity
Attributable to equity holders of the parent
GROUP
In Rs.‘000s
Stated
capital 
Restricted 
regulatory
reserve
Revaluation
reserve
Foreign
currency
translation
reserve
 Cash flow 
 hedge 
 reserve 
Other
capital
reserve
 Fair value 
reserve
of financial 
assets
at FVOCI*
 Revenue 
 reserve
Total
Non
controlling
interests
Total
equity
As at 1 April 2020
 62,881,295 
 3,564,742  37,578,451  21,655,664 
 (508,480)
 2,700,147 
 1,094,830  87,885,071  216,851,720  26,872,142  243,723,862 
Profit for the year
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
 4,772,100 
 4,772,100 
 (821,209)
 3,950,891 
Other comprehensive income
-
-
 199,092 
 4,768,460 
 857,504 
-
267,249
 (103,414)
5,988,891 
 351,117 
 6,340,008 
Total comprehensive income
 - 
 - 
 199,092 
 4,768,460 
 857,504 
 - 
267,249 
 4,668,686 
 10,760,991 
(470,092)
 10,290,899 
Transfer to restricted regulatory reserve
-
 61,862 
-
-
-
-
-
 (61,862)
 - 
-
-
Exercise of share options
 158,978 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
 158,978 
-
 158,978 
Share based payments
 61,388 
-
-
-
-
 163,619 
-
-
 225,007 
-
 225,007 
Interim dividends paid - 2020/21
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
 (1,978,317)
 (1,978,317)
-
 (1,978,317)
Subsidiary dividend to non-controlling 
interest
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
 137,268 
 137,268 
 (580,297)
 (443,029)
Acquisition, disposal and changes in  
non-controlling interest
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
1,084
1,084
 (8,991,655)
 (8,990,571)
As at 31 March 2021
 63,101,661 
 3,626,604  37,777,543  26,424,124 
 349,024 
 2,863,766 
1,362,079 
90,651,930
226,156,731
16,830,098  242,986,829 
Profit for the year
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
 20,212,968 
 20,212,968 
 229,939 
 20,442,907 
Other comprehensive income
-
-
 3,318,359 
 52,761,465 
 2,579,791 
 - 
 (2,164,322)
 24,695 
56,519,988 
2,280,809 
 58,800,797 
Total comprehensive income
 - 
 - 
 3,318,359 
 52,761,465 
 2,579,791 
 - 
 (2,164,322)
 20,237,663 
 76,732,956 
 2,510,748 
 79,243,704 
Transfer from Revaluation Reserves to 
Retained Earnings
-
-
 (83,349)
-
-
-
-
 83,349 
 - 
-
 - 
Private placement of ordinary shares 
 10,048,991 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
 10,048,991 
-
 10,048,991 
Exercise of share options
 28,920 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
 28,920 
-
 28,920 
Share based payments
 8,289 
-
-
-
-
 196,329 
-
-
 204,618 
-
 204,618 
Final dividend paid - 2020/21
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
 (659,869)
 (659,869)
-
 (659,869)
Interim dividends paid - 2021/22
-
-
- 
 -
-
-
-
 (1,352,323)
 (1,352,323)
-
 (1,352,323)
Subsidiary dividend to non-controlling 
interest
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
 126,413 
 126,413 
 (535,810)
 (409,397)
As at 31 March 2022
 73,187,861 
 3,626,604  41,012,553  79,185,589 
2,928,815 
 3,060,095 
 (802,243) 109,087,163  311,286,437  18,805,036  330,091,473 
* Fair value through other comprehensive income.
Figures in brackets indicate deductions.
 The accounting policies and notes as set out in pages 212 to 292 form an integral part of these financial statements. 

212 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Notes to the Financial Statements
CORPORATE AND GROUP INFORMATION 
1.  
Corporate information 
Reporting entity
John Keells Holdings PLC is a public limited liability Company 
incorporated and domiciled in Sri Lanka. The registered office and 
principal place of business of the Company is located at 117, Sir 
Chittampalam A Gardiner Mawatha, Colombo 2.
Ordinary shares of the Company are listed on the Colombo Stock 
Exchange. Global depository receipts (GDRs) of John Keells Holdings PLC 
are listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange.
John Keells Holdings PLC became the holding Company of the Group 
during the financial year ended 31 March 1986.
Consolidated financial statements
The financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 comprise 
“the Company” referring to John Keells Holdings PLC as the holding 
Company and “the Group” referring to the companies that have been 
consolidated therein. 
Approval of financial statements
The financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 were 
authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 23 May 2022.
Principal activities and nature of operations of the holding 
Company
John Keells Holdings PLC, the Group’s holding Company, manages 
a portfolio of investments consisting of a range of diverse business 
operations, which together constitute the John Keells Group, and 
provides function based services to its subsidiaries, jointly controlled 
entities and associates.
Responsibility for financial statements
The responsibility of the Board of Directors in relation to the financial 
statements is set out in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibility report 
in the Annual report.
Statements of compliance
The financial statements which comprise the income statement, 
statement of comprehensive income, statement of financial position, 
statement of changes in equity and the statement of cash flows, 
together with the accounting policies and notes (the “financial 
statements”) have been prepared in accordance with Sri Lanka 
Accounting Standards (SLFRS/ LKAS) as issued by the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka) and in compliance 
with the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007.
2.  
Group information 
Subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures
The companies within the Group and its business activities are described 
in the Group Directory under the Supplementary Information section of 
the Annual Report.
There were no significant changes in the nature of the principal activities 
of the Company and the Group during the financial year under review.
BASIS OF PREPARATION AND OTHER SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING 
POLICIES
3.  
Basis of preparation 
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on an accrual 
basis and under the historical cost convention except for investment 
properties, land and buildings, derivative financial instruments, fair 
value through profit or loss financial assets and financial instruments 
measured at fair value through other comprehensive income that have 
been measured at fair value.
Going Concern
The Group has prepared the financial statements for the year ended 
31 March 2022 on the basis that it will continue to operate as a going 
concern. In determining the basis of preparing the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2022, based on available information, the 
management has assessed the prevailing macroeconomic conditions 
and its effect on the Group companies and the appropriateness of the 
use of the going concern basis. 
It is the view of the management that there are no material uncertainties 
that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue to 
operate as a going concern. The Group’s businesses recorded strong 
improvement in profitability compared to the previous year on the back 
of a fast recovery momentum with most of the businesses reaching 
pre COVID-19 levels of operations post the easing of restrictions. 
The management has formed judgment that the Company, its 
subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures have adequate resources 
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future driven 
by the continuous operationalisation of risk mitigation initiatives and 
monitoring of business continuity and response plans at each business 
unit level along with the financial strength of the Group. 
In determining the above significant management judgements, 
estimates and assumptions, the impact of the macroeconomic 
uncertainties, including supply chain disruptions, power interruptions 
and distribution challenges on account of the prevailing foreign 
exchange market limitations, and the COVID-19 pandemic have been 
considered as of the reporting date and specific considerations have 
been disclosed under the notes, as relevant.
Offsetting
Assets and liabilities or income and expenses, are not offset unless 
required or permitted by Sri Lanka Accounting Standards.
Presentation of functional currency
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sri Lankan 
Rupees (Rs), which is the primary economic environment in which the 
holding Company operates. Each entity in the Group uses the currency 
of the primary economic environment in which they operate as their 
functional currency. 
The following subsidiaries are using different functional currencies other 
than Sri Lankan Rupees (Rs):

213
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance       Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
Country of 
incorporation
Functional 
Currency
Name of the Subsidiary 
Singapore
Singapore 
Dollar (SGD)
John Keells Singapore (Pte) Ltd
Republic of 
Maldives
United States 
Dollar (USD)
Fantasea World Investments (Pte) Ltd
John Keells Maldivian Resort (Pte) Ltd
Mack Air Services Maldives (Pte) Ltd
Tranquility (Pte) Ltd
Travel Club (Pte) Ltd
Mauritius
United States 
Dollar (USD)
John Keells BPO Holdings (Pvt) Ltd
John Keells BPO International (Pvt) 
Ltd
Sri Lanka
United States 
Dollar (USD)
Waterfront Properties (Pvt) Ltd
Each material class of similar items is presented cumulatively in the 
Financial Statements. Items of dissimilar nature or function are presented 
separately unless they are immaterial as permitted by the Sri Lanka 
Accounting Standard-LKAS 1 on ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’.
All values are rounded to the nearest rupees thousand (Rs.’000) except 
when otherwise indicated.
The significant accounting policies are discussed with relevant individual 
notes.
The indicative US Dollar financial statements under Supplementary 
Information section of the Annual Report do not form a part of the 
financial statements prepared in accordance with SLFRS/LKAS. 
Comparative information
The presentation and classification of the financial statements of the 
previous years have been amended, where relevant including the 
following for better presentation and to be comparable with those of 
the current year.
4.  
Summary of significant accounting policies 
Summary of significant accounting policies have been disclosed along 
with the relevant individual notes in the subsequent pages.
Those accounting policies presented with each note, have been applied 
consistently by the Group.
Other significant accounting policies not disclosed with 
individual notes
Following accounting policies, which have been applied consistently by 
the Group, are considered to be significant but not covered in any other 
sections.
Current versus non-current classification 
The Group presents assets and liabilities in statement of financial 
position based on current/non-current classification. An asset as current 
when it is:
•  Expected to be realised or intended to be sold or consumed in normal 
operating cycle
•  Held primarily for the purpose of trading
•  Expected to be realised within twelve months after the reporting 
period, or
•  Cash or cash equivalent unless restricted from being exchanged or 
used to settle a liability for at least twelve months after the reporting 
period
All other assets are classified as non-current.
A liability is current when:
•  It is expected to be settled in normal operating cycle
•  It is held primarily for the purpose of trading 
•  It is due to be settled within twelve months after the reporting period
•  There is no unconditional right to defer the settlement of the liability 
for at least twelve months after the reporting period
The Group classifies all other liabilities as non-current. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as non-current assets and 
liabilities. 
Foreign currency translation, foreign currency  
transactions and balances
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sri Lanka Rupees 
(Rs), which is the Company’s functional and presentation currency. 
The functional currency is the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the entities of the Group operate. All foreign 
exchange transactions are converted to functional currency, at the 
rates of exchange prevailing at the time the transactions are effected. 
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currency are 
retranslated to functional currency equivalents at the spot exchange rate 
prevailing at the reporting date. 
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in 
a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the 
dates of the initial transactions. Non monetary assets and liabilities are 
translated using exchange rates that existed when the values were 
determined. The gain or loss arising on translation of non-monetary 
items is treated in line with the recognition of gain or loss on changing 
fair value of the item. 
Foreign operations
The statement of financial position and income statement of overseas 
subsidiaries and joint ventures which are deemed to be foreign 
operations are translated to Sri Lanka rupees at the rate of exchange 
prevailing as at the reporting date and at the average annual rate of 
exchange for the period respectively.
The exchange differences arising on the translation are taken directly 
to other comprehensive income. On disposal of a foreign entity, the 
deferred cumulative amount recognised in other comprehensive 
income relating to that particular foreign operation is recognised in the 
income statement.
The Group treated goodwill and any fair value adjustments to the 
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities arising on the acquisition as 
assets and liabilities of the parent. Therefore, those assets and liabilities 
are non-monetary items already expressed in the functional currency of 
the parent and no further translation differences occur.

214 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Notes to the Financial Statements
5.  
Significant accounting judgements, estimates and 
assumptions 
The preparation of the financial statements of the Group require the 
management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions, which 
may affect the amounts of income, expenditure, assets, liabilities and the 
disclosure of contingent liabilities, at the end of the reporting period.
Uncertainty about these assumptions and estimates could result in 
outcomes that require a material adjustment to the carrying amount of 
assets or liabilities affected in future periods. In the process of applying 
the Group’s accounting policies, management has made various 
judgements. Those which management has assessed to have the 
most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the consolidated 
financial statements have been discussed in the individual notes of the 
related financial statement line items.
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of 
estimation uncertainty at the reporting date, that have a significant 
risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets 
and liabilities within the next financial year, are also described in the 
individual notes to the financial statements. The Group based its 
assumptions and estimates on parameters available when the financial 
statements were prepared. Existing circumstances and assumptions 
about future developments, however, may change due to market 
changes or circumstances arising that are beyond the control of the 
Group. Such changes are reflected in the assumptions when they occur.
The items which have most significant effect on accounting, 
judgements, estimate and assumptions are as follows;
a) Going concern basis
b) Valuation of property, plant and equipment and investment property
c) Impairment of non-financial assets
d) Share based payments
e) Taxes
f) Employee benefit liability
g) Valuation of insurance contract liabilities
h) Provision for expected credit losses of trade receivables and contract 
assets
i) Leases 
The Group performed impairment testing for non-current assets with 
the indicators of impairment in accordance with the accounting policies 
stated in Note 22 Property, Plant and equipment, Note 23 Right of use 
assets, Note 24 Investment property and Note 25 Intangible assets. 
An impairment loss is recognized for the amount by which the asset’s 
carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable 
amounts of cash generating units are the higher of asset’s fair value less 
costs of disposals and value in use. These calculations require the use of 
estimates, assumptions and judgements. The discount rate used is the 
risk free rate, adjusted by the addition of an appropriate risk premium.
The Group assesses the fair value of its property, plant and equipment 
and investment property based on valuations determined by 
independent qualified valuers’ best estimate based on the market 
conditions that prevailed, which in the valuers’ considered opinion, 
meets the requirements in SLFRS-13 Fair Value Measurement.
6.  
Changes in accounting standards 
The Group applied for the first-time certain standards and amendments, 
which are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 
2021.
Amendments to SLFRS 16 Covid-19 Related Rent Concessions beyond 
30 June 2021. 
The amendments provide relief to lessees from applying SLFRS 16 
guidance on lease modification accounting for rent concessions arising 
as a direct consequence of the Covid-19 pandemic. As a practical 
expedient, a lessee may elect not to assess whether a Covid-19 related 
rent concession from a lessor is a lease modification. 
A lessee that makes this election accounts for any change in lease 
payments resulting from the Covid-19 related rent concession the same 
way it would account for the change under SLFRS 16, if the change were 
not a lease modification. The Group has applied practical expedient for 
Covid-19 related rent concessions which have been extended up to 
June 2022. 
The following amendments and improvements do not expect to have a 
significant impact on the Group's financial statements. 
 -  Amendments to SLFRS 9, LKAS 39, SLFRS 7, SLFRS 4 and SLFRS 16 : 
Interest Rate Benchmark Reform - Phase 2. 
7. 
 Standards issued but not yet effective
SLFRS 17 - Insurance Contracts
As recommended by the Accounting Standards Committee, the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka has decided to adopt SLFRS 
17 Insurance Contracts with effective from annual reporting periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2023. However based on available 
information effective date is expected to extend from annual reporting 
period beginning on or after 1 January 2023
Early adoption is permitted if the regulator permits along with the 
adoption of SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments and SLFRS 15 Revenue from 
Contracts with Customers. SLFRS 17 supersedes SLFRS 4 Insurance 
Contracts. Union Assurance PLC (the company), a subsidiary company of 
the Group intends to adopt the new standard on its mandatory effective 
date, alongside the adoption of SLFRS 9.
SLFRS 4 permitted insurers to continue to use the statutory basis of 
accounting for insurance assets and liabilities that existed in their 
jurisdictions prior to January 2005. SLFRS 17 replaces this with a new 
measurement model for all insurance contracts.
SLFRS 17 requires liabilities for insurance contracts to be recognised 
as the present value of future cash flows, incorporating an explicit risk 
adjustment, which is updated at each reporting date to reflect current 
conditions, and a Contractual Service Margin (CSM) that is equal and 
opposite to any day-one gain arising on initial recognition. Losses 
are recognised directly into the income statement. For measurement 
purposes, contracts are grouped together into contracts of similar risk, 
profitability profile and issue year, with further divisions for contracts that 
are managed separately.

215
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance       Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
Profit for insurance contracts under SLFRS 17 is represented by the 
recognition of the services provided to policyholders in the period 
(release of the CSM), release from non-economic risk (release of risk 
adjustment) and investment profit.
The CSM is released as profit over the coverage period of the insurance 
contract, reflecting the delivery of services to the policyholder. For 
certain contracts with participating features (where a substantial share 
of the fair value of the related investments and other underlying items 
is paid to policyholders) such as the company’s with-profits products, 
the CSM reflects the variable fee to shareholders. For these contracts, 
the CSM is adjusted to reflect the changes in economic experience and 
assumptions. For all other contracts the CSM is only adjusted for non-
economic assumptions.
SLFRS 17 introduces a new measure of insurance revenue, based on 
the delivery of services to policyholders and excluding any premiums 
related to the investment elements of policies, which will be significantly 
different from existing premium revenue measures, currently reported 
in the income statement. In order to transition to SLFRS 17, the amount 
of deferred profit, being the CSM at transition date, needs to be 
determined.
SLFRS 17 requires this CSM to be calculated as if the standard had 
applied retrospectively. However if this is not practical an entity is 
required to choose either a simplified retrospective approach or to 
determine the CSM by reference to the fair value of the liabilities at 
the transition date. The approach for determining the CSM will have a 
significant impact on both shareholders’ equity and on the amount of 
profits on in-force business in future reporting periods.
SLFRS 17 Implementation Programme - Union Assurance PLC
SLFRS 17 is expected to have a significant impact as the requirements 
of the new standard are complex and requires a fundamental change 
to accounting for insurance contracts as well as the application of 
significant judgement and new estimation techniques. The effect of 
changes required to the company’s accounting policies as a result 
of implementing these standards are currently uncertain, but these 
changes can be expected to, among other things, alter the timing of 
SLFRS profit recognition. Given the implementation of this standard is 
likely to involve significant enhancements to IT, actuarial and finance 
systems of the company, it will also have an impact on the company’s 
expenses.
The company has an implementation programme underway to 
implement SLFRS 17 and SLFRS 9. The programme is responsible for 
setting accounting policies and developing application methodologies, 
establishing appropriate processes and controls, sourcing appropriate 
data and implementing actuarial and finance system changes. 
However based on available information effective date is expected to 
extend from annual reporting period beginning on or after 1 January 
2023
The company is on track to providing SLFRS 17 financial statements in 
line with the requirements when it becomes effective.
The following amendments and improvements are not expected to have 
a significant impact on the Group’s financial statements. 
 Amendments to SLFRS 3: Reference to the Conceptual Framework.
 Amendments to LKAS 16 : Property, Plant & Equipment - Proceeds 
before Intended Use.
 Amendments to LKAS 37 : Onerous Contracts - Cost of Fulfilling a 
Contract. 
GROUP BUSINESS, OPERATIONS AND MANAGEMENT 
8. 
Operating segment information 
Accounting policy 
The Group’s internal organisation and management is structured 
based on individual products and services which are similar in nature 
and process and where the risks and returns are similar. The operating 
segments represent this business structure. 
In addition, segments are determined based on the Group’s 
geographical spread of operations as well. The geographical analysis 
of turnover and profits are based on location of customers and assets 
respectively. 
The activities of each of the operating business segments of the Group 
are detailed in the Group directory in the Supplementary section of the 
Annual report.
The Group has now organised its business units into seven reportable 
operating segments based on their products and services as follows: 
Transportation
This operating segment provides an array of transportation related 
services, which comprise of a container terminal in the Port of Colombo, 
a marine bunkering business, domestic airline, joint venture/associations 
with leading shipping, logistics and air transportation multinationals as 
well as travel and airlines services in Sri Lanka and the Maldives.
Consumer Foods
Consumer foods segment focuses on manufacturing of a wide 
range of soft drinks, dairy products, ice creams and processed foods 
which competes in three major categories namely beverages, frozen 
confectionery and convenience foods.
Retail
Retail segment focuses on modern organised retailing through a chain 
of supermarkets and distribution of printers, copiers, smart phones and 
other office automation equipment.
Leisure
The leisure segment comprises of five-star city hotels, a lean luxury hotel, 
resort hotels spread across prime tourist locations in Sri Lanka, as well as 
destination management business in Sri Lanka.
Property
Property segment concentrates primarily on property development, 
renting of commercial office spaces,selling condomoniums and 
management of the Group’s real estate.

216 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Notes to the Financial Statements
8.1  
Business segments
Transportation
Consumer Foods
Retail
For the year ended 31 March
In Rs.‘000s
2022
2021
2022
2021
2022
2021
Disaggregation of revenue - Timing of revenue recognition
Goods transferred at a point in time 
 30,188,848 
 16,198,223 
 22,789,929 
17,003,814
 90,873,520 
 70,314,670 
Services transferred over time
 2,361,113 
 2,204,952 
 - 
-
 182,414 
 84,997 
Total segment revenue
 32,549,961 
 18,403,175 
 22,789,929 
17,003,814
 91,055,934 
 70,399,667 
Elimination of inter segment revenue
External revenue
Segment results
 (2,628,478)
 863,752 
 2,451,687
 2,450,905 
 1,551,585
 3,382,058 
Finance cost
 (168,402)
 (78,043)
 (180,182)
 (150,881)
 (1,872,457)
 (1,679,343)
Finance income
 132,359 
 134,793 
 36,885 
 41,725 
 331,717 
 110,156 
Change in fair value of investment property
 - 
-
 16,955 
 3,873 
 - 
-
Share of results of equity accounted investees 
 3,679,087 
 2,422,382 
 - 
-
 - 
-
Eliminations / adjustments
 128 
-
 21,540 
 (48,636)
 (4,127)
 4,738 
Profit / (loss) before tax
 1,014,694
 3,342,884 
 2,346,885
 2,296,986 
 6,718
 1,817,609 
Tax expense
 (282,038)
 (96,633)
 (422,136)
 (140,723)
 (871,971)
 (248,762)
Profit/ (loss) for the year
 732,656
 3,246,251
 1,924,749
 2,156,263
 (865,253)
 1,568,847
 Purchase and construction of PPE* 
 283,326 
 100,490 
 1,147,426 
 626,423 
 4,144,698 
 2,712,459 
 Addition to IA* 
 2,940 
 500 
 251,419 
 210,597 
 782,860 
 1,167,094 
 Depreciation of PPE* 
 200,571 
 202,331 
 940,403 
 852,524 
 1,339,574 
 1,180,975 
 Amortisation of IA* 
 1,866 
 1,517 
 37,914 
 3,681 
 261,579 
 138,900 
 Amortisation of ROU* 
 58,210 
 59,858 
 6,964 
 6,222 
 1,020,120 
 915,755 
 Employee benefit provision and related costs 
 24,365 
 29,276 
 113,509 
 118,387 
 95,776 
 90,868 
In addition to segment results, information such as finance costs / income, tax expenses has been allocated to segments for better presentation.
* PPE - Property, plant and equipment, IA - Intangible assets, ROU - Right-of-use assets
Financial Services
The segment engages in a broad range of financial services including 
insurance, commercial banking, debt trading, fund management, leasing 
and stock broking. 
Others
This reportable segment represents companies in the plantation 
industry, Information technology, management and holding Company 
of the Group as well as several ancillary companies.
Segment information has been prepared in conformity with the 
accounting policies adopted for preparing and presenting the 
consolidated financial statements of the Group.
8. 
Operating segment information (Contd.)
No operating segments have been aggregated to form the above 
reportable operating segments. An individual segment manager is 
determined for each operating segment and the results are regularly 
reviewed by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors monitors 
the operating results of its business units separately for the purpose 
of making decisions about resource allocation and performance 
assessment. Segment performance is evaluated based on operating 
profit or loss which in certain respects, as explained in the operating 
segments’ information, is measured differently from operating profit 
or loss in the consolidated financial statements. However, except the 
Financial Services segment, other segments’ financing activities are 
managed on a group basis and are not allocated to operating segments. 
Pricing between operating segments comply with the arm’s length 
principals relating to transfer pricing in the ordinary course of business.

217
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance       Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
Leisure
Property
Financial Services
Others
Group Total
2022
2021
2022
2021
2022
2021
2022
2021
2022
2021
 - 
 - 
 35,220,257 
 228,757 
 - 
-
 2,018,797 
 2,346,224 
 181,091,351 
 106,091,688 
 18,914,184 
 5,411,731 
 763,173 
 578,193 
 15,685,926 
 13,601,023 
 4,125,135 
 3,968,823 
 42,031,945 
 25,849,719 
 18,914,184 
 5,411,731 
 35,983,430 
 806,950 
 15,685,926 
 13,601,023 
 6,143,932 
 6,315,047 
 223,123,296 
 131,941,407 
 (5,048,550)
 (4,265,757)
 218,074,746 
127,675,650 
 65,158
 (7,555,464)
 2,683,512
 40,590 
 2,867,497
 1,773,064 
 (791,245)
 (131,794)
 6,199,716 
 823,111 
 (1,354,402)
 (1,192,991)
 (138,747)
 (16,800)
 (323,352)
 (274,019)
 (2,997,215)
 (1,277,129)
 (7,034,757)
 (4,669,206)
 109,286 
 170,104 
 107,339 
 64,656 
 173,059 
 153,351 
 24,310,553 
 4,716,984 
 25,201,198 
 5,391,769 
 104,950 
 16,250 
 (4,287,974)
 (291,262)
 - 
 - 
 81,314 
 17,714 
 (4,084,755)
 (253,425)
 (35,391)
 (70,829)
 824,630 
 99,417 
 2,277,613 
 1,707,823 
 - 
-
6,745,939 
 4,158,793 
 (170,750)
 105,995 
 (35,829)
 (33,046)
 - 
 - 
 486,190 
(34,927)
 297,152 
 (5,876)
 (1,281,149)
 (8,526,935)
 (847,069)
 (136,445)
 4,994,817
 3,360,219 
 21,089,597
3,290,848
 27,324,493
5,445,166 
 (21,031)
 929,329
 (139,140)
 (139,428)
 (680,777)
 (863,062)
 (4,464,493)
 (934,996)
 (6,881,586)
 (1,494,275)
 (1,302,180)
 (7,597,606)
 (986,209)
 (275,873)
 4,314,040
 2,497,157
 16,625,104
 2,355,852 
 20,442,907
 3,950,891 
 639,952 
 1,708,144 
 114,410 
 91,219 
 183,620 
 56,395 
 113,344 
 71,889 
 6,626,776 
 5,367,019 
 11,415 
 20,452 
 - 
 - 
 244,721 
 733,987 
66,822
54,670
1,360,177
2,187,300
 2,230,149 
 2,206,781 
 57,419 
 45,867 
 99,540 
 84,148 
 146,548 
 152,908 
 5,014,204 
 4,725,534 
 71,774 
 67,735 
 6,601 
 6,658 
 274,115 
 383,053 
 50,057 
 40,019 
 703,906 
 641,563 
 1,633,812 
 1,489,624 
 21,427 
 22,582 
 100,078 
 125,049 
 1,178 
 89 
 2,841,789 
 2,619,179 
 140,792 
 199,193 
 14,221 
 7,091 
 63,377 
 67,914 
 132,114 
 138,680 
 584,154 
 651,409 

218 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Notes to the Financial Statements
8. 
Operating segment information (Contd.)
8.2. 
Business segments
The following table presents segment assets and liabilities of the Group’s business segments. 
Transportation
Consumer Foods
Retail
As at 
In Rs.‘000s
 31.03.2022 
 31.03.2021  31.03.2022 
 31.03.2021 
 31.03.2022 
 31.03.2021 
 Property, plant and equipment 
 967,241 
 955,742 
 10,112,354 
 9,729,769 
 17,153,312 
 14,343,328 
 Right-of-use-assets 
 103,319 
 161,528 
 274,048 
 232,942 
 9,838,314 
 9,361,332 
 Investment property 
 - 
 - 
 317,250 
 300,295 
 - 
 - 
 Intangible assets 
 73,593 
 7,949 
 683,547 
 464,637 
 2,274,943 
 1,606,164 
 Non-current financial assets 
 126,064 
 153,107 
 210,412 
 177,598 
 161,887 
 157,731 
 Other non-current assets 
 11,193 
 14,867 
 34,550 
 58,377 
 972,291 
 1,015,907 
 Segment non-current assets 
 1,281,410 
 1,293,193 
 11,632,161 
 10,963,618 
 30,400,747 
 26,484,462 
 Investments in equity accounted investees 
 15,050,879
 12,208,454 
-
 - 
-
 - 
 Deferred tax assets 
 Goodwill 
 Eliminations / adjustments 
 Total non-current assets 
 Inventories 
 4,597,542 
 333,102 
 3,729,059 
 2,252,476 
 8,020,175 
 7,276,679 
 Trade and other receivables 
 5,699,913 
 1,925,320 
 3,940,217 
 3,167,757 
 2,877,516 
 2,990,445 
 Short term investments 
 5,619,503 
 100,369 
 758 
 514 
 3,181,909 
 3,753,429 
 Cash in hand and at bank 
 4,931,536 
 3,697,218 
 615,102 
 200,993 
 5,273,668 
 2,716,348 
 Segment current assets 
 20,848,494 
 6,056,009 
 8,285,136 
 5,621,740 
 19,353,268 
 16,736,901 
 Other current assets 
 Eliminations / adjustments 
 Total current assets 
 Total assets 
 Insurance contract liabilities 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 
 7,333 
 31,889 
 358,647 
 627,335 
 7,991,304 
 4,600,000 
 Lease liabilities 
 109,010 
 163,747 
 152,328 
 102,340 
 9,786,865 
 8,756,050 
 Employee benefit liabilities 
 105,801 
 112,944 
 707,380 
 659,432 
 418,092 
 339,146 
 Non-current financial liabilities 
-
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Other non-current liabilities 
-
 - 
 96,183 
 101,054 
 - 
 - 
 Segment non-current liabilities 
 222,144 
 308,580 
 1,314,538 
 1,490,161 
 18,196,261 
 13,695,196 
 Deferred tax liabilities 
 Eliminations / adjustments 
 Total non-current liabilities 
 Trade and other payables 
 5,700,540 
 1,191,007 
 4,321,046 
 2,577,616 
 21,981,118 
 16,513,758 
 Short term borrowings 
 10,838,491 
 3,192,886 
 - 
 - 
 2,000,000 
 4,248,003 
 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 
 10,000 
 13,111 
 634,042 
 543,455 
 1,588,696 
 1,200,000 
 Lease liabilities
-
 - 
 1,396 
 1,110 
 476,996 
 337,921 
 Other current financial liabilities 
-
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Bank overdrafts 
 1,905,340 
 506,826 
 2,121,675 
 1,375,024 
 3,773,544 
 4,188,582 
 Segment current liabilities 
 18,454,371 
 4,903,830 
 7,078,159 
 4,497,205 
 29,820,354 
 26,488,264 
 Income tax liabilities 
 Other current liabilities 
 Eliminations / adjustments 
 Total current liabilities 
 Total liabilities 
 Total segment assets 
 22,129,904 
 7,349,202 
 19,917,297 
 16,585,358 
 49,754,015 
 43,221,363 
 Total segment liabilities 
 18,676,515 
 5,212,410 
 8,392,697 
 5,987,366 
 48,016,615 
 40,183,460 
Inter company investments made by the Group of companies have not been considered for the calculation of segment assets.

219
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance       Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
Leisure
Property
Financial Services
Others
Group Total
 31.03.2022 
 31.03.2021 
 31.03.2022 
 31.03.2021 
 31.03.2022 
 31.03.2021 
 31.03.2022 
 31.03.2021 
 31.03.2022 
 31.03.2021 
 63,491,916 
 57,793,645 
 4,991,754 
 4,802,630 
 2,738,220 
 2,463,891 
 1,313,218 
 1,362,978 
 100,768,015 
 91,451,983 
 41,403,024 
 29,163,573 
 216,807 
 220,666 
 454,179 
 298,767 
 34,800 
 35,978 
 52,324,491 
 39,474,786 
 4,701,632 
 4,429,456 
 47,032,217 
29,891,114
-
 - 
 2,421,012 
 2,125,423 
 54,472,111 
36,746,288
 200,488 
 260,848 
 667 
 834 
 1,480,614 
 1,807,054 
 204,944 
 194,592 
 4,918,796 
 4,342,078 
 10,435,965 
 7,021,227 
 82,148 
 43,951 
 44,176,904 
 43,570,046 
 3,424,868 
 17,998,486 
 58,618,248 
 69,122,146 
 20,304 
 24,891 
 180,224,953 
103,803,090
 70,053 
 91,000 
 141,949 
 114,461 
 181,475,293 
105,122,593
 120,253,329 
 98,693,640 
 232,548,546 
 138,762,285 
 48,919,970 
 48,230,758 
 7,540,791 
 21,831,918 
 452,576,954 
 346,259,874 
 1,391,744
 1,430,014 
 2,807,341
 1,982,710 
 14,615,592
13,008,758
-
 - 
 33,865,556 
 28,629,936 
 1,554,438 
 1,089,027 
 730,901 
 738,596 
 (9,861,321)
 (6,414,396)
 478,866,528 
 370,303,037 
 624,324 
 362,738 
 19,052,049 
 43,872,141 
 9,441 
 14,843 
 244,438 
 255,930 
 36,277,028 
 54,367,909 
 4,572,062 
 879,635 
 7,796,348 
 221,386 
 2,184,085 
 7,623,070 
 2,645,024 
 3,147,434 
 29,715,165 
 19,955,047 
 3,521,626 
 2,764,348 
 116,870 
 286,992 
 17,037,398 
 13,457,845 
 84,710,109 
 52,254,596 
 114,188,173 
 72,618,093 
 2,561,453 
 1,469,552 
 7,137,753 
 7,925,556 
 1,084,499 
 887,497 
 30,735,857 
 2,458,360 
 52,339,868 
 19,355,524 
 11,279,465 
 5,476,273 
 34,103,020 
 52,306,075 
 20,315,423 
 21,983,255 
 118,335,428 
 58,116,320 
 232,520,234 
 166,296,573 
 11,914,461 
 5,919,453 
 (5,505,530)
 (5,724,859)
 238,929,165 
 166,491,167 
 717,795,693 
 536,794,204 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 51,349,323 
 45,160,611 
 - 
 - 
 51,349,323 
 45,160,611 
 26,799,374 
 20,137,034 
 69,018,341 
 55,878,945 
 - 
 - 
 64,650,033 
 44,198,156 
 168,825,032 
 125,473,359 
 19,659,970 
 14,983,915 
 462 
 462 
 312,659 
 182,797 
 - 
 - 
 30,021,294 
 24,189,311 
 927,287 
 894,015 
 38,187 
 23,427 
 279,515 
 247,261 
 630,355 
 537,781 
 3,106,617 
 2,814,006 
 - 
 - 
2,413,880
 3,660,951 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
2,413,880
 3,660,951 
 124,244 
 111,839 
 - 
 19,332,966 
 - 
 - 
 447 
 467 
 220,874 
 19,546,326 
 47,510,875 
 36,126,803 
71,470,870
 78,896,751 
 51,941,497 
 45,590,669 
 65,280,835 
 44,736,404 
255,937,020
 220,844,564 
 12,016,404 
 7,720,111 
(9,858,147)
 (6,462,732)
 258,095,277 
 222,101,943 
 4,061,764 
 2,523,654 
 2,820,379 
 1,739,109 
 4,616,409 
 11,690,755 
 2,227,717 
 1,596,742 
 45,728,973 
 37,832,641 
 3,466,629 
 2,770,345 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2,016,044 
 22,074 
 18,321,164 
 10,233,308 
 4,361,702 
 1,556,407 
 31,467,019 
 3,173,799 
 - 
 - 
 2,562,994 
 3,020,702 
 40,624,453 
 9,507,474 
 2,947,896 
 1,131,749 
 - 
 - 
 131,917 
 114,858 
 - 
 - 
 3,558,205 
 1,585,638 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2,991,093 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2,991,093 
 7,364,353 
 4,905,726 
 1,758,998 
 421,127 
 160,879 
 143,295 
 3,308,983 
 351,598 
 20,393,772 
 11,892,178 
 22,202,344 
 12,887,881 
 36,046,396 
 8,325,128 
 4,909,205 
 11,948,908 
 10,115,738 
 4,991,116 
 128,626,567 
 74,042,332 
 2,618,554 
1,988,170
 4,280,387 
 1,733,398 
 (5,916,565)
 (6,058,468)
 129,608,943 
71,705,432
 387,704,220
293,807,375
 131,532,794 
 104,169,913 
 266,651,566 
 191,068,360 
 69,235,393 
 70,214,013 
 125,876,219 
 79,948,238 
 685,097,188 
 512,556,447 
 69,713,219 
 49,014,684 
107,517,266
 87,221,879 
 56,850,702 
 57,539,577 
 75,396,573 
 49,727,520 
384,563,587
 294,886,896 

220 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Notes to the Financial Statements
8. 
Operating segment information (Contd.)
8.3 
 Business Segment analysis - Disaggregation of revenue - Business segment analysis 
GROUP
2022
2021
For the year ended 31 March
In Rs.‘000s
Sale of 
goods
Rendering
of services
Total
revenue
Sale of 
goods
Rendering
of services
Total
revenue
Transportation
 30,188,848 
 1,699,199 
 31,888,047 
 16,198,223 
 1,220,234 
 17,418,457 
Consumer Foods 
 21,007,883 
 - 
 21,007,883 
 16,510,040 
 - 
 16,510,040 
Retail
 90,659,816 
 182,414 
 90,842,230 
 70,143,914 
 84,742 
 70,228,656 
Leisure
 - 
 18,878,616 
 18,878,616 
 - 
 5,356,272 
 5,356,272 
Property
 35,220,257 
 511,132 
 35,731,389 
 228,757 
 383,252 
 612,009 
Financial Services
 - 
 15,685,763 
 15,685,763 
 - 
 13,601,023 
 13,601,023 
Others
 2,018,797 
 2,022,021 
 4,040,818 
 2,346,224 
 1,602,969 
 3,949,193 
Group revenue
 179,095,601 
 38,979,145 
 218,074,746 
 105,427,158 
 22,248,492 
 127,675,650 
8.4  
 Disaggregation of revenue - Geographical segment analysis (by location of customers) 
GROUP
For the year ended 31 March
In Rs.‘000s
2022
2021
Sri Lanka
170,809,324
 110,068,147 
Asia (excluding Sri Lanka)
16,513,760
 8,063,051 
Europe
19,604,217
 6,299,503 
Others
11,147,445 
 3,244,949 
Group external revenue
218,074,746
 127,675,650 
8.5  
 Geographical segments, based on the location of assets 
Sri Lanka
Asia 
(excluding Sri Lanka)
Group Total
As at/for the period ended 31 March
In Rs.‘000s
2022
2021
2022
2021
2022
2021
Group external revenue
 207,676,917 
 124,969,829 
 10,397,829 
 2,705,821 
 218,074,746 
 127,675,650 
Segment revenue
 212,676,540 
129,235,586
 10,446,756 
2,705,821 
 223,123,296 
131,941,407
Segment results
5,239,287
 3,462,853 
 960,429 
 (2,639,742)
6,199,716
 823,111 
Segment assets
623,612,925
461,374,360
 61,484,263 
 51,182,087 
685,097,188
512,556,447
Segment liabilities
330,636,732
255,946,546
 53,926,855 
38,940,350
384,563,587
294,886,896
Purchase and construction of property, plant 
and equipment
6,421,345
 4,593,497 
 205,431 
 773,522 
6,626,776
 5,367,019 
Purchase and construction of intangible assets
1,360,177
 2,187,300 
 - 
-
1,360,177
 2,187,300 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment
3,943,240
 3,719,193 
 1,070,964 
 1,006,341 
5,014,204
 4,725,534 
Amortisation of intangible assets
 703,906 
 641,563 
 - 
-
 703,906 
 641,563 
Amortisation of right- of - use assets
 1,265,845 
 1,193,160 
 1,575,944 
 1,426,019 
 2,841,789 
 2,619,179 
Employee benefit provision and related costs
 584,154 
 651,409 
 - 
-
 584,154 
 651,409 
Investments in equity accounted investees
 33,865,556 
 28,629,936
 - 
-
 33,865,556 
 28,629,936 

221
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance       Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
 9. 
 Basis of consolidation and material partly owned 
subsidiaries 
Accounting policy 
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial 
statements of the Group and its subsidiaries as at the end of reporting 
period. Control over an investee is achieved when the Group is 
exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the 
investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power 
over the investee.
Control over an investee 
Specifically, the Group controls an investee if, and only if, the Group has:
• Power over the investee (i.e., existing rights that give it the current 
ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee)
• Exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the 
investee
• The ability to use its power over the investee to affect its 
returns 
Consolidation of entities in which the Group holds less than a 
majority of voting rights 
When the Group has less than a majority of the voting or similar rights 
of an investee, the Group considers all relevant facts and circumstances 
in assessing whether it has power over an investee, including:
• The contractual arrangement with the other vote holders of the 
investee; 
• Rights arising from other contractual arrangements; and
• The Group’s voting rights and potential voting rights
Subsidiaries that are consolidated have been listed in the Group 
directory under Supplementary section of the annual report.
The following companies, with equity control equal to or less than 50%, 
have been consolidated as subsidiaries based on above criteria. 
 % Holding 
Rajawella Holdings Ltd
49.85
Mack Air Services Maldives (Pte) Ltd 
49.00
Tea Smallholder Factories PLC
37.62
The Group re-assesses whether or not it controls an investee, if facts and 
circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the 
three elements of control. Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the 
Group obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when the Group 
loses control of the subsidiary. Assets, liabilities, income and expenses of 
a subsidiary acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the 
consolidated financial statements from the date the Group gains control 
until the date the Group ceases to control the subsidiary.
Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive income 
(OCI) are attributed to the equity holders of the parent of the Group 
and to the non-controlling interests, even if this results in the non-
controlling interests having a deficit balance. The financial statements 
of the subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting period as the 
parent Company, which is 12 months ending 31 March, using consistent 
accounting policies. 
Transactions eliminated on consolidation 
All intra-group assets, liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash 
flows relating to transactions between members of the Group are 
eliminated in full on consolidation. A change in the ownership interest 
of a subsidiary, without a loss of control, is accounted for as an equity 
transaction.
Loss of control
If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it derecognises the related 
assets (including goodwill), liabilities, noncontrolling interest and other 
components of equity while any resultant gain or loss is recognised in 
the income statement. Any investment retained is recognised at fair 
value.
The total profits and losses for the year of the Company and of its 
subsidiaries included in consolidation are shown in the consolidated 
income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive 
income and all assets and liabilities of the Company and of its 
subsidiaries included in consolidation are shown in the Consolidated 
Statement of Financial Position.
Non-controlling interest (NCI) 
Non-controlling interest which represents the portion of profit or loss 
and net assets not held by the Group, are shown as a component of 
profit for the year in the consolidated income statement and statement 
of comprehensive income and as a component of equity in the 
consolidated statement of financial position, separately from equity 
attributable to the shareholders of the parent.
The Consolidated Statement of Cash Flow includes the cash flows of the 
Company and its subsidiaries.

222 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Notes to the Financial Statements
 9. 
 Basis of consolidation and material partly owned subsidiaries (Contd.)
9.1  
 Material partly-owned subsidiaries 
Financial information of subsidiaries that have material non-controlling interests (NCI) are provided below.
Leisure 
Consumer Foods
Retail
In Rs.‘000s
2022
2021
2022
2021
2022
2021
Summarised Income Statement for the period 
ending 31 March
Revenue
 18,914,184 
 5,411,731 
 22,789,929 
17,003,814 
 91,055,934 
70,399,667 
Operating cost
 (18,821,252)
 (12,797,193)
 (19,745,444)
 (14,042,908)
 (89,496,281)
 (67,031,278)
Finance cost
 (1,354,402)
 (1,192,991)
 (180,182)
 (150,881)
 (1,880,525)
 (1,679,343)
Finance income
 109,286 
 170,104 
 36,885 
 41,725 
 331,717 
 110,156 
Change in fair value of investment property
 272,176 
 (93,269)
 16,955 
 3,873 
 - 
 - 
Profit before tax 
 (880,008)
(8,501,618)
 2,918,143 
 2,855,623 
 10,845 
 1,799,202 
Tax expense
 (45,208)
 939,516 
 (422,136)
 (140,723)
 (871,971)
 (239,748)
Profit for the year 
 (925,216)
 (7,562,102)
 2,496,007 
 2,714,900 
 (861,126)
 1,559,454 
Other comprehensive income
 7,709,765 
 867,016 
 445,646 
 219,530 
 77,464 
145,587
Total comprehensive income
 6,784,549 
 (6,695,086)
 2,941,653 
 2,934,430 
 (783,662)
 1,705,041 
Profit/(loss) allocated to NCI
 (354,038)
 (1,386,816)
 335,195 
 379,676 
 108,455 
 95,882 
Dividend paid to NCI
-
 34,682 
 303,576 
 511,682 
 47,122 
 - 
Summarised Statement of Financial Position as 
at 31 March
Non-current assets
120,253,329
 98,693,640 
11,632,161
 10,963,618 
 30,400,747 
 26,484,462 
Current assets
11,279,465
 5,476,273 
8,285,136
 5,621,740 
19,353,268 
 16,736,901 
Total assets
 131,532,794 
 104,169,913 
 19,917,297 
 16,585,358 
 49,754,015 
 43,221,363 
Non-current liabilities
 47,510,875 
 36,126,803 
 1,314,538 
 1,490,161 
 18,196,261 
 13,695,196 
Current liabilities
 22,202,344 
 12,887,881 
 7,078,159 
 4,497,205 
 29,820,354 
 26,488,264 
Total liabilities
 69,713,219 
 49,014,684 
 8,392,697 
 5,987,366 
 48,016,615 
 40,183,460 
Accumulated balances of NCI
 11,436,504
10,236,551
 5,071,929
4,403,591
 1,327,956
1,162,478
Summarised Statement of Cash Flows for the 
year ended 31 March
Cash flows from/(used in) operating activities
514,163
 (2,138,318)
 2,966,726 
 3,224,581 
 7,921,836 
 9,656,339 
Cash flows from/(used in) investing activities
 (679,397)
 (1,879,492)
 (1,508,946)
 (332,719)
 (3,148,738)
 (4,293,973)
Cash flows from/(used in) financing activities
4,526,341
 1,851,082 
 (1,910,526)
 (2,769,096)
 (2,440,274)
 5,052,179 
Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash 
equivalents
4,361,107
 (2,166,728)
(452,746)
 122,766 
 2,332,824 
 10,414,545 
The above information is based on amounts before inter-company eliminations.

223
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance       Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
Names of material partly-owned subsidiaries and effective holding % 
owned by non-controlling interest:
Material partly-owned subsidiary
2022
2021
Consumer Foods
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC
18.64%
18.64%
Keells Food Products PLC
11.37%
11.37%
The Colombo Ice Company (Pvt) Ltd
18.64%
18.64%
Retail
JayKay Marketing Services (Pvt) Ltd
18.64%
18.64%
Logipark International (Pvt) Ltd
18.64%
18.64%
Leisure
Ahungalle Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
19.68%
19.68%
Asian Hotels and Properties PLC
21.44%
21.44%
Beruwala Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
20.22%
20.22%
Ceylon Holiday Resorts Ltd
20.40%
20.40%
Cinnamon Holidays (Pvt) Ltd
19.68%
19.68%
Fantasea World Investments (Pte) Ltd
19.68%
19.68%
Habarana Lodge Ltd
21.01%
21.01%
Habarana Walk Inn Ltd
20.66%
20.66%
Hikkaduwa Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
20.40%
20.40%
International Tourists and Hoteliers Ltd
20.22%
20.22%
John Keells Hotels PLC
19.68%
19.68%
John Keells Maldivian Resorts (Pte) Ltd
19.68%
19.68%
Kandy Walk Inn Ltd
20.97%
20.97%
Nuwara Eliya Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
19.68%
19.68%
Rajawella Hotels Company Ltd
19.68%
19.68%
Resort Hotels Ltd 
20.40%
20.40%
Tranquility (Pte) Ltd
19.68%
19.68%
Trans Asia Hotels PLC
17.26%
17.26%
Travel Club (Pte) Ltd
19.68%
19.68%
Trinco Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
19.68%
19.68%
Trinco Walk Inn Ltd
19.68%
19.68%
Walkers Tours Ltd 
1.95%
1.95%
Wirawila Walk Inn Ltd
19.68%
19.68%
Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd
24.67%
24.67%
Accounting judgements,estimates and assumptions
Consolidation of entities in which the Group holds less than a 
majority of voting right (de facto control).
The Group considers that it controls some subsidiaries even though it 
owns less than 50% of the voting rights. This is because the Group is the 
single largest shareholder of those subsidiaries with equity interest. The 
remaining equity shares in those subsidiaries are widely held by many 
other shareholders, and there is no history of the other shareholders 
collaborating to exercise their votes collectively or to outvote the Group.
Considering the Group balances, none of the individual partly-owned 
subsidiaries have material non-controlling interest. However, the above 
information has been presented on the aggregated interests in similar 
entities namely, the Leisure and Consumer Foods and Retail segment, 
based on the nature and risks of the products and services.
10 . 
Business combinations and acquisitions of non-controlling 
interests 
Accounting policy 
Business combinations & goodwill
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method 
of accounting. The Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date as 
the fair value of the consideration transferred including the recognised 
amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree, less the net 
recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets 
acquired and liabilities assumed, all measured as of the acquisition date.
When the fair value of the consideration transferred including the 
recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree is 
lower than the fair value of net assets acquired, a gain is recognised 
immediately in the income statement. The Group elects on a 
transaction-by-transaction basis whether to measure non-controlling 
interests at fair value, or at their proportionate share of the recognised 
amount of the identifiable net assets, at the acquisition date. Transaction 
costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity 
securities, that the Group incurs in connection with a business 
combination are expensed as incurred. When the Group acquires a 
business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for 
appropriate classification and designation in accordance with the 
contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as 
at the acquisition date. If the business combination is achieved in stages, 
the acquisition date fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity 
interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date 
through profit or loss. Any contingent consideration to be transferred 
by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. 
Contingent consideration, resulting from business combinations, is 
valued at fair value at the acquisition date. Contingent consideration 
classified as equity is not remeasured and its subsequent settlement is 
accounted for within equity. Contingent consideration classified as an 
asset or liability that is a financial instrument and within the scope of 
SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments, is measured at fair value with the changes 
in fair value recognised in the Income Statement, in accordance with 
SLFRS 9.

224 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Notes to the Financial Statements
Other contingent consideration that is not within the scope of SLFRS 9 is 
measured at fair value at each reporting date with changes in fair value 
recognised in profit or loss.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any 
accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment, 
annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business 
combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the 
Group’s cash generating units that are expected to benefit from the 
combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the 
acquiree are assigned to those units.
Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of 
the cash-generating unit to which the goodwill relates. Where the 
recoverable amount of the cash generating unit is less than the carrying 
amount, an impairment loss is recognised. The impairment loss is 
allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated 
to the unit and then to the other assets pro-rata to the carrying amount 
of each asset in the unit. Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on 
the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities 
of the foreign operation and translated at the closing rate.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the 
operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated 
with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of 
the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the 
operation, goodwill disposed in this circumstance is measured based on 
the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the 
cash-generating unit retained. 
Impairment of goodwill
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually (as at 31 March) when 
circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired. 
Impairment is determined for goodwill by assessing the recoverable 
amount of each cash-generating unit (or group of cash-generating units) 
to which the goodwill relates. Where the recoverable amount of the cash 
generating unit is less than their carrying amount, an impairment loss is 
recognised. Impairment losses relating to goodwill cannot be reversed in 
future periods.
10.  
Business combinations and acquisitions of non-controlling 
interests (Contd.)
10.1  Investment in subsidiaries
Waterfront Properties (Pvt) Ltd (WPL) 
John Keells Holdings PLC (JKH) further invested Rs.13,552 Mn (2021 - 
Rs.8,418 Mn) in WPL, a subsidiary of JKH involved in developing, owning, 
managing, operating, selling, leasing and renting of a luxury multi/mixed 
use Integrated Resort.
J K Land (Pvt) Ltd (J K Land) 
John Keells Holdings PLC (JKH) further invested Rs.1,940 Mn in JK Land to 
increase its shareholding in Vauxhall Land Developments (Pvt) Ltd.
Vauxhall Land Developments (Pvt) Ltd (VLD) 
John Keells Holdings PLC, through JK Land (Pvt) Ltd, discharged the 
committed consideration to acquire the remaining 13.3% equity stake of 
VLD from Finlays Colombo Limited for a consideration of Rs.2,991 Mn.
John Keells Property Developments (Pvt) Ltd
John Keells Property Developments (Pvt) Ltd disposed 98.88 perches of 
land in Tickell Road, Colombo 8 for a consideration of Rs.1.14 Bn and the 
company is under liquidation.
10.2 Investment in equity accounted investees
Colombo West International Container Terminal (Pvt) Ltd (CWIT)
John Keells Holdings PLC invested Rs.2,856 Mn in CWIT as per the 
Build, Own and Transfer (BOT) Agreement between the Sri Lanka Ports 
Authority and CWIT. JKH has a 34% stake in CWIT with the primary 
investor Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone Limited having a stake 
of 51%. 
Inchcape Mackinnon Mackenzie Shipping (Pvt) Ltd (IMMS) 
John Keells Holdings PLC invested Rs.16 Mn in IMMS as per the joint 
venture agreement entered into with ISS Group Holdings Limited. This 
investment gives JKH the right to 60% of the shares of IMMS. 
Saffron Aviation (Pvt) Ltd (Saffron) 
John Keells Holdings PLC (JKH) further invested Rs.74 Mn in Saffron, the 
operating company of the domestic aviation operation 'Cinnamon Air’.

225
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance       Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
11. 
 Financial risk management objectives and policies
The Group has loans and other receivables, trade and other receivables 
and cash and short-term deposits that arise directly from its operations. 
The Group also holds other financial instruments such as available 
for sale and fair value through profit or loss financial instruments and 
may enter into derivative transactions. The Group’s principal financial 
liabilities, comprise of loans and borrowings, trade and other payables 
and financial guarantee contracts. The main purpose of these financial 
liabilities is to finance the Group’s operations and to provide guarantees 
to support its operations. The financial risk governance framework 
provides assurance to the Group’s senior management that the 
Group’s financial risk activities are governed by appropriate policies 
and procedures and that financial risks are identified, measured and 
managed in accordance with the Group’s policies and risk objectives. The 
Group is exposed to market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
11.1   Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not meet its obligations 
under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading to a financial 
loss. The Group is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities 
(primarily trade receivables) and from its financing activities, including 
deposits with banks and financial institutions, foreign exchange 
transactions and other financial instruments.
The Group trades only with recognised, creditworthy third parties. It is 
the Group’s policy that all clients who wish to trade on credit terms are 
subject to credit verification procedures. In addition, receivable balances 
are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that the Group’s 
exposure to bad debts is not significant.
With respect to credit risk arising from the other financial assets of the 
Group, such as cash and cash equivalents, available-for-sale financial 
investments, investments, and certain derivative instruments, the Group’s 
exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty. The 
Group manages its operations to avoid any excessive concentration of 
counterparty risk and the Group takes all reasonable steps to ensure the 
counterparties fulfill their obligations.

226 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
11 . 
 Financial risk management objectives and policies (Contd.)
11.1.1 Risk exposure
The maximum risk positions of financial assets which are generally subject to credit risk are equal to their carrying amounts  
(without consideration of collateral, if available). Following table shows the maximum risk positions. 
As at 31 March
2022
In Rs.‘000s
Notes
 Non 
current 
financial 
assets 
Cash in 
hand and 
at bank
Trade
and other
receivables
Short term 
investments
Amounts 
due from 
related 
parties
Total
%
of 
allocation
Group
Government securities
11.1.2
 31,752,878 
 - 
 - 
 10,704,129 
 - 
 42,457,007 
18%
Corporate debt securities
11.1.3
 9,553,315 
 - 
 - 
 1,454,315 
 - 
 11,007,630 
5%
Deposits with banks
11.1.4
 632,491 
 - 
 - 
 95,936,007 
 - 
 96,569,378 
41%
Loans to executives
11.1.5
 1,048,842 
 - 
 326,682 
 - 
 - 
 1,375,524 
1%
Loans to life policyholders
11.1.6
 1,952,394 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,952,394 
1%
Preference Shares 
11.1.7
 373,701 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 373,701 
0%
Interest rate swap
11.1.8
 2,928,815 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2,928,815 
1%
Trade and other receivables
11.1.9
 - 
 - 
 25,550,066 
 - 
 - 
 25,550,066 
11%
Reinsurance receivables
11.1.10
 - 
 - 
 1,135,652 
 - 
 - 
 1,135,652 
0%
Assets backed securities
11.1.11
 314,304 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
314,304
0%
Premium receivable
11.1.12
 - 
 - 
482,948
 - 
 - 
482,948
0%
Amounts due from related parties
11.1.13
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 196,394 
 196,394 
0%
Cash in hand and at bank
11.1.14
 - 
 52,376,531 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 52,376,531 
22%
Total credit risk exposure 
 48,556,740 
 52,376,531 
27,495,348  108,095,331 
 196,394 
236,406,039
100%
Financial assets at fair value through 
P&L
11.3.3.1
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2,626,213 
 - 
Financial assets at fair value through 
OCI
11.3.3.2
 133,749 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total equity risk exposure 
 133,749 
 - 
 - 
 2,626,213 
 - 
Total 
 48,690,489 
 52,376,531 
27,495,348  110,721,544 
 196,394 
Company
Government securities
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
-
Deposits with banks
11.1.4
 - 
 - 
 - 
 83,972,660 
 - 
 83,972,660 
73%
Loans to executives
11.1.5
 66,659 
 - 
 23,078 
 - 
 - 
 89,737 
0%
Interest rate swap
11.1.8
 2,928,815 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2,928,815 
2%
Trade and other receivables
11.1.9
 - 
 - 
 80,836 
 - 
 - 
 80,836 
0%
Amounts due from related parties
11.1.13
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 660,699 
 660,699 
1%
Cash in hand and at bank
11.1.14
 - 
 27,362,010 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 27,362,010 
24%
Total credit risk exposure 
 2,995,474 
 27,362,010 
 103,914 
 83,972,660 
 660,699  115,094,757 
100%
Financial assets at fair value through 
OCI
11.3.3.2
 87,563 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total equity risk exposure 
 87,563 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total 
 3,083,037 
 27,362,010 
 103,914 
 83,972,660 
 660,699 
Notes to the Financial Statements

227
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance       Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
2021
 Non 
current 
financial 
assets 
Cash in 
hand and 
at bank
Trade
and other
receivables
Short term 
investments
Amounts 
due from 
related 
parties
Total
%
of 
allocation
 29,703,638 
 - 
 - 
 10,455,199 
 - 
 40,158,837 
24%
 9,955,243 
 - 
 - 
 1,290,325 
 - 
 11,245,568 
7%
 18,871,021 
 - 
 - 
 54,045,971 
 - 
 72,916,992 
44%
990,562 
 - 
 341,838 
 - 
 - 
 1,332,400 
1%
 1,840,841 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,840,841 
1%
 351,430 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
351,430
0%
 729,316 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 729,316 
1%
 - 
 - 
 16,192,825 
 - 
 - 
 16,192,825 
10%
 - 
 - 
 589,306 
 - 
 - 
 589,306 
0%
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
 - 
 - 
 332,729 
 - 
 - 
 332,729 
0%
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 123,553 
 123,553 
0%
 - 
 19,432,579 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 19,432,579 
12%
 62,442,051 
 19,432,579 
17,456,698 
 65,791,495 
 123,553  165,246,376 
100%
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3,471,266 
 - 
 147,752 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 147,752 
 - 
 - 
 3,471,266 
 - 
 62,589,803 
 19,432,579 
17,456,698 
 69,262,761 
 123,553 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3,339,580 
 - 
 3,339,580 
5%
 16,729,867 
 - 
 - 
 48,251,457 
 - 
 64,981,324 
92%
 59,592 
 - 
 19,406 
 - 
 - 
 78,998 
0%
 729,316 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 729,316 
1%
 - 
 - 
 95,374 
 - 
 - 
 95,374 
0%
-
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,465,816 
 1,465,816 
2%
 - 
 305,373 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 305,373 
0%
 17,518,775 
 305,373 
 114,780 
 51,591,037 
 1,465,816 
 70,995,781 
100%
 92,346 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 92,346 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 17,611,121 
 305,373 
 114,780 
 51,591,037 
 1,465,816 

228 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Notes to the Financial Statements
11.  
 Financial risk management objectives and policies (Contd.)
11.1.2 Government securities 
As at 31 March 2022 as shown in table above, 18% (2021 - 24%) of debt 
securities comprise investments in government securities consist of 
treasury bonds, bills and reverse repo investments. 
GROUP
As at 31 March
2022
2021
Fitch ratings
 In Rs.’000s 
% 
 In Rs.’000s 
% 
AAA
 - 
-
 158,965 
1%
AA
 959,461 
9%
 1,307,864 
12%
AA- 
 863,526 
8%
 1,074,244 
10%
A+
 895,622 
8%
 665,947 
6%
A 
 2,407,965 
22%
 2,665,685 
24%
A-
 2,179,836 
20%
 2,128,541 
19%
BBB
 114,312 
1%
 168,264 
1%
BBB+ 
 3,212,371 
29%
 3,076,058 
27%
B-
 158,934 
1%
-
-
CC
 215,603 
2%
-
-
Total 
 11,007,630 
100%
 11,245,568 
100%
11.1.4 Deposits with banks
Deposits with bank mainly consist of fixed and call deposits .
As at 31 March 2022, fixed and call deposits comprise 91% (2021 - 99%) and 90% (2021 - 100%) for the Group and Company respectively were rated “A” 
or better.
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2022
 2021
2022
2021
Fitch ratings
 In Rs.
’000s 
% 
 In Rs.
’000s 
% 
 In Rs.
’000s 
% 
 In Rs.
’000s 
%
AAA 
 - 
-
 2,358,274 
3%
 - 
-
-
-
AA+
 - 
-
 367,612 
0%
 - 
 - 
 - 
-
AA- 
 80,016,461 
83%
 64,608,594 
89%
 54,088,324 
64%
62,764,844
97%
A+
1,120,113
1%
 4,238,545 
6%
 - 
 - 
 2,216,480 
3%
A 
 6,187,339 
7%
 591,766 
1%
 21,689,059 
26%
 - 
-
A-
 985,225 
1%
 - 
-
 - 
 - 
 - 
-
B
 - 
-
 752,201 
1%
 - 
 - 
 - 
-
CC
 8,260,240 
8%
- 
-
 8,195,277 
10%
-
-
Total
 96,569,378
100%
72,916,992
100%
 83,972,660 
100%
64,981,324
100%
11.1.3 Corporate debt securities 
As at 31 March 2022 corporate debt securities comprise 5% (2021-7%) of 
the total investments in debt securities, out of which 47% (2021 – 53%) 
were rated “A” or better, or guaranteed by a banking institution with a 
rating of “A” or better.
11.1.5 Loans to executives 
Loans to executive portfolio is largely made up of vehicle loans which 
are given to staff at assistant manager level and above. The respective 
business units have obtained the necessary promissory notes as 
collateral for the loans granted. 
11.1.6 Loans to life policyholders 
The surrender value of insurance policies considered as the collateral for the 
loans given to life policy holders by Union Assuarance PLC. System controls 
are in place to automatically convert a policy to lapse stage when the policy 
loan amount together with the interest is reaching the surrender value of 
the policy.
11.1.7 Preference Shares 
Cumulative preference share investment which has lien over an asset, 
redeemable at the option of shareholder.

229
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance       Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
11.1.9 Trade and other receivables  
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
In Rs.‘000s
2022
2021
2022
2021
Neither past due nor impaired
8,295,935
 9,882,277 
 15,490 
 20,618 
Past due but not impaired
 0-30 days
10,471,326
 4,343,193 
 19,577 
 19,454 
 31–60 days
3,751,646
 923,115 
 9,184 
 9,121 
 61–90 days
1,893,908
 681,878 
 33,437 
 33,376 
 > 91 days
1,137,251
 362,362 
 3,148 
 12,805 
Allowance for expected credit losses
 679,572 
 1,314,335 
 944
 14,555 
Gross carrying value
 26,229,638 
 17,507,160 
 81,780 
 109,929 
Allowance for expected credit losses
 (679,572)
 (1,314,335)
 (944)
 (14,555)
Total
 25,550,066 
 16,192,825 
 80,836 
 95,374 
The Group has obtained customer deposit from major customers by 
reviewing their past performance and credit worthiness, as collateral. 
The requirement for an impairment is analysed at each reporting date on 
an individual basis for major customers. Additionally, a large number of 
minor receivables are grouped into homogenous groups and assessed 
for impairment collectively. The calculation is based on actual incurred 
historical data.
The Group’s exposure to credit risk is influenced by the individual 
characteristics of each customer. The individual receivable balances were 
re-assessed, specific provisions were made wherever necessary, existing 
practice on the provisioning of trade receivables were re-visited and 
adjusted to reflect the different rearrangement of homogeneous groups. 
Receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis to minimise 
bad debt risk and to ensure default rates are kept very low, whilst the 
improved operating environment resulted in improved collections 
during the financial year although there could be stresses in the ensuing 
year on account of the macroeconomic uncertainty and related impacts 
to our customers on account of elevated inflation and interest rates and 
the possible impact on consumer discretionary spend. 
11.1.10 Reinsurance receivables 
The Union Assurance PLC operates a policy to manage its reinsurance 
counterparty exposures by limiting the reinsurers that may be used and 
applying strict limits each reinsurer.
11.1.11 Asset Backed Securities 
Asset Backed Securities  are fixed income instruments created through 
securitization. This involves transferring assets (collateral) from the 
original owner to the trustee and then issuing securities based by these 
assets. The asset cash flows of the collateral are used to pay interest 
and re- pay capital. The Group closely monitors the grate rate of the 
investment to mitigate the credit risk associated. 
11.1.12 Premium receivable 
Only designated institutions are employed as intermediary parties 
by Union Assurance PLC Agreements have been signed within the 
intermediaries committing them to settle dues within a specified time 
period.
11.1.13 Amounts due from related parties 
The Group's amounts due from related parties mainly consists of 
associates and other venture partners' balances. The Company balance 
consists of the balances from affiliate companies.
11.1.14 Credit risk relating to cash in hand and bank balance 
In order to mitigate the concentration, settlement and operational risks 
related to cash and cash equivalents, the Group consciously manages 
the exposure to a single counterparty taking into consideration, where 
relevant, the rating or financial standing of the counterparty, where the 
position is reviewed as and when required, the duration of the exposure 
in managing such exposures and the nature of the transaction and 
agreement governing the exposure. 
11.2   Liquidity risk 
The Group’s policy is to hold cash and undrawn committed facilities at 
a level sufficient to ensure that the Group has available funds to meet 
its short and medium term capital and funding obligations, including 
organic growth and acquisition activities, and to meet any unforeseen 
obligations and opportunities. The Group holds cash and undrawn 
committed facilities to enable the Group to manage its liquidity risk.
The Group monitors its risk to a shortage of funds using a daily cash 
management process. This process considers the maturity of both 
the Group’s financial investments and financial assets (e.g. accounts 
receivable, other financial assets) and projected cash flows from 
operations.
The Group’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of 
funding and flexibility through the use of multiple sources of funding 
including debentures, bank loans, loan notes, overdrafts and finance 
leases over a broad spread of maturities.
11.1.8 Interest rate swap
The Group has entered into interest rate swap that is a cash flow hedge.The changes in counterparty credit risk had no material effect on the hedge 
effectiveness assessment for derivatives designated in hedge relationships. Refer Note 13.3.

230 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
11.  
 Financial risk management objectives and policies (Contd.)
11.2.1 Net debt/(cash) 
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2022
2021
2022
2021
In Rs.'000s
Short term investments
 110,721,544 
 69,262,761 
 83,972,660 
 51,591,037 
Cash in hand and at bank
 52,376,531 
 19,432,579 
 27,362,010 
 305,373 
Adjustments to liquid assets
 (6,008,147)
(6,937,193)
 - 
 - 
Total liquid assets
 157,089,928 
81,758,147
 111,334,670 
 51,896,410 
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings (Non-current)
 158,921,898 
 118,965,640 
 64,634,033 
 44,179,490 
Lease liabilities (Non-current)
 30,066,952 
 24,234,968 
 - 
 - 
Short term borrowings
 14,833,056 
 6,903,737 
 2,000,000 
 - 
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings (Current)
 40,624,448 
 9,507,473 
 2,562,994 
3,007,368
Lease liabilities (Current)
 3,459,496 
 1,472,297 
 - 
 - 
Bank overdrafts
 20,321,777 
 11,820,179 
 2,939,311 
9,783
Total liabilities
 268,227,627 
 172,904,294 
 72,136,338 
47,196,641
Net debt / (cash)
111,137,699
91,146,147
 (39,198,332)
(4,699,769)
Notes to the Financial Statements
11.2.2  
 Liquidity risk management 
The mixed approach combines elements of the cash flow matching 
approach and the liquid assets approach. 
Group has implemented a mixed approach that combines elements of 
the cash flow matching approach and the liquid assets approach. The 
business units matched cash outflows in each time bucket against the 
combination of contractual cash inflows plus other inflows that can be 
generated through the sale of assets, repurchase agreement, or other 
secured borrowings.
The Group continued to place emphasis on ensuring that cash and 
undrawn committed facilities are sufficient to meet the short, medium 
and long-term funding requirements, unforeseen obligations as well 
as unanticipated opportunities. Constant dialogue between Group 
companies and banks regarding financing requirements, ensures that 
availability within each single borrower limit is optimised by efficiently 
reallocating under-utilised facilities within the Group. 
The Government of Sri Lanka offered certain relief measures including a 
moratorium on repayment of loans and concessionary working capital 
facilities for eligible industries. Group companies qualified for such relief 
measures and it helped ease the financial position further during the 
financial year. 
The daily cash management processes at the business units include 
active cash flow forecasts and matching the duration and profiles of 
assets and liabilities, thereby ensuring a prudent balance between 
liquidity and earnings.
Maturity analysis - Group
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial 
liabilities at 31 March 2022 based on contractual undiscounted (principal 
plus interest) payments.
GROUP
In Rs.‘000s
Within 1 
year
Between
1-2 years
Between
2-3 years
Between
3-4 years
Between
4-5 years
More than 
5 years
Total
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
44,444,003
30,103,624
37,649,735
38,215,436
32,110,580
40,827,883
223,351,262
Lease liabilities
4,782,574
3,739,568
4,953,710
3,413,157
3,498,153
22,539,787
42,926,949
Interest rate swap
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Trade and other payables
 43,469,407 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 43,469,407 
Amounts due to related parties
 1,818 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,818 
Short term borrowings
 14,833,056 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 14,833,056 
Bank overdrafts
 20,321,777 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 20,321,777 
127,852,636
33,843,192
42,603,445
41,628,593
35,608,733
63,367,670
344,904,269

231
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance       Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities at 31 March 2021 based on contractual undiscounted (principal plus 
interest) payments.
In Rs.‘000s
Within 1 
year
Between
1-2 years
Between
2-3 years
Between
3-4 years
Between
4-5 years
More than 
5 years
Total
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
 10,661,673 
 63,599,843 
 7,744,177 
 11,541,441 
 13,209,355 
 34,991,322 
 141,747,811 
Lease liabilities
 1,611,278 
 2,560,451 
 1,440,887 
 2,410,028 
 1,573,467 
 16,642,933 
 26,239,044 
Interest rate swap
 332,858 
 80,608 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 413,466 
Trade and other payables
 35,287,700 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 35,287,700 
Amounts due to related parties
 1,385 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,385 
Short term borrowings
 6,903,737 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 6,903,737 
Other current financial liabilities
 2,991,093 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2,991,093 
Bank overdrafts
 11,820,179 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 11,820,179 
 69,609,903 
 66,240,902 
 9,185,064 
 13,951,469 
 14,782,822 
 51,634,255 
 225,404,415 
Maturity analysis - Company
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Company’s financial liabilities at 31 March 2022 based on contractual undiscounted (principal 
plus interest) payments.
In Rs.‘000s
Within 1 
year
Between
1-2 years
  Between 
2-3 years  
  Between 
3-4 years  
  Between
4-5 years 
  More than
5 Years 
Total
 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 
 5,374,976 
 5,846,223 
 9,525,647 
 15,522,813 
 12,963,246 
 40,417,925 
 89,650,830 
 Trade and other payables 
 566,252 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 566,252 
 Amounts due to related parties 
 20,912 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 20,912 
Short term borrowings
 2,000,000 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2,000,000 
 Bank overdrafts 
 2,939,311 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2,939,311 
 10,901,451 
 5,846,223 
 9,525,647 
 15,522,813 
 12,963,246 
 40,417,925 
 95,177,305 
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Company's financial liabilities at 31 March 2021 based on contractual undiscounted (principal 
plus interest) payments. 
In Rs.‘000s
Within 1 
year
Between
1-2 years
  Between 
2-3 years  
  Between 
3-4 years  
  Between
4-5 years 
  More than
5 Years 
Total
 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 
 4,071,811 
 3,796,671 
 4,223,052 
 6,577,937 
 10,264,328 
 31,489,326 
 60,423,125 
 Trade and other payables 
 372,711 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 372,711 
 Amounts due to related parties 
 13,181 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 13,181 
 Bank overdrafts 
 9,781 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 9,781 
 4,467,484 
 3,796,671 
 4,223,052 
 6,577,937 
 10,264,328 
 31,489,326 
 60,818,798 

232 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Notes to the Financial Statements
GROUP
COMPANY
Increase/ (decrease) in basis points
Effect on profit before tax 
Rs.‘000s
For the year ended 31 March
Rupee 
borrowings
Other currency
borrowings
2022
+138
+58
 (1,220,476)
 (498,851)
-138
-58
 1,220,476 
 498,851
2021
+411
+71
 (1,730,706)
 (736,264)
-411
-71
 1,730,706 
 736,264 
The assumed spread of basis points for the interest rate sensitivity analysis is based on the currently observable market environment changes to base 
floating interest rates.
11.  
 Financial risk management objectives and policies (Contd.)
11.3   Market risk  
Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial 
instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market prices.
Market risk comprises of the following types of risk:
* Interest rate risk
* Currency risk
* Equity price risk
* Commodity price risk
The objective of market risk management is to manage and 
control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while 
optimising the return.
The sensitivity analyses in the following sections relate to the 
position as at 31 March in 2022 and 2021.
The analysis excludes the impact of movements in market variables 
on the carrying values of other post-retirement obligations, 
provisions, and the non-financial assets and liabilities.
The following assumptions have been made in calculating the 
sensitivity analyses:
*  The sensitivity of the Statement of Financial Position item mainly 
relates to derivatives and debt instruments.
* The sensitivity of the relevant Income Statement item is the effect 
of the assumed changes in respective market risks. 
* This is based on the financial assets and financial liabilities held at 
31 March 2022 and 2021.
11.3.1 Interest rate risk 
Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows 
of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in 
market interest rates. The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes in 
market interest rates relate primarily to the Group’s long-term debt 
obligations with floating interest rates. 
To manage the exposure of floating interest rates which is 
common to most loans, the Group enters into interest rate swaps, 
where necessary and applicable, in which it agrees to exchange, 
at specified intervals, the difference between fixed and variable 
rate interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed upon 
notional principal amount. 
The Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL) adopted a tightening monetary 
policy stance during the latter half of the financial year, resulting in 
an upward trend in interest rates. Elevated pressures on inflation on 
account of many factors including increases in global commodity 
prices, food supply and the sharp depreciation of the currency in 
March 2022 have resulted in strong policy actions by the CBSL on 
monetary policy post the end of the reporting period. Such actions 
have raised monetary policy rates significantly and helped bridge 
the gap between policy and market interest rates. The Group 
proactively managed the risk of increasing interest rates by re-
balancing its portfolio of borrowings and moved a sizeable portion 
of the Sri Lankan Rupee borrowings on a long-term basis. Further, 
where relevant and possible, a majority of the Rupee long-term 
facilities were on a fixed rate basis over the tenor of the loan. In 
respect of the Group’s foreign currency borrowing portfolio, interest 
rate swap agreements are in place for a sizeable portion of the 
facilities.
The table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible 
change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, of the 
Group’s and Company's profit before tax (through the impact on 
floating rate borrowings). 

233
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance       Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
11.3.2  
 Foreign currency risk 
Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows 
of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in foreign 
exchange rates. The Group has exposure to foreign currency risk where it 
has cash flows in overseas operations and foreign currency transactions 
which are affected by foreign exchange movements. Group treasury 
analyses the market condition of foreign exchange and provides market 
updates to the Group Executive Committee (GEC), with the use of 
external consultants' advice. Based on the suggestions made by Group 
treasury the GEC takes decisions on whether to hold, sell, or make 
forward bookings of foreign currency as per decision rights given by 
Board of Directors.
Assumptions
The assumed spread of the exchange rate is based on the current 
observable market environment.
The Sri Lankan Rupee witnessed significant volatility, particularly during 
the latter part of the year. Whilst the exchange rate was kept at a pegged 
level during the year, as per the guidelines issued to the banks by the 
Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL), the currency depreciated sharply in 
March 2022 once the CBSL allowed a free float of the currency which 
resulted in a steep depreciation of the Rs. by 31 March 2022. In addition 
to the depreciation of the currency, there were significant challenges 
in the foreign currency market on the back of a marked reduction 
in liquidity amidst declining confidence and a depletion of foreign 
currency reserves in the country. This resulted in a series of measures 
such as the continuation of certain import controls and stipulations on 
foreign currency conversions and remittances. The lack of confidence 
in the market however resulted in a sharp reduction in foreign currency 
employment remittances which exacerbated the liquidity situation. The 
Group adopted prudent measures, as and when required, to manage 
the financial impacts arising from the liquidity constraints and currency 
fluctuations by matching liabilities with corresponding inflows. At 
a Group level, the translation risk on foreign currency debt is largely 
hedged “naturally” as a result of the conscious strategy of maintaining 
US Dollar cash balances at the holding company whilst also ensuring 
obligations can be managed through US Dollar denominated revenue 
streams. The Group was able to navigate the liquidity challenges through 
matching its obligations with foreign currency inflows as far as possible 
while also using the strength of the Group balance sheet to manage the 
situation.
11.3.3 Equity price risk 
The Group’s listed and unlisted equity securities are susceptible to 
market price risk arising from uncertainties about future values of the 
investment securities. 
11.3.3.1 Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss 
The Group manages the equity price risk through diversification and by 
placing limits on individual and total equity instruments. Reports on the 
equity portfolio are submitted to the Group’s senior management on 
a regular basis. The Board of Directors reviews and approves all equity 
investment decisions. 
11.3.2.1 Effects of currency translation 
For purposes of Group consolidated financial statements, income and 
expenses and assets and liabilities of subsidiaries whose functional 
currency differs from the Group presentation currency are translated into 
the Group presentation currency. Therefore, period-to-period changes in 
average exchange rates may cause currency translation effects that have 
a significant impact on, for example, revenue, segment results (Earnings 
Before Interest and Taxes –EBIT) and assets and liabilities of the Group. 
Unlike exchange rate transaction risk, exchange rate translation risk 
does not necessarily affect future cash flows. The Group’s equity position 
reflects changes in book values caused by exchange rates.
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
Increase/(decrease)
in exchange rate USD
Effect on profit 
before tax 
Rs.‘000s
Effect on equity 
Rs.‘000s
Effect on profit 
before tax 
Rs.‘000s
Effect on equity 
Rs.‘000s
2022
+52%
23,158,974
88,861,968
27,672,121
1,524,448
-52%
(23,158,974)
(88,861,968)
(27,672,121)
(1,524,448)
2021
+ 7%
 2,186,890 
7,286,362
 763,078 
-
- 7%
 (2,186,890)
(7,286,362)
 (763,078)
-

234 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
GROUP
As at 31 March
2022
2021
Rs.’000s
% 
Rs.’000s
% 
Banks
 369,346 
14%
 1,400,564 
40%
Capital goods
 972,803 
37%
 675,286 
20%
Consumer durables and apparel
 653,667 
25%
 347,799 
10%
Consumer services
 52,532 
2%
 23,841 
1%
Food and staples retailing
-
-
 269,082 
8%
Food beverage and tobacco
 197,718 
7%
 565,561 
16%
Materials
 69,533 
3%
 - 
-
Telecommunication services
 259,743 
10%
 189,133 
5%
Application Software
 25,258 
1%
 - 
-
Household and Personal Products
 4,527 
0%
 - 
-
Transpotation
 21,086 
1%
 - 
-
 2,626,213 
100%
 3,471,266 
100%
11.3.3.2 Financial instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income statement 
All unquoted equity investments are made after obtaining Board of Directors approval. 
11.3.3.3   Sensitivity analysis 
The table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in the market index, with all other variables held constant, of the Group and 
Company's profit before tax and equity due to changes in the fair value of the listed equity securities.
Notes to the Financial Statements
GROUP
For the year ended 31 March
Change in year-end
 market price index
Effect on profit
before tax Rs.‘000s
Effect on equity
Rs.‘000s
2022
+28%
 1,103,009 
 - 
- 28%
 (1,103,009)
 - 
2021
+42%
 1,457,932 
 - 
-42%
 (1,457,932)
 - 
11.4   Capital management 
The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to ensure 
that it maintains a strong financial position and healthy capital ratios in 
order to support its business and maximise shareholder value. 
The Group manages its capital structure, and makes adjustments to it, in 
the light of changes in economic conditions. To maintain or adjust the 
capital structure, the Group may issue new shares, have a rights issue or 
buy back of shares.  
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2022
2021
2022
2021
Debt / Equity
81.3%
71.2%
42.5%
35.0%
12.  
Fair value measurement and related fair value disclosures 
Fair value measurement 
Fair value related disclosures for financial instruments and non-financial 
assets that are measured at fair value or where fair values are only, disclosed 
are reflected in this note. Aside from this note, additional fair value related 
disclosures, including the valuation methods, significant estimates and 
assumptions are also provided in:
• Investment in unquoted equity shares - Note 28.1
• Property, plant and equipment under revaluation model -  
Note 22.3
• Investment properties - Note 24
• Financial Instruments (including those carried at amortised cost) - 
Note 13
Accounting policy
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to 
transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants 
at the measurement date. The fair value measurement is based on the 
presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability 
takes place either:

235
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance       Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
•  In the principal market for the asset or liability, or 
•  In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous 
market for the asset or liability 
The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible by 
the Group. 
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions 
that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, 
assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest.
A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account 
a market participant’s ability to generate economic benefits by using 
the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market 
participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the 
circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair 
value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising 
the use of unobservable inputs.
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in 
the financial statements are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, 
described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to 
the fair value measurement as a whole:
• Level 1 — Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active markets for 
identical assets or liabilities 
• Level 2 — Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that 
is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly 
observable
• Level 3 — Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is 
significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable.
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements 
on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have 
occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation 
(based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value 
measurement as a whole) at the end of each reporting period.
The Group determines the policies and procedures for both recurring fair 
value measurement, such as investment properties and unquoted equity 
instruments, and for non-recurring measurement, such as assets held for 
sale in discontinued operations.
The services of external valuers are obtained for valuation of significant 
assets, such as land and building and investment properties. Selection 
criteria for external valuers include market knowledge, reputation, 
independence and whether professional standards are maintained. 
The Group decides, after discussions with the external valuers, which 
valuation techniques and inputs to use for individual assets.
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group has determined 
classes of assets on the basis of the nature, characteristics and risks of the 
asset and the level of the fair value hierarchy as explained above.
12.1  Fair value measurement hierarchy - Group
The Group held the following financial instruments carried at fair value in the Statement of Financial Position:
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
As at 31 March
In Rs.‘000s
2022
2021
2022
2021
2022
2021
2022
2021
FINANCIAL ASSETS
Non-listed equity 
investments
 - 
 - 
 280 
 280 
 133,469 
 147,346 
 133,749 
 147,626 
Listed equity investments
 4,503,190 
 4,050,765 
 341 
 86 
 - 
 - 
 4,503,531 
 4,050,851 
Quoted debt instruments
 7,787,418 
 7,751,585 
 222,988 
 289,214 
 - 
 - 
 8,010,406 
 8,040,799 
Unquoted debt instruments
 - 
 - 
 87,345 
 21,119 
 - 
 - 
 87,345 
 21,119 
Interest rate swap
 - 
 - 
 2,928,815 
 729,316 
 - 
 - 
 2,928,815 
 729,316 
Total
 12,290,608 
 11,802,350 
 3,239,769 
 1,040,015 
 133,469 
 147,346 
 15,663,846 
 12,989,711 
NON FINANCIAL ASSETS
Assets measured at fair 
value
Note
Land and buildings
 22.1 
-
-
-
-
 63,957,286 
 60,549,380 
 63,957,286 
 60,549,380 
Buildings on leasehold land
 22.1 
-
-
-
-
 37,368,368 
 30,092,912 
 37,368,368 
 30,092,912 
Investment property
 24
-
-
-
-
 30,607,550 
14,867,586 
 30,607,550 
14,867,586 
Total
-
-
-
-  131,933,204 105,509,878  131,933,204 109,509,878 

236 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Notes to the Financial Statements
In determining the fair value, highest and best use of the property has 
been considered including the current condition of the properties, 
future usability and associated redevelopment requirements. Also, the 
valuers have made reference to market evidence of transaction prices for 
similar properties, with appropriate adjustments for size and location. The 
appraised fair values are rounded within the range of values.
All the other financial instruments were properly categorized and during 
the period were not materially different from the transaction prices at the 
date of initial recognition. The fair value changes on financial instruments 
in Level 3 category was properly recorded in the statement of other 
comprehensive income Fair valuation was done as of 31 March 2022.
Financial assets at fair value through Profit and loss 
There may be an increase in the amount of subjectivity involved in fair 
value measurements, and as such, a greater use of unobservable inputs will 
be required because relevant observable inputs are no longer available. 
This will have a direct impact to the policyholder profit or loss where 
diversification of the portfolio with the unaffected and growing industries 
will mitigate the risk.
12.  
Fair value measurement and related fair value disclosures (Contd.)
12.1  Fair value measurement hierarchy - Group (Contd.)
12.2  Fair value measurement hierarchy - Company
FINANCIAL ASSETS
Level 2
Level 3
As at 31 March
In Rs.‘000s
2022
2021
2022
2021
Non-listed equity investments
 - 
-
 87,563 
 92,346
Interest rate swap
 2,928,815 
 729,316 
 - 
-
 2,928,815 
 729,316
 87,563 
 92,346
12.3  Reconciliation of fair value measurements of level 3 financial instruments
The Group and Company carries unquoted equity shares are classified as Level 3 within the fair value hierarchy. A reconciliation of the beginning and 
closing balances including movements is summarised below:
GROUP
COMPANY
In Rs.‘000s
Fair Value through other 
comprehensive income
As at 1 April 2021
 147,346 
 92,346 
Purchase of equity shares 
 2,268 
 2,140 
Remeasurement recognised in OCI
 (16,145)
 (6,923)
As at 31 March 2022
 133,469 
 87,563 
Fair valuation done as at 31 March 2022 for all unquoted equity shares are classified as Level 3 within the fair value hierarchy using fair valuation 
methodology. Fair value would not significantly vary if one or more of the inputs were changed.
13. 
Financial instruments and related policies 
Accounting policy
Financial instruments — Initial recognition and subsequent 
measurement
Initial recognition and measurement
Financial assets within the scope of SLFRS 9 are classified as amortised 
cost, fair value through other comprehensive income (OCI), and fair 
value through profit or loss.
The classification of financial assets at initial recognition depends on the 
financial asset’s contractual cash flow characteristics and the Group’s 
business model for managing them. This assessment is referred to as the 
SPPI test and is performed at an instrument level. The business model 
determines whether cash flows will result from collecting contractual 
cash flows, selling the financial assets, or both. With the exception of 
trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing component 
or for which the Group has applied the practical expedient are measured 
at the transaction price.
At initial recognition, the Group measures a financial asset at its fair value 
plus, in the case of a financial asset not at fair value through profit or loss 
(FVPL), transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition 
of the financial asset. Transaction costs of financial assets carried at FVPL 
are expensed in profit or loss.
The Group’s financial assets include cash and short-term deposits, 
trade and other receivables, loans and other receivables, quoted and 
unquoted financial instruments and derivative financial instruments.

237
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance       Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
Subsequent measurement
For purposes of subsequent measurement, financial assets are classified 
in four categories
•  Financial assets at amortised cost
• Financial assets at fair value through OCI with recycling of cumulative 
gains and losses
• Financial assets designated at fair value through OCI with no recycling 
of cumulative gains and losses upon derecognition
•  Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
Debt instruments
Financial assets at amortised cost
Assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows where 
those cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest 
are measured at amortised cost. The Group measures financial assets at 
amortised cost if both of the following conditions are met:
•  The financial asset is held within a business model with the objective 
to hold financial assets in order to collect contractual cash flows and
•  The contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates 
to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the 
principal amount outstanding. 
Financial assets at amortised cost are subsequently measured using the 
effective interest (EIR) method and are subject to impairment. Gains and 
losses are recognised in profit or loss when the asset is derecognised, 
modified or impaired.
The Group’s financial assets at amortised cost includes trade receivables 
and short term investments. 
Financial assets at fair value through OCI
Assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows and for 
selling the financial assets, where the assets’ cash flows represent solely 
payments of principal and interest, are measured at FVOCI. The Group 
measures debt instruments at fair value through OCI if both of the 
following conditions are met:
•  The financial asset is held within a business model with the objective 
of both holding to collect contractual cash flows and selling and;
•  The contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates 
to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the 
principal amount outstanding.
Movements in the carrying amount are taken through OCI, except for 
the recognition of impairment gains or losses, interest income and 
foreign exchange gains and losses which are recognised in profit or 
loss. When the financial asset is derecognised, the cumulative gain or 
loss previously recognised in OCI is reclassified from equity to profit or 
loss and recognised in other gains/(losses). Interest income from these 
financial assets is included in finance income using the effective interest 
rate method. Foreign exchange gains and losses are presented in other 
gains/(losses) and impairment expenses are presented as separate line 
item in the income statement. 
Equity Instruments
Financial assets designated at fair value through OCI
Upon initial recognition, the Group can elect to classify irrevocably its 
equity investments as financial assets at fair value through OCI when 
they meet the definition of equity under LKAS 32 Financial Instruments: 
Presentation and are not held for trading. The classification is determined 
on an instrument-by-instrument basis.
Gains and losses on these financial assets are never recycled to profit 
or loss. Dividends are recognised as other income in the statement of 
profit or loss when the right of payment has been established, except 
when the Group benefits from such proceeds as a recovery of part of the 
cost of the financial asset, in which case, such gains are recorded in OCI. 
Equity instruments designated at fair value through OCI are not subject 
to impairment assessment.
The Group elected to classify irrevocably its non-listed equity 
investments under this category.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include financial assets 
held for trading, financial assets designated upon initial recognition at 
fair value through profit or loss, or financial assets mandatorily required 
to be measured at fair value. Financial assets are classified as held for 
trading if they are acquired for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in 
the near term. Derivatives, including separated embedded derivatives, 
are also classified as held for trading unless they are designated as 
effective hedging instruments. Financial assets with cash flows that are 
not solely payments of principal and interest are classified and measured 
at fair value through profit or loss, irrespective of the business model. 
Notwithstanding the criteria for debt instruments to be classified at 
amortised cost or at fair value through OCI, as described above, debt 
instruments may be designated at fair value through profit or loss on 
initial recognition if doing so eliminates, or significantly reduces, an 
accounting mismatch.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are carried in the 
statement of financial position at fair value with net changes in fair value 
recognised in the statement of profit or loss.
This category includes derivative instruments and listed equity 
investments which the Group had not irrevocably elected to classify at 
fair value through OCI. Dividends on listed equity investments are also 
recognised as finance income in the statement of profit or loss when the 
right of payment has been established.
Dividends received from equity instruments have been disclosed in  
Note 17. 
Financial assets - derecognition
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash 
flows from the financial assets have expired or have been transferred 
and the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of 
ownership.

238 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Notes to the Financial Statements
Impairment of financial assets
The Group recognises an allowance for expected credit losses (ECLs) for 
all debt instruments not held at fair value through profit or loss. ECLs 
are based on the difference between the contractual cash flows due 
in accordance with the contract and all the cash flows that the Group 
expects to receive, discounted at the Group's effective interest rate. 
Based on the nature of the sector and the company, the Group is using 
appropriate and company specific LGD’s and PD’s when calculating the 
expected credit loss.
For trade receivables, the Group applies the simplified approach 
permitted by SLFRS 9, which requires expected lifetime losses to be 
recognised from initial recognition of the receivables. The Group has 
established a provision matrix that is based on its historical credit loss 
experience, adjusted for forward-looking factors specific to the debtors 
and the economic environment.
Financial Liabilities
Initial recognition and measurement
Financial liabilities are classified, at initial recognition, as financial 
liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, loans and borrowings, 
payables, or as derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an 
effective hedge, as appropriate.
All financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value and, in the 
case of loans and borrowings and payables, net of directly attributable 
transaction costs. 
The Group’s financial liabilities include trade and other payables, loans 
and borrowings including bank overdrafts, and derivative financial 
instruments.
Subsequent measurement
The measurement of financial liabilities depends on their classification, 
as described below:
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss include financial 
liabilities held for trading and financial liabilities designated upon initial 
recognition as at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial liabilities are classified as held for trading if they are incurred for 
the purpose of repurchasing in the near term. This category also includes 
derivative financial instruments entered into by the Group that are not 
designated as hedging instruments in hedge relationships as defined by 
SLFRS 9. Separated embedded derivatives are also classified as held for 
trading unless they are designated as effective hedging instruments.
Gains or losses on liabilities held for trading are recognised in the Income 
statement.
13. 
Financial instruments and related policies (Contd.)
13.1  Financial assets and liabilities by categories in accordance with SLFRS 9 - Group
Financial assets at  
amortised cost
Financial assets at fair value 
through OCI
As at 31 March
In Rs.‘000s
2022
2021
2022
2021
Financial instruments in non-current assets / non-current liabilities
Non-current financial assets/liabilities
 43,524,568 
54,880,163
 5,085,311 
 7,577,462 
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
 - 
 - 
 - 
-
Leases liabilities
-
-
-
-
Financial instruments in current assets / current liabilities
Trade and other receivables / payables
 27,495,348 
 17,456,698 
-
-
Amounts due from / due to related parties
 196,394 
 123,553 
-
-
Short term investments / Short term borrowings
104,099,055
 61,232,588 
1,866,971
 321,874 
Cash in hand and at bank
 52,376,531 
 19,432,579 
-
-
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
-
-
-
-
Leases liabilities
-
-
-
-
Other current financial liabilities
-
-
-
-
Bank overdrafts 
-
-
-
-
Total
227,691,896
153,125,581
6,952,282
 7,899,336 

239
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance       Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
Loans and borrowings
This is the category most relevant to the Group. After initial recognition, 
interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at 
amortised cost using the EIR method. Gains and losses are recognised in 
profit or loss when the liabilities are derecognised as well as through the 
EIR amortisation process.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or 
premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part of the 
EIR. The EIR amortisation is included as finance costs in the statement of 
profit or loss.
Derecognition
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the 
liability is discharged or cancelled or expires. When an existing 
financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on 
substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are 
substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as 
the derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new 
liability. The difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised 
in the Income statement.
Offsetting of financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is 
reported in the consolidated statement of financial position if there is a 
currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts and 
there is an intention to settle on a net basis, to realise the assets and 
settle the liabilities simultaneously.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting - Initial 
recognition and subsequent measurement
The Group uses derivative financial instruments, such as forward 
currency contracts, interest rate swaps and forward commodity 
contracts, to hedge its foreign currency risks, interest rate risks and 
commodity price risks, respectively. Such derivative financial instruments 
are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative 
contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value. 
Derivatives are carried as financial assets when the fair value is positive 
and as financial liabilities when the fair value is negative.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as:
• Fair value hedges when hedging the exposure to changes in the 
fair value of a recognised asset or liability or an unrecognised firm 
commitment
• Cash flow hedges when hedging the exposure to variability in cash 
flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a 
recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction 
or the foreign currency risk in an unrecognised firm commitment
• Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation.
Financial assets at fair value 
through profit or loss 
Total
Financial liabilities measured 
at amortised cost/fair value
2022
2021
2022
2021
2022
2021
 80,610 
 132,178 
 48,690,489 
 62,589,803 
 2,413,880 
 3,660,952 
 - 
-
 - 
 - 
 158,921,898 
 118,965,640 
-
-
-
-
30,066,952
 24,234,968 
-
-
 27,495,348 
17,456,698
 43,469,407 
 35,287,700 
-
-
 196,394 
 123,553 
 1,818 
 1,385 
4,755,518
 7,708,299 
 110,721,544 
 69,262,761 
 14,833,056 
 6,903,737
-
-
 52,376,531 
 19,432,579 
 - 
-
-
-
-
 - 
 40,624,448 
 9,507,473 
-
-
-
-
 3,459,496 
 1,472,297 
-
-
-
-
 - 
2,991,093
-
-
-
-
 20,321,777 
 11,820,179 
4,836,128
 7,840,477 
 239,480,306
168,865,394
 314,112,732 
 214,845,424 

240 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Notes to the Financial Statements
13. 
Financial instruments and related policies (Contd.)
13.2  Financial assets and liabilities by categories in accordance with SLFRS 9 - Company
Financial assets at  
amortised cost
Financial assets at fair value 
through OCI 
As at 31 March
In Rs.‘000s
2022
2021
2022
2021
 Financial instruments in non-current assets/non-current liabilities 
 Non-current financial assets 
 2,995,474 
 17,518,775 
87,563
 92,346
 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 
-
 - 
-
-
 Financial instruments in current assets/current liabilities 
 Trade and other receivables / payables 
103,914
 114,780 
-
-
 Amounts due from / due to related parties 
660,699
 1,465,816 
-
-
 Short term investments  / short term borrowings 
83,972,660
51,591,037
-
-
 Cash in hand and at bank 
27,362,010
 305,373 
-
-
 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 
-
-
-
-
 Bank overdrafts 
-
-
-
-
 Total 
115,094,757
 70,995,781
87,563
 92,346
13.3  Derivative financial instruments
GROUP
COMPANY
Contract notional 
amount In USD ‘000s
Fair value
In Rs.‘000s
Contract notional 
amount In USD ‘000s
Fair value
In Rs.‘000s
As at 31 March 
Cash-flow hedges
2022
2021
2022
2021
2022
2021
2022
2021
Interest rate swap - Derivative Liability
-
 129,500 
-
 413,466
-
 - 
-
 - 
Interest rate swap - Derivative Asset
100,000
 100,000 
2,928,815
 729,316 
100,000
 100,000 
2,928,815
 729,316 
The management assessed that, cash and short-term deposits, trade 
receivables, trade payables, bank overdrafts and other current financial 
liabilities approximate their carrying amounts largely due to the short-
term maturities of these instruments.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to 
transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants 
at the measurement date.
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate 
the fair values:
Fair value of quoted equities, debentures and bonds is based on price 
quotations in an active market at the reporting date
Accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions
Fair value of financial instruments
Where the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded 
in the statement of financial position cannot be derived from active 
markets, their fair value is determined using valuation techniques 
including the discounted cash flow model. The inputs to these models 
are taken from observable markets where possible.
The fair value of unquoted instruments, loans from banks and other 
financial liabilities, obligations under finance leases, as well as non-
current financial liabilities are estimated by discounting future cash flows 
using rates currently available for debt on similar terms, credit risk and 
remaining maturities.
Fair value of the unquoted ordinary shares has been estimated using a 
Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) model. The valuation requires management 
to make certain assumptions about the model inputs, including forecast 
cash flows, the discount rate, credit risk and volatility. The probabilities 
of the various estimates within the range can be reasonably assessed 
and are used in management’s estimate of fair value for these unquoted 
equity investments.
Where this is not feasible, a degree of judgement is required in 
establishing fair values. The judgements include considerations of inputs 
such as liquidity risk, credit risk and volatility. 

241
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance       Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
Total
Financial liabilities measured 
at amortised
2022
2021
2022
2021
3,083,037
 17,611,121
-
-
-
-
 64,634,033
 44,179,490
103,914
 114,780 
566,252
 372,711 
660,699
 1,465,816 
 20,912
 13,181 
 83,972,660
51,591,037
2,000,000
 - 
27,362,010
 305,373 
-
-
-
 - 
2,562,994
 3,007,368 
-
 - 
2,939,311
9,783
115,182,320
 71,088,127
72,723,502
 47,582,533
Notes to the Income Statement, Statement of Comprehensive 
Income and Statement of Financial Position
14.  
Revenue
Accounting policy
14.1  Total revenue
14.1.1 Revenue from contract with customers
Revenue from contracts with customers is recognised when control of 
the goods or services is transferred to the customer at an amount that 
reflects the consideration to which the Group expects to be entitled in 
exchange for those goods or services.
Goods transferred at a point in time
Under SLFRS 15, revenue is recognised upon satisfaction of a 
performance obligation. The revenue recognition occurs at a point in 
time when control of the asset is transferred to the customer, generally, 
on delivery of the goods. 
Services transferred over time
Under SLFRS 15, the Group determines, at contract inception, whether it 
satisfies the performance obligation over time or at a point in time. For 
each performance obligation satisfied over time, the Group recognises 
the revenue over time by measuring the progress towards complete 
satisfaction of that performance obligation. 
14.1.2 Revenue from insurance contracts
Revenue from insurance contracts comprise of gross written premiums 
net of premium ceded to reinsurers.
14.2  Disaggregation of revenue 
The Group presented disaggregated revenue with Group’s reportable 
segments based on timing of revenue recognition and geographical 
region in the operating segment information section.
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
In Rs.‘000s
Note
2022
2021
2022
2021
Timing of revenue recognition
Goods transferred at a point in time
 179,095,601 
 105,427,158 
 - 
-
Services transferred over time
 23,753,574 
 9,027,325 
 1,875,722 
 1,637,063 
Total revenue from contracts with customers
14.1.1
 202,849,175 
 114,454,483 
 1,875,722 
 1,637,063 
Revenue from insurance contracts 
14.1.2
 15,225,571 
 13,221,167 
 - 
 - 
Total revenue
 218,074,746 
 127,675,650 
 1,875,722 
 1,637,063 
For the better understanding of the Industry segment revenue, please refer Note 8.3 - 8.5 Business Segment analysis - Disaggregation of revenue.

242 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Notes to the Financial Statements
Contract balances
Performance obligations 
satisfied
As at / for the year ended 31 March
In Rs.‘000s
Note
2022
2021
2022
2021
Contract assets
-
-
1,297
2,032
Contract liabilities
 Other non current liabilities
40
 73,760 
19,386,170
20,919,960
1,144,265
 Trade and other payables
41
 123,166 
 112,665 
341,266
 219,701 
 Other current liabilities
43
 2,093,394 
758,085
3,355
2,581
 2,290,320 
20,256,920
21,264,581
1,366,547
14.  
Revenue (Contd.) 
14.3  Reconciliation of revenue 
Reconciliation between Revenue from contracts with customers 
and revenue for each reportable segment has been provided in the 
operating segment information section.
14.4  Contract balances
Contract assets
Contract assets are the Group’s right to consideration in exchange for 
goods or services that the Group has transferred to a customer, with 
rights that are conditional on some criteria other than the passage of 
time. Upon satisfaction of the conditions, the amounts recognised as 
contract assets are reclassified to trade receivables.
Contract liabilities
Contract liabilities are the Group's obligation to transfer goods or 
services to a customer for which the Group has received consideration 
(or the amount is due) from the customer. Contract liabilities include 
long-term advances received to deliver goods and services, short-term 
advances received to render certain services as well as transaction price 
allocated to unexpired service warranties, and loyalty points not yet 
redeemed.
14.5  Performance obligations and significant judgements
The Group’s performance obligations and significant judgements are 
summarised below:
Transportation
This operating segment provides an array of transportation related 
services, which primarily include a marine bunkering business, shipping, 
logistics and air transportation multinationals as well as travel and airline 
services. In providing airline services, net revenue is recognised at a point 
in time upon the sale of tickets as the entity is deemed as the agent. 
Total transaction price is comprised of cost and commission which is 
equal to the total ticketing service fee.
In providing Marine Services, the principal activity of the entity is to 
supply bunker services to their customers, in exchange for a bunker 
fee. The performance obligation can be termed as bunkering services. 
Revenue is recognised at a point in time, upon supply of the bunker to 
the vessels. Transaction price shall comprise of cost and mark up which 
is equal to total bunkering fee.
Consumer Foods 
Consumer Foods segment focuses on manufacturing of a wide range 
of beverages, frozen confectionary, processed meat and dairy products. 
Revenue is recognised at the point in time when the control of the asset 
is transferred to the customer, which is generally upon delivery of the 
goods. Revenue is measured based on actual sales, and therefore the 
output method is used for revenue recognition.
Retail
The Retail segment focuses on modern organised retailing through 
a chain of supermarkets. The office automation business comprises 
of distribution of printers, copiers, smart phones and other office 
automation equipment.
Revenue is recognised upon satisfaction of a performance obligation. 
The revenue recognition occurs at a point in time when control of the 
asset is transferred to the customer, which is generally upon delivery 
of the goods. The output method will provide a faithful depiction in 
recognising revenue. 
Customers who purchase from outlets may enter the entity’s customer 
loyalty programme and earn points that are redeemable against future 
purchases of the entity’s products. The entity will allocate a portion 
of the transaction price to the loyalty programme based on relative 
standalone selling price.
Leisure 
Leisure segment comprises of city hotels, resort hotels, as well as 
destination management business.
The revenue for providing the services are usually recognised at or 
after the guests' departure, over the period of stay or at the point of 
arrival of guests. The entity identifies the services under each contract 
as one performance obligation. The revenue is accounted based on 
the output method. Since revenue will be based on the final good or 
service provided, the output method will provide a faithful depiction in 
recognising revenue. 
In providing destination management services, the entity acts as the 
principal. Customer receives and consumes the benefits of the entity's 
performance, as and when the service is performed. Therefore, revenue 
is recognised at gross over the period, based on the output method. 
The timing and the amount of cashflow will vary according to the 
agreements.
Transaction price shall comprise of supplier fee and company mark-up, 
summing up to be the Gross Service fee. The advance payments are 
recognised as a liability. Upon provision of the services, the liability is set 
off and revenue is recognised over the period. 

243
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance       Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
Property
Property segment concentrates primarily on property development, 
renting of commercial office spaces,selling condomoniums and 
management of the Group’s real estate.
At inception of the contract, the entity determines whether it satisfies 
the performance obligation over time or at a point in time. Timing and 
amount of cashflow will be determined according to the agreement.
Financial Services
Financial Services provides a complete range of financial solutions 
including commercial banking, insurance, stock broking, debt trading, 
fund management and leasing. The services under one contract can be 
identified as one performance obligation.
Entity determines at contract inception whether it satisfies the 
performance obligation over time or at a point in time. For each 
performance obligation satisfied overtime, the entity recognises the 
revenue over time by measuring the progress towards complete 
satisfaction of that performance obligation. The output method will 
provide a faithful depiction in recognising revenue. 
Others
Others represents companies in the Plantation Industry, Information 
Technology, Management and Investments companies. The main 
streams of revenue; Management fees, BPO service fees and Consultancy 
fees, are recognised over a period of time, depending on service level 
agreements. 
Some contracts include multiple deliverables. Where the contracts 
include multiple performance obligations, the transaction price will 
be allocated to each performance obligation based on the stand-
alone selling prices. Where these are not directly observable, they are 
estimated based on expected cost plus margin.
Remaining performance obligations
The Group applies the practical expedient and does not disclose the 
amount of the transaction price allocated to the remaining performance 
obligations and an explanation of when the Group expects to recognise 
that amount as revenue for the year ended 31 March 2022.
15.  
Dividend income 
Accounting policy 
Dividend
Dividend income is recognised when right to receive the payment is established.
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
In Rs.‘000s
2022
2021
Dividend income from investments in subsidiaries and equity accounted investees
 8,007,649
 8,346,260
16.  
Other operating income and other operating expenses 
Accounting policy 
Gains and losses
Net gains and losses of a revenue nature arising from the disposal of 
property, plant and equipment and other non-current assets, including 
investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, are accounted 
in the income statement, after deducting from the proceeds on disposal, 
the carrying amount of such assets and the related selling expenses.
Gains and losses arising from activities incidental to the main revenue 
generating activities and those arising from a group of similar 
transactions, which are not material are aggregated, reported and 
presented on a net basis.
Any losses arising from guaranteed rentals are accounted for, in the 
year of incurring the same. A provision is recognised if the projection 
indicates a loss.
Other income and expenses
Other income and expenses are recognised on an accrual basis.
16.1  Other operating income
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
2022
2021
2022
2021
In Rs.'000s
Promotional income and commission fee
 1,432,800 
 1,373,842 
-
 - 
Exchange gains
 - 
267,100
-
 - 
Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment
62,198
 - 
 2,532 
 - 
Write back of dealer deposits
 11,163 
 17,761 
-
 - 
Sundry income
1,108,632
967,841
 48,812 
 40,610 
 2,614,793 
 2,626,544 
 51,344 
 40,610 

244 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Notes to the Financial Statements
16.  
Other operating income and other operating expenses (Contd.) 
16.2  Other operating expenses 
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
2022
2021
2022
2021
In Rs.'000s
Provision for impairment
4,886,733
 69,660 
 506,246 
 - 
Loss on sale of property, plan and equipment
-
6,005
-
-
Heat, light and power
 800,684 
 472,037 
 - 
 - 
Exchange loss
 5,738,298 
 - 
 - 
-
Other overheads
1,030,293
 766,707 
 8,232 
 21,473 
12,456,008
 1,314,409 
 514,478 
 21,473 
The Group has recognised Rs.4.7 Bn impairment as the value in use of South Asia Gateway Terminals (Pvt) Ltd was lower than the carrying value of the 
investment. 
The Company has recognized Rs.506 Mn impairment for Saffron Aviation (Pvt) Ltd as the value in use of the investment is lower than its carrying value.
17. 
Net finance income 
Accounting policy 
Finance income
Finance income comprises of interest income on funds invested 
dividend income, gains on the disposal of fair value through OCI 
financial assets, fair value gains on financial assets at fair value through 
profit or loss, gains on the remeasurement to fair value of any pre-
existing interest in an acquiree that are recognised in the income 
statement.
Interest income is recorded as it accrues using the effective interest 
rate (EIR), which is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future 
cash receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument or 
a shorter period, where appropriate, to the net carrying amount of the 
financial asset. Interest income is included in finance income in the 
income statement.
Finance costs
Finance costs comprise interest expense on borrowings, unwinding of 
the discount on provisions, losses on disposal of fair value through OCI 
financial assets, fair value losses on financial assets at fair value through 
profit or loss, impairment losses recognised on financial assets (other 
than trade receivables) that are recognised in the income statement.
Interest expense is recorded as it accrues using the effective interest 
rate (EIR), which is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future 
cash payments through the expected life of the financial instrument or 
a shorter period, where appropriate, to the net carrying amount of the 
financial liability.
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or 
production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time 
to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost 
of the respective assets. All other borrowing costs are expensed in the 
period they occur. Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs 
that the Group incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds.
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
2022
2021
2022
2021
In Rs.'000s
Net finance income 
Finance income
Interest income
 11,754,077 
 8,616,055 
 5,570,988 
 2,964,036 
Dividend income on
 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
 147,739 
 136,895 
 - 
 - 
 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income
 5,143 
 17,214 
 - 
 11,385 
Realised gains on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
 361,571 
-
 - 
-
Unrealised gains on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
 - 
 351,012 
 - 
 - 
Investment related direct expenses
 (89,645)
 (74,362)
 - 
 - 
Exchange gains
 18,627,294 
 1,641,908 
 18,627,294 
 1,641,908 
Total finance income
 30,806,179 
 10,688,722 
 24,198,282 
 4,617,329 

245
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance       Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
2022
2021
2022
2021
In Rs.'000s
Finance cost
Interest expense on borrowings
 (5,199,990)
 (2,891,345)
 (2,966,139)
 (1,244,941)
Finance charge on lease liabilities
 (1,511,437)
 (1,503,908)
 - 
 - 
Realised loss on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
 - 
 (273,953)
 - 
 - 
Unrealised loss on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
 (323,330)
-
 - 
-
Total finance cost
 (7,034,757)
 (4,669,206)
 (2,966,139)
 (1,244,941)
Net finance income
 23,771,422 
 6,019,516 
 21,232,143 
 3,372,388 
18. 
Profit before tax 
 Accounting policy 
Expenditure recognition
Expenses are recognised in the income statement on the basis of a 
direct association between the cost incurred and the earning of specific 
items of income. All expenditure incurred in the running of the business 
and in maintaining the property, plant and equipment in a state of 
efficiency has been charged to the income statement.
For the purpose of presentation of the income statement, the “function 
of expenses” method has been adopted, on the basis that it presents 
fairly the elements of the Company’s and Group’s performance.
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
2022
2021
2022
2021
In Rs.'000s
Profit before tax 
Profit before tax is stated after charging all expenses including the following;
Remuneration to executive directors
391,034
 346,453 
 106,238 
 103,808 
Remuneration to non executive directors
45,795
 34,749 
 15,960 
 11,460 
Costs of defined employee benefits
  Defined benefit plan cost
 400,450 
 438,382 
22,766
 21,709 
  Defined contribution plan cost - EPF and ETF
1,182,147
1,068,968
 72,880 
 56,332 
Other long term employee benefits cost
 183,704 
 213,027 
42,891
 44,043 
Staff expenses
15,568,605
13,621,362
 587,596 
 476,165 
Share based payments
204,618
225,007
 61,117 
 66,035 
Auditors’ remuneration
 Audit
52,604
49,352
7,048
6,712
 Non-audit
10,733
6,202
4,565
1,018
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment
 5,014,204 
 4,725,534 
 38,590 
 42,629 
Amortisation of intangible assets
703,906
 641,563 
 33,324 
 30,631 
Amortisation of right of use assets
2,841,789
 2,619,179 
 - 
 - 
Provision for impairment 
4,886,733
69,660
506,246
 - 
(Gain) / Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
(62,198)
 6,005
 (2,532)
 - 
Donations
8,511
7,074
3,386
 5,000 
19. 
Earnings per share
Accounting policy
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to 
ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number 
of ordinary shares outstanding during the year. Diluted EPS is calculated 
by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the 
parent (after adjusting for outstanding share options) by the weighted 
average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year plus 
the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued 
on conversion of all the dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary 
shares.

246 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Notes to the Financial Statements
19.1  Basic earnings per share
GROUP
For the year ended 31 March
Note
2022
2021
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent
 20,212,968 
 4,772,100 
Weighted average number of ordinary shares
19.3
1,336,027
1,318,805
Basic earnings per share
15.13
 3.62 
19.2  Diluted earnings per share 
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent
 20,212,968 
 4,772,100 
Adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares 
19.3
1,336,427
1,318,805
Diluted earnings per share
15.12
 3.62 
19.3  Amount used as denominator 
GROUP
For the year ended 31 March
Number of shares 
In '000s
2022
2021
Ordinary shares at the beginning of the year
 1,319,664
 1,318,551 
Effect of share options exercised 
103
254
Private placement of ordinary shares
16,260
-
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue before dilution
1,336,027
1,318,805
Effects of dilution from:
 Share option scheme
400 
 - 
Adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares
1,336,427
1,318,805
20.  
Dividend per share
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
2022
2021
Rs
In Rs.‘000s
Rs
In Rs.‘000s
Equity dividend on ordinary shares declared and paid during the year
Final dividend (Previous years’ final dividend paid in the current year)
0.50
 659,869 
-
 - 
Interim dividends
1.00
 1,352,323 
 1.50 
 1,978,317 
Total dividend
1.50
 2,012,192 
 1.50 
 1,978,317 
21.  
Taxes
Accounting policy 
Current tax
Current tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are 
measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to 
the taxation authorities. The tax rates and tax laws used to compute 
the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted, at the 
reporting date in the countries where the Group operates and generates 
taxable income.
Current income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is 
recognised in equity and for items recognised in other comprehensive 
income shall be recognised in other comprehensive income and not in 
the income statement. Management periodically evaluates positions 
taken in the tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable 
tax regulations are subject to interpretation and establishes provisions 
where appropriate.
Management has used its judgment on the application of tax laws 
including transfer pricing regulations involving identification of 
associated undertakings, estimation of the respective arm’s length prices 
and selection of appropriate pricing mechanisms.
The Group has complied with the arm’s length principles relating to 
transfer pricing as prescribed in the Inland Revenue Act.
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is provided using the liability method on temporary 
differences at the reporting date between the tax bases of assets and 
liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.

247
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance       Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary 
differences, except:
•  Where the deferred tax liability arising from the initial recognition of 
goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business 
combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the 
accounting profit nor the taxable profit or loss; and
• In respect of taxable temporary differences associated with 
investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, 
where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be 
controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not 
reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, 
and unused tax credits and tax losses carried forward, to the extent 
that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the 
deductible temporary differences and the unused tax credits and tax 
losses carried forward can be utilised except:
• Where the deferred income tax assets relating to the deductible 
temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or 
liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the 
time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable 
profit or loss; and 
• In respect of deducible temporary differences associated with 
investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, 
deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable 
that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future 
and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary 
differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each 
reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable 
that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the 
deferred tax asset to be utilised. Unrecognised deferred tax assets are 
reassessed at each reporting date and are recognised to the extent that 
it has become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred 
tax asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at tax rates that are 
expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or liability is 
settled, based on the tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or 
substantively enacted as at the reporting date.
Deferred tax relating to items recognised outside the income statement 
is recognised outside the income statement. Deferred tax items are 
recognised in correlation to the underlying transaction either in other 
comprehensive income or directly in equity.
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset, if a legally 
enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current tax 
liabilities and when the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity 
and the same taxation authority.
No deferred tax asset or liability has been recognised in the companies 
which are enjoying the Board of Investment (BOI) tax holiday period, if 
there are no qualifying assets or liabilities beyond the tax holiday period.
 Sales tax
Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of sales 
tax except:
• Where the sales tax incurred on the purchase of an asset or service is 
not recoverable from the taxation authority, in which case the sales 
tax is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as 
part of the expense item as applicable; and
• Where receivables and payables are stated with the amount of sales 
tax included.
The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation 
authority is included as part of receivables or payables in the statement 
of financial position.
IFRIC interpretation 23 uncertainty over income tax treatment 
The Interpretation addresses the accounting for income taxes when 
tax treatments involve uncertainty that affects the application of LKAS 
12 Income Taxes. It does not apply to taxes or levies outside the scope 
of LKAS 12, nor does it specifically include requirements relating to 
interest and penalties associated with uncertain tax treatments. The 
Interpretation specifically addresses the following: 
•  Whether an entity considers uncertain tax treatments separately 
•  The assumptions an entity makes about the examination of tax 
treatments by taxation authorities 
•  How an entity determines taxable profit (tax loss), tax bases, unused tax 
losses, unused tax credits and tax rates 
•  How an entity considers changes in facts and circumstances 
The Group determines whether to consider each uncertain tax 
treatment separately or together with one or more other uncertain tax 
treatments and uses the approach that better predicts the resolution of 
the uncertainty.
The Group applies significant judgement in identifying uncertainties 
over income tax treatments. Since the Group operates in a complex 
environment, it assessed whether the Interpretation had an impact on its 
consolidated financial statements.
Upon adoption of the Interpretation, the Group considered whether it 
has any uncertain tax positions and Group determined that it is probable 
that its tax treatments (including those for the subsidiaries) will be 
accepted by the taxation authorities. The Interpretation did not have an 
impact on the consolidated financial statements of the Group. 

248 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Notes to the Financial Statements
Temporary differences associated with the undistributed reserves in 
subsidiaries for which a deferred tax liability has not been recognised, 
amounts to Rs.2,846 Mn (2021 - Rs.2,880 Mn). The deferred tax effect on 
undistributed reserves of subsidiaries has not been recognised since 
the parent can control the timing of the reversal of these temporary 
differences.
Surcharge tax 
Surcharge Tax Act No. 14 of 2022 was enacted on 8 April 2022 and is 
applicable to the John Keells Group as the collective taxable income of 
21.  
Taxes (Contd.)
21.1  Tax expense 
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
2022
2021
2022
2021
In Rs.'000s
Income statement
Current tax charge
21.5
 3,252,722 
 2,169,340 
1,060,725
801,201
 (Over)/Under provision of current tax of previous years
 (45,384)
 (46,189)
 - 
-
 Irrecoverable economic service charge 
21.7
 245,821 
 163,682 
 - 
 - 
Deferred tax charge/(reversal)
 Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences
21.2
 3,428,427 
 (792,558)
 2,841,984 
 - 
21.6
 6,881,586 
 1,494,275 
3,902,709
801,201
Other comprehensive income
Deferred tax charge/(reversal)
 Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences
21.2 
 806,930 
 135,306
 - 
-
 806,930 
135,306
 - 
-
21.2  Deferred tax expense
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
2022
2021
2022
2021
In Rs.'000s
Income statement
Deferred tax expense arising from;
 Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes
 330,241 
 31,487 
 2,027 
 - 
 Revaluation of investment property to fair value
 580,930 
 (212,179)
 - 
 - 
 Retirement benefit obligations
 (106,150)
 71,433 
 (74,337)
 - 
 Benefit arising from tax losses
 (578,916)
 (626,830)
 (295,313)
 - 
 Unrealised capital gains/others
 3,202,322 
 (56,469)
 3,209,607 
 - 
Deferred tax charged/(reversal) directly to Income Statement
 3,428,427 
 (792,558)
 2,841,984 
 - 
Other comprehensive income
Deferred tax expense arising from;
 Actuarial losses on defined benefit obligations
 7,723 
 (19,781)
 - 
 - 
 Revaluation of land and building to fair value
 799,207 
 155,087 
 - 
 - 
Deferred tax charged/(reversal) directly to OCI
 806,930 
 135,306
 - 
-
companies belonging to the Group, calculated in accordance with the 
provisions of the Inland Revenue Act No. 24 of 2017, exceeds  
Rs.2,000 Mn, for the year of assessment 2020/2021. The liability is 
computed at the rate of 25 per cent on the taxable income of the 
individual Group companies, net of dividends from subsidiaries.
As the Act was certified by the Speaker of Parliament after the financial 
reporting date, no liability has been recognized in FY 2021/2022 on 
account of the one-off Surcharge Tax as the law had not been enacted 
as at 31 March 2022. 

249
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance       Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
21.3  Income tax liabilities
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2022
2021
2022
2021
In Rs.'000s
At the beginning of the year
 1,988,170 
 1,747,597 
 717,029 
 389,510 
Charge for the year
 3,150,020 
 1,880,815 
1,056,425
 801,201 
Payments and set off against refunds
 (2,519,636)
 (1,640,242)
(892,485)
 (473,682)
At the end of the year
 2,618,554 
 1,988,170 
 880,969 
 717,029 
21.4  Deferred tax 
GROUP
COMPANY
 ASSETS
LIABILITIES
LIABILITIES
As at 31 March
In Rs.‘000s
2022
2021
2022
2021
2022
2021
At the beginning of the year
 1,089,027 
 902,382 
 7,720,111 
 8,294,955 
 - 
-
Charge and release
 65,373 
 136,159 
 4,294,991 
 (574,844)  2,841,984 
-
Transfers / exchange differences 
 400,038 
 50,486 
 1,302 
 - 
-
-
At the end of the year
 1,554,438 
 1,089,027  12,016,404 
 7,720,111 
 2,841,984 
-
The closing deferred tax asset and liability balances relate to the following;
Revaluation of land and building to fair value
 (69,843)
 (24,215)  5,020,124 
 4,684,580 
 - 
-
Revaluation of investment property to fair value
 (3,670)
 8,735 
 1,386,639 
 876,082 
 - 
-
Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes
118,501
 172,231 
 2,876,236 
 2,625,177 
 2,027 
-
Employee benefit liability
83,723
 35,783 
 (650,536)
 (553,452)
 (74,337)
-
Losses available for offset against future taxable income
 1,371,347 
 971,047 
 (670,011)
 (313,715)
 (295,313)
-
Net gain/loss on fair value through OCI
-
 (35,956)
 - 
 - 
-
-
Unrealised capital gains/others
54,380
 (38,598)  4,053,952 
 401,439 
 3,209,607 
-
 1,554,438 
 1,089,027  12,016,404 
 7,720,111 
 2,841,984 
-
A deferred tax liability for the Group amounting to Rs.955 Mn (2021 
– Rs.490 Mn) has been recognised based on the impact of declared 
dividends of subsidiaries and the Group’s portion of distributable 
reserves of equity accounted investees.
Accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions 
The Group is subject to income tax and other taxes including VAT. 
Significant judgement was required to determine the total provision for 
current, deferred and other taxes due to uncertainties that exist with 
respect to the interpretation of the applicability of tax law at the time of 
the preparation of these financial statements.
Uncertainties also exist with respect to the interpretation of complex tax 
regulations and the amount and timing of future taxable income. 
Given the wide range of business relationships and the long-term 
nature and complexity of existing contractual agreements, differences 
arising between the actual results and the assumptions made, or future 
changes to such assumptions, could necessitate future adjustments to 
tax income and expense already recorded. Where the final tax outcome 
of such matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, 
such differences will impact the income and deferred tax amounts in the 
period in which the determination is made.
The Group has contingent tax liability amounting to Rs.1,588 Mn 
(2021 - Rs.1,999Mn). These have been arrived at after discussing with 
independent legal and tax experts and based on information available. 
All assumptions are revisited as of the reporting date. 
The total Surcharge Tax liability of Rs.1,648 Mn and Rs.525 Mn will be 
recognized in the financial statements of FY 2022/2023 for the Group 
and the Company, respectively, as an adjustment to the 1 April 2021 
retained earnings in the statement of Changes in Equity as per the 
Statement of Alternative Treatment (SoAT) issued by The Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka. 
On 20 April 2022, the Group and the Company paid Rs.824 Mn and 
Rs.263 Mn respectively, on account of the first instalment of the 
Surcharge Tax liability with the balance payable on 20 July 2022. 

250 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Notes to the Financial Statements
21.  
Taxes (Contd.) 
21.5 Reconciliation between current tax charge and the accounting profit 
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
2022
2021
2022
2021
In Rs.'000s
Profit before tax
 27,324,493 
 5,445,166 
 28,284,116 
 11,367,088 
Dividend income from Group companies
 9,137,197 
 9,342,572 
 - 
 - 
Share of results of equity accounted investees (net of tax)
 (1,898,298)
 (4,158,793)
 - 
 - 
Other consolidation adjustments
 (846,612)
 7,965 
 - 
 - 
Profit after adjustments
 33,716,780 
 10,636,910 
 28,284,116 
 11,367,088 
Exempt profits
 (6,286,616)
 (2,385,008)
 (5,498,173)
 (2,887,711)
Income not liable for income tax
 (18,757,988)
 (1,573,563)
 (18,590,437)
 (1,568,812)
Resident dividend
 (675,773)
 (4,430,382)
 (675,773)
 (1,711,746)
Adjusted accounting profit chargeable to income taxes
 7,996,403 
 2,247,957
 3,519,732
 5,198,819 
Disallowable expenses
 13,928,603 
 12,349,659 
 3,019,903 
 1,215,376 
Allowable expenses
 (16,234,485)
 (11,977,525)
 (515,449)
 (252,858)
Utilisation of tax losses
 (3,500,880)
 (2,657,979)
-
-
Current year tax losses not utilised
 2,268,887 
 7,379,636 
-
-
Tax effect on investment income 
2,209,342
-
 2,209,341 
-
Qualifying payment deductions
 (1,931)
 (909)
 (1,330)
 (15,852)
Taxable income
 6,665,939 
 7,340,839
 8,232,198 
 6,145,485 
Income tax charged at:
 Standard rate 
 1,475,821 
 603,116 
 220,934 
 801,201 
 Other concessionary rates 
 1,776,901 
1,566,224
 839,791 
- 
Current tax charge
 3,252,722 
2,169,340
 1,060,725 
 801,201 
21.6 Reconciliation between tax expense and the product of accounting profit 
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
2022
2021
2022
2021
In Rs.'000s
Adjusted accounting profit chargeable to income taxes
 7,996,403
2,247,957
 3,519,732
 5,198,819 
Tax effect on chargeable profits
 3,300,879 
 1,329,595 
 492,762 
 727,834 
Tax effect on non deductible expenses
 224,480 
 299,187 
77,067
 41,831 
Tax effect on deductions claimed
 (528,582)
(408,463)
 (65,635)
 (2,219)
Net tax effect of unrecognised deferred tax assets for the year
2,866,687
 (144,843)
 3,177,581 
 33,755 
Net tax effect of unrecognised deferred tax assets for prior years
 - 
 13,106 
 - 
 - 
Under/(over) provision for previous years
 (45,384)
 (46,189)
-
Deferred tax due to carried forward tax losses
 117,460 
 545,981 
 - 
 - 
Deferred tax due to rate differentials
 (16,087)
 (257,781)
 - 
 - 
Other income based taxes:
 - 
 
  Irrecoverable economic service charge 
 245,821 
163,682
 - 
 - 
  Tax effect on investment income
 220,934 
-
 220,934 
 - 
Deferred tax on affiliated companies dividend reserve
495,378
-
-
-
Tax expense
 6,881,586
 1,494,275
 3,902,709 
 801,201 
Group tax expense is based on the taxable profit of individual companies within the Group. At present the tax laws of Sri Lanka do not provide for 
Group taxation.

251
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance       Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
21.9 Applicable rates of income tax 
The tax liability of resident companies are computed at the standard rate of 24% except for the following companies which enjoy full or partial 
exemptions and concessions.
Company / Sector
Basis
Exemptions 
or 
concessions
Period
Exemptions / concessions granted under the Inland Revenue Act and BOI 
John Keells Properties Ja-Ela (Pvt) Ltd 
New undertaking engaged in construction of 
commercial buildings
Exempt
9 years from 1st April 2015
Saffron Aviation (Pvt) Ltd
Domestic airline 
- do -
8 years from 1st year of profit or 2 
years from operations 
Sancity Hotels & Properties Ltd (Subsidiary of 
Capitol Hotel Holdings (Pvt) Ltd)
Construction and operation of a tourist hotel
- do -
12 years from 1st year of profit or 2 
years from operations 
John Keells Information Technology (Pvt) Ltd
Information technology services 
- do -
Open ended
John Keells International (Pvt) Ltd
Exporting services 
- do -
- do -
Infomate (Pvt) Ltd
Exporting services 
- do -
- do -
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC
Foreign sourced income
- do -
- do -
John Keells Office Automation (Pvt) Ltd
Off shore business income
- do -
- do -
Tea Smallholder Factories PLC
Agro Processing
14%
- do -
Lanka Marine Services (Pvt) Ltd
Qualified export profits 
- do -
- do -
Leisure sector 
Promotion of tourism 
- do -
- do -
Mackinnons Mackenzie shipping (Pvt) Ltd 
Shipping agent
- do -
- do -
Consumer Foods sector
Manufacturing
18%
Open ended
21.7  Economic Service Charge (ESC)
GROUP
For the year ended 31 March
2022
2021
In Rs.'000s
Irrecoverable Economic Service Charge (ESC) 
245,821
 163,682 
 245,821
 163,682 
21.8 Tax losses carried forward
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
2022
2021
2022
2021
In Rs.'000s
Tax losses brought forward
 11,302,534 
 6,643,853 
 1,230,471 
 1,230,471 
Adjustments on finalisation of liability
 189,281 
 (113,857)
 - 
 - 
Tax losses arising during the year
 6,486,569 
 7,430,517 
 - 
 - 
Utilisation of tax losses
 (1,820,782)
 (2,657,979)
 - 
 - 
 16,157,602 
11,302,534
 1,230,471 
 1,230,471 
The Group has tax losses amounting to Rs.16,158 Mn (2021 - Rs.11,303 Mn) are available to offset against future taxable profits of the companies in 
which the tax losses arose.

252 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Notes to the Financial Statements
22. 
Property, plant and equipment 
Accounting policy 
Basis of recognition
Property, plant and equipment are recognised if it is probable that future 
economic benefits associated with the asset will flow to the Group and 
the cost of the asset can be reliably measured.
Basis of measurement
Property, plant and equipment except for land and buildings are stated 
at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment 
loss. Such cost includes the cost of replacing component parts of the 
21.  
Taxes (Contd.) 
21.9 Applicable rates of income tax (Contd.) 
21.10 Income tax rates of off-shore subsidiaries
Country of incorporation
Company
Rate
India
John Keells Foods India (Pvt) Ltd
30.9%
Mauritius
John Keells BPO Holdings (Pvt) Ltd
3%(Effective)
John Keells BPO International (Pvt) Ltd
3%(Effective)
Republic of Maldives
Fantasea World Investments (Pte) Ltd
15%
Tranquility (Pte) Ltd
15%
Travel Club (Pte) Ltd
15%
John Keells Maldivian Resorts (Pte) Ltd
15%
Mack Air Services Maldives (Pte) Ltd
15%
Singapore
John Keells Singapore (Pte) Ltd
17% (Max)
Company / Sector
Basis
Exemptions 
or 
concessions
Period
Asian Hotels and Properties PLC
Construction and operation of office, apartment 
complex and a hotel
2% of 
turnover
15 years from 1 April 2014
Beruwala Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
Construction and operation of a tourist hotel
Exempt
8 years from 1 year of profit or 2 
years from operations
John Keells Logistics (Pvt) Ltd (Sites covered 
by the BOI agreement)
Warehousing
- do -
- do -
Waterfront Properties (Pvt) Ltd
Integrated super luxury tourist resort
Exempt
10 years from 1st year of profit or 3 
years from operations
Capital gains from sale of listed shares are exempted from chargeability to income tax. Income/profits from offshore dividends and interest are 
exempt from income tax. Effective from 1 January 2020, exemption is available on interest income earned in foreign currency denominated accounts 
opened with the approval of the Central Bank, gains and profits from services rendered in or outside Sri lanka to be utilised outside Sri Lanka where 
the payments is received in foreign currency through a bank in Sri lanka and dividend received from another resident company is subject to income 
tax at a concessionary rate of 14% and an exemption on dividend paid by a resident company to a member to the extent that dividend payment is 
attributable to, or derived from, another dividend received by that resident. 
plant and equipment and borrowing costs for long-term construction 
projects if the recognition criteria are met. When significant parts of 
plant and equipment are required to be replaced at intervals, the Group 
derecognises the replaced part, and recognises the new part with its 
own associated useful life and depreciation. Likewise, when a major 
inspection is performed, its cost is recognised in the carrying amount of 
the plant and equipment as a replacement if the recognition criteria are 
satisfied. All other repair and maintenance costs are recognised in the 
income statement as incurred.

253
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance       Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
Borrowing costs 
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction 
or production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of 
time to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the 
cost of the asset. All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period 
in which they occur. Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs 
that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds.
Impairment of property plant and equipment
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication 
that an asset may be impaired. If any such indication exists, or when 
annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group makes 
an estimate of the asset’s recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable 
amount is the higher of an asset’s or cash generating unit’s fair value 
less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual 
asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely 
independent of those from other assets or groups of assets. Where the 
carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset 
is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount. 
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted 
to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current 
market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to 
the asset. Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement, 
except that, impairment losses in respect of property, plant and 
equipment previously revalued are recognised against the revaluation 
reserve through the statement of other comprehensive income to the 
extent that it reverses a previous revaluation surplus.
Businesses continued to respond with specific plans to enable 
smooth and uninterrupted functioning of businesses and operations, 
despite some of the immediate term challenges due to constraints on 
supply chains and electricity and fuel disruptions, whilst maintaining 
strict adherence to Government directives and health and safety 
considerations. The Group managed to circumvent these issues without 
a significant impact on output. As such, the Group has not determined 
impairment as at the reporting date.
An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is 
any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no 
longer exist or may have decreased. If such an indication exists, the 
recoverable amount is estimated. A previously recognised impairment 
loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used 
to determine the asset’s recoverable amount since the last impairment 
loss was recognised. If that is the case, the carrying amount of the asset 
is increased to its recoverable amount. That increased amount cannot 
exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of 
depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in 
prior years. Such reversal is recognised in the income statement unless 
the asset is carried at revalued amount, in which case the reversal is 
treated as a revaluation increase. After such a reversal, the depreciation 
charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate the asset’s revised 
carrying amount, less any residual value, on a systematic basis over its 
remaining useful life.
Land and buildings are measured at fair value less accumulated 
depreciation on buildings and impairment charged subsequent to the 
date of the revaluation.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for 
impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the 
carrying value may not be recoverable.
Any revaluation surplus is recognised in other comprehensive income 
and accumulated in equity under the asset revaluation reserve, except 
to the extent that it reverses a revaluation decrease of the same asset 
previously recognised in the income statement, in which case the 
increase is recognised in the income statement.  
A revaluation deficit is recognised in the income statement, except 
to the extent that it offsets an existing surplus on the same asset 
recognised in the asset revaluation reserve.
Accumulated depreciation as at the revaluation date is eliminated 
against the gross carrying amount of the asset and the net amount 
is restated to the revalued amount of the asset. Upon disposal, 
any revaluation reserve relating to the particular asset being sold 
is transferred to retained earnings. Where land and buildings are 
subsequently revalued, the entire class of such assets is revalued at fair 
value on the date of revaluation. The Group has adopted a policy of 
revaluing assets by professional valuers at least every 5 years, except for 
properties held for rental and occupied mainly by group companies, 
which are revalued by professional valuers at least every 3 years.
Derecognition
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon 
replacement, disposal or when no future economic benefits are 
expected from its use. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of 
the asset is included in the income statement in the year the asset is 
derecognised.
Depreciation
Depreciation is calculated by using a straight-line method on the cost or 
valuation of all property, plant and equipment, other than freehold land, 
in order to write off such amounts over the estimated useful economic 
life of such assets.
The estimated useful life of assets is as follows:
Assets 
Years
Buildings (other than hotels)
50
Hotel buildings
up to 70 
Plant and machinery
10 – 25
Equipment
2– 15
Furniture and fittings
2– 15
Motor vehicles
4 – 10
Returnable Containers
10
Vessels 
10-25

254 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Notes to the Financial Statements
22.  
Property , plant and equipment (Contd.)
22.1  Property , plant and equipment - Group 
As at 31 March
 In Rs.‘000s
Land and
buildings
 Buildings on 
 leasehold 
 land 
Plant and
machinery
Equipment,
furniture
and fittings
Cost or valuation
At the beginning of the year
 61,679,494 
 34,751,101 
 16,465,090 
 15,638,676 
Additions
 185,307 
 991,193 
 829,343 
 1,318,029 
Disposals
 (279,000)
 (44,020)
 (101,175)
 (314,617)
Revaluations
 3,910,209 
 716,150 
 - 
 - 
Transfers (from revaluation adjustment)
 (224,080)
 (444,449)
 - 
 - 
Impairment/ Derecognition
 - 
 - 
 (41,509)
 - 
Transfers 
 (117,770)
 2,264,216 
 858,887 
 491,686 
Exchange differences 
 - 
 6,599,679 
 540,207 
 1,331,423 
At the end of the year
 65,154,160 
 44,833,870 
 18,550,843 
 18,465,197 
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
At the beginning of the year 
 (1,130,114)
 (4,658,189)
 (7,241,840)
 (8,401,410)
Charge for the year
 (295,997)
 (1,387,649)
 (1,171,769)
 (1,471,530)
Disposals
 - 
 35,886 
 95,543 
 265,395 
Transfers (from revaluation adjustment)
 224,080 
 444,449 
 - 
 - 
Impairment
 - 
 - 
 10,430 
 - 
Transfers 
 5,157 
 - 
 7,282 
 5,023 
Exchange differences
 - 
 (1,899,999)
 (232,429)
 (724,395)
At the end of the year
 (1,196,874)
 (7,465,502)
 (8,532,783)
 (10,326,917)
Carrying value
As at 31 March 2022
 63,957,286 
 37,368,368 
 10,018,060 
 8,138,280 
As at 31 March 2021
 60,549,380 
 30,092,912 
 9,223,250 
 7,237,266 
22.2  Property , plant and equipment - Company 
 As at 31 March
 In Rs.‘000s
 Plant and 
 machinery 
 Equipment, 
 furniture 
 and fittings 
 Motor 
 vehicles 
 Total 
2022
 Total 
2021
Cost
At the beginning of the year
 3,454 
 293,159 
 50,162 
 346,775 
 353,755 
Additions
 - 
 14,160 
 - 
 14,160 
 9,077 
Disposals
 - 
 (23,271)
 - 
 (23,271)
 (16,057)
At the end of the year
 3,454 
 284,048 
 50,162 
 337,664 
 346,775 
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
At the beginning of the year
 (3,184)
 (205,795)
 (26,995)
 (235,974)
 (209,402)
Charge for the year
 (13)
 (30,633)
 (7,944)
 (38,590)
 (42,629)
Disposals
 - 
 20,133 
 - 
 20,133 
 16,057 
At the end of the year
 (3,197)
 (216,295)
 (34,939)
 (254,431)
 (235,974)
Carrying value
As at 31 March 2022
 257 
 67,753 
 15,223 
 83,233 
As at 31 March 2021
 270 
 87,364 
 23,167 
 110,801 

255
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance       Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
Motor vehicles
Freehold
Returnable
containers
Others
Vessels
Capital
work in
progress
Total 
2022
Total 
2021
 776,877 
 935,113 
 6,251,598 
 1,066,489 
 2,489,177 
 140,053,614 
 134,741,640 
 11,181 
 74,199 
 547,268 
 94,126 
 2,576,130 
 6,626,776 
 5,367,019 
 (18,957)
 (13,289)
 (156,895)
 (1,896)
 (14,138)
 (943,987)
 (611,082)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 4,626,359 
 477,030 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (668,529)
 (656,900)
 - 
 - 
 (787)
 - 
 - 
 (42,296)
 (69,660)
 1,248 
 - 
 101,394 
 - 
 (3,854,676)
 (255,015)
 (18,741)
 78,238 
 - 
 75,898 
 - 
 - 
 8,625,445 
 824,308 
 848,587 
 996,023 
 6,818,476 
 1,158,719 
 1,196,493 
 158,022,367 
 140,053,614 
 (480,080)
 (689,977)
 (3,956,336)
 (419,026)
 - 
 (26,976,972)
 (23,207,882)
 (62,692)
 (69,805)
 (431,511)
 (123,251)
 - 
 (5,014,204)
 (4,725,534)
 17,610 
 12,892 
 143,770 
 1,849 
 - 
 572,945 
 499,438 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 668,529 
 656,900 
 - 
 - 
 469 
 - 
 - 
 10,899 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,249 
 - 
 - 
 18,711 
 490 
 (48,154)
 - 
 (49,694)
 - 
 - 
 (2,954,671)
 (200,384)
 (573,316)
 (746,890)
 (4,292,053)
 (540,428)
 - 
 (33,674,763)
 (26,976,972)
 275,271 
 249,133 
 2,526,423 
 618,291 
 1,196,493 
 124,347,604 
 296,797 
 245,136 
 2,295,262 
 647,463 
 2,489,177 
 113,076,642 
During the year 2021/2022 there was no depreciation capitalized as a 
part of the cost of other assets.
22.3  Revaluation of land and buildings 
Accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions 
The Group uses the revaluation model of measurement of land and 
buildings. The Group engaged independent expert valuers to determine 
the fair value of its land and buildings. Fair value is determined by 
reference to market-based evidence of transaction prices for similar 
properties. Valuations are based on open market prices, adjusted for any 
difference in the nature, location or condition of the specific property. 
These valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances 
and for which sufficient data is available to measure fair value, 
maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the 
use of unobservable inputs. The most recent revaluation was carried out 
on 31 December 2021.
The changes in fair value are recognised in other comprehensive income 
and in the statement of equity. The valuer has used valuation techniques 
such as market values and discounted cash flow methods where there 
was lack of comparable market data available based on the nature of the 
property.

256 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Notes to the Financial Statements
22.  
Property , plant and equipment (Contd.)
22.3  Revaluation of land and buildings (Contd.)
Details of Group’s land, building and other properties stated at valuation are indicated below;
Property
Name of the 
Chartered 
Valuation Surveyor
Method of 
valuation
Significant unobservable inputs
Estimated price 
per perch
Estimated price 
per square foot
Estimated 
discount 
rate
Correlation 
to fair value
Land and Building 
Asian Hotels & Properties PLC
P B Kalugalagedara
DCC
Rs.17,000,000 - 
Rs.19,500,000 
Rs.2,000 - Rs.13,000
 -   
Positive
Beruwala Holiday Resorts  
(Pvt) Ltd
-do-
OMV 
Rs.900,000 - 
Rs.1,100,000 
Rs.3,000 - Rs.10,500
 -   
Positive
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC
-do-
OMV 
Rs.200,000 - 
Rs.225,000 
Rs.1000 - Rs.2,000
 -   
Positive
Kandy Walk Inn Ltd
S Fernando 
OMV
Rs.10,000 - 
Rs.1,260,000
Rs.1,100 - Rs.8,800
 -   
Positive
Keells Food Products PLC
P B Kalugalagedara
DCC
Rs.65,000 - 
Rs.600,000
Rs.400 - Rs.3,150
 -   
Positive
Keells Realtors Ltd
-do-
DCC
Rs.1,600,000 - 
Rs.2,500,000
Rs.500 - Rs.1,500
 -   
Positive
Mackinnons Keells Ltd
-do-
DCC
Rs.10,000,000
Rs1,500
 -   
Positive
Tea Smallholder Factories PLC
K.T.D. Tissera
DCC
Rs.5,000 - Rs.21,875
Rs.500 - Rs.2,000
 -   
Positive
Trinco Holiday Resort (Pvt) Ltd
P B Kalugalagedara
OMV 
Rs.400,000
Rs.1,000-Rs.7,250
 -   
Positive
Union Assurance PLC
-do-
DCC
Rs.8,250,000 - 
Rs.19,500,000
Rs.500 - Rs.6,000
-
Positive
Vauxhall Land Developments (Pvt) 
Ltd
-do-
OMV
Rs.17,000,000
 -   
 -   
Positive
Buildings on leasehold land
Ceylon Holiday Resorts Ltd
P B Kalugalagedara
DCC 
 -   
Rs.8,000 - Rs.15,000
 -   
Positive
Keells Food Products PLC
-do-
OMV 
-
Rs.150 - Rs.1,500
 -   
Positive
Habarana Lodge Ltd
S Fernando 
DCC
-
Rs.575 - Rs.9,200
 -   
Positive
Habarana Walk Inn Ltd
-do-
DCC
-
Rs.1,150 - Rs.6,900
 -   
Positive
Hikkaduwa Holiday Resort (Pvt) Ltd
P B Kalugalagedara
DCC
-
Rs.1,600 - Rs.7,500
 -   
Positive
Jaykay Marketing Service (Pvt)Ltd
-do-
IM
-
 -   
6%
Positive 
John Keells Warehousing (Pvt) Ltd
K T D Tissera
IM
-
Rs.2,000 - Rs.3,000
 -   
Positive
Rajawella Holdings Ltd
P B Kalugalagedara
DCC 
-
Rs.1,900 - Rs.9,000 
 -   
Positive
Trans Asia Hotels PLC
-do-
DCC
-
Rs.400 - Rs.7,500
 -   
Positive
Yala Village (Pvt ) Ltd
P B Kalugalagedara
DCC
-
Rs.2,450 - Rs.7,500
 -   
Positive
Effective date of valuation was 31 December 2021.

257
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance       Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
Summary description of valuation methodologies;
Open market value method (OMV)
Open market value method uses prices and other relevant information 
generated by market transactions involving identical or comparable 
assets, liabilities or a group of assets and liabilities, such as a business.
Direct capital comparison method (DCC)
This method may be adopted when the rental value is not available 
from the property concerned, but there are evidences of sale price of 
properties as a whole. In such cases, the capitalized value of the property 
is fixed by direct comparison with capitalized value of similar property in 
the locality.
Contractors method (CM)
The replacement cost (contractor’s) method is used to value properties 
which do not generally exchange on the open market and for which 
comparable evidence therefore does not exist. The valuations are based 
on two components: the depreciated cost of the building element and 
the market value of the land. Current building costs and often the land 
price will be established by comparison.
Investment method (IM)
The investment method is used to value properties which are let to 
produce an income for the investor. Conventionally, investment value 
is a product of rent and yield. Each of these elements is derived using 
comparison techniques.
22.4 The carrying amount of revalued land and buildings if they were carried at cost less depreciation and impairment, would be as follows; 
GROUP
As at 31 March
2022
2021
In Rs.'000s
Cost
41,209,451
 40,027,371
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
(3,823,188)
 (3,732,917) 
Carrying value
37,386,263
 36,294,454
23.  
Right of use assets and lease liabilities 
Accounting Policy
Right of use assets
The Group recognises right of use assets when the underlying asset 
is available for use. Right of use assets are measured at cost, less any 
accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, and adjusted for any 
remeasurement of lease liabilities. The cost of right of use assets includes 
the amount of lease liabilities recognised, initial direct costs incurred, 
and lease payments made at or before the commencement date less 
any lease incentives received. Unless the Group is reasonably certain to 
obtain ownership of the leased asset at the end of the lease term, the 
recognised right of use assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis 
over the shorter of its estimated useful life or the lease term. Right of use 
assets are subject to impairment.
Lease liabilities
At the commencement date of the lease, the Group recognises lease 
liabilities measured at the present value of lease payments to be 
made over the lease term. In calculating the present value of lease 
payments, the Group uses the incremental borrowing rate at the lease 
commencement date if the interest rate implicit in the lease is not 
readily determinable. After the commencement date, the amount 
of lease liabilities is increased to reflect the accretion of interest and 
reduced for the lease payments made. In addition, the carrying amount 
of lease liabilities is remeasured if there is a modification, a change in 
the lease term, a change in the in-substance fixed lease payments or a 
change in the assessment to purchase the underlying asset.
The Group uses 6 months AWPLR based plus margin when calculating 
the incremental borrowing rate which reflects the average rate of 
borrowings in the Group. Quarterly calculated incremental borrowing 
rates were used to discount new leases obtained during the year.
The Group has applied COVID-19 related rent concessions which has 
been extended up to June 2022. 
Short-term leases and leases of low-value assets
The Group applies the short-term lease recognition exemption to leases 
that have a lease term of 12 months or less from the commencement 
date. It also applies the lease of low-value assets recognition exemption 
to leases of office equipment that are considered of low value. Lease 
payments on short-term leases and leases of low-value assets are 
recognised as expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Businesses continued to respond with specific plans to enable 
smooth and uninterrupted functioning of businesses and operations, 
despite some of the immediate term challenges due to constraints on 
supply chains and electricity and fuel disruptions, whilst maintaining 
strict adherence to Government directives and health and safety 
considerations. The Group managed to circumvent these issues without 
a significant impact on output. As such, the Group has not determined 
impairment as at the reporting date.
Group land and buildings with a carrying value of Rs.4,098 Mn (2021-
3,878 Mn) have been pledged as security for term loans obtained, details 
of which are disclosed in Note 37.2.
Group property, plant and equipment with a cost of Rs.9,100 Mn (2021- 
Rs.7,628 Mn) have been fully depreciated and continue to be in use by 
the Group. The cost of fully depreciated assets continued to be in used 
by the Company Rs.650 Mn (2021- Rs.605 Mn).
The amount of borrowing costs capitalised during the year ended 31 
March 2022 was Rs.122 Mn (2021- Rs.32 Mn) by the Group. 

258 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Notes to the Financial Statements
23.  
Right of use assets and lease liabilities (Contd.)
23.1 Amounts recognised in the statement of financial position and income statement
Set out below, are the carrying amounts of the Group's right of use assets and the movements for the year ended 31 March 2022.
23.1.1 Right of use assets
GROUP
Lease hold
properties
Motor Vehicles
Total
2022
Total
2021
In Rs.'000s
At the beginning of the year 
40,567,715
49,135
 40,616,850 
 37,170,270 
Additions
1,974,156 
-
 1,974,156 
 4,588,149 
Disposals
(140,905)
-
 (140,905)
 (5,827)
Amortisation expense
(2,808,018)
(33,771)
 (2,841,789)
 (2,619,179)
Exchange differences
13,873,262
-
 13,873,262 
 1,483,437 
At the end of the year 
53,466,210
15,364
 53,481,574 
 40,616,850 
23.1.2 Lease liabilities
Set out below are the carrying amounts of lease liabilities and the movements for the period ended 31 March 2022. 
GROUP
In Rs.'000s
2022
2021
At the beginning of the year 
 25,707,265 
 21,292,786 
Additions
 1,927,327 
 4,584,504 
Transfers
 (98,571)
 (122,000)
Interest expense
 1,511,437 
 1,503,908 
Disposals
 (140,905)
 (3,203)
Payments
 (3,140,184)
 (2,383,375)
Exchange differences
 7,760,079 
 834,645 
At the end of the year 
 33,526,448 
 25,707,265 
Current
 3,459,496 
 1,472,297 
Non-current
 30,066,952 
 24,234,968 
Total lease liabilities as at 31 March
 33,526,448 
 25,707,265 
Following are the amounts recognised in income statement for the year ended 31 March
Amortisation of right-of-use assets 
 2,841,789 
2,619,179
Interest expense on lease liabilities 
 1,511,437 
 1,503,908 
Total amount recognised in income statement
 4,353,226 
4,123,087
Expenses relating to short term leases and leases of low value assets amounting to Rs.548 Mn (2021 - Rs.293 Mn) has recognized in profit or loss.

259
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance       Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
24.  
Investment property
Accounting policy
Investment properties are measured initially at cost, including 
transaction costs. The carrying value of an investment property includes 
the cost of replacing part of an existing investment property, at the time 
that cost is incurred if the recognition criteria are met and excludes the 
costs of day to- day servicing of the investment property. Subsequent 
to initial recognition, the investment properties are stated at fair values, 
which reflect market conditions at the reporting date.
Gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are included in the 
income statement in the year in which they arise. Fair values are 
revaluated at least every 3 years by an accredited external, independent 
valuer. The most recent revaluation was carried out on 31 December 
2021.
Investment properties are derecognised when disposed, or permanently 
withdrawn from use because no future economic benefits are expected. 
Any gains or losses on retirement or disposal are recognised in the 
income statement in the year of retirement or disposal.
Transfers are made to or from investment property only when there 
is a change in use for a transfer from investment property to owner 
occupied property or inventory (WIP), the deemed cost for subsequent 
accounting is the fair value at the date of change in use. If owner 
occupied property becomes an investment property or inventory (WIP), 
the Group accounts for such property in accordance with the policy 
stated under property, plant and equipment up to the date of change 
in use. Where Group companies occupy a significant portion of the 
investment property of a subsidiary, such investment properties are 
treated as property, plant and equipment in the consolidated financial 
statements, and accounted for using accounting policy for property, 
plant and equipment.
GROUP
As at 31 March
In Rs.‘000s
2022
2021
Carrying value 
At the beginning of the year
 14,867,586 
 15,007,996 
Additions
 386,987 
113,015
Transfers
 22,849,369 
 - 
Change in fair value during the year
 (4,084,755)
 (253,425)
Disposals
 (1,137,119)
 -
Exchange differences
(2,274,518)
-
At the end of the year
 30,607,550 
14,867,586 
Freehold property
 30,024,752 
 14,442,981 
Leasehold property
 582,798 
 424,605 
 30,607,550 
14,867,586
Following are the amounts recognised in income statement for the year ended 31 March
Rental income earned
416,442
 381,073 
Direct operating expenses generating rental income 
 144,727 
 160,565 
Direct operating expenses that did not generate rental income
-
-
Accounting judgments, estimates and assumptions 
Fair value of the investment property is ascertained by independent 
valuations carried out by Chartered valuation surveyors, who have 
recent experience in valuing properties in similar locations and category. 
Investment property is appraised in accordance with LKAS 40, SLFRS 13 
and the 8th edition of International Valuation Standards published by the 
International Valuation Standards Committee (IVSC) by the independent 
valuers. In determining the fair value, the current condition of the 
properties, future usability and associated re-development requirements 
have been considered. Also, the valuers have made reference to market 
evidence of transaction prices for similar properties, with appropriate 
adjustments for size and location. The appraised fair values are rounded 
within the range of values.
The changes in fair value are recognised in the Income Statement. 
The determined fair values of investment properties, using investment 
method, are most sensitive to the estimated yield as well as the long 
term occupancy rate.
Businesses continued to respond with specific plans to enable 
smooth and uninterrupted functioning of businesses and operations, 
despite some of the immediate term challenges due to constraints on 
supply chains and electricity and fuel disruptions, whilst maintaining 
strict adherence to Government directives and health and safety 
considerations. The Group managed to circumvent these issues without 
a significant impact on output. As such, the Group has not determined 
impairment as at the reporting date.

260 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Notes to the Financial Statements
24.  
Investment property (Contd.)
Description of valuation techniques used and key inputs to valuation of investment properties: 
 Property
Name of the 
Chartered 
Valuation Surveyor
Method of 
valuation*
Significant unobservable inputs
Estimated price 
per perch
Estimated 
price per 
square foot
Estimated 
discount 
rate
Correlation 
to fair value
Freehold property
Ahungalla Holiday Resort Ltd
S Fernando 
DCC
Rs.260,000 - 
Rs.420,000
-
-
Positive 
Asian Hotels and Properties PLC
P B Kalugalagedara
IM
 - 
 - 
6%
Negative 
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC
-do-
OMV
Rs.1,650,000
Rs.1,000 - 
Rs.2,000
 - 
Positive 
Facets (Pvt) Ltd
S Fernando 
DCC
Rs.475,000
 - 
 - 
Positive 
Glennie Properties (Pvt) Ltd
P B Kalugalagedara
OMV
Rs.16,000,000
 - 
-
Positive 
John Keells Properties Ja-Ela (Pvt) Ltd 
-do-
DCC
Rs.1,300,000
Rs.4,500
 - 
Positive 
John Keells PLC
-do-
OMV
Rs. 700,000
 - 
 - 
Positive 
J K Thudella Properties (Pvt) Ltd
P P T Mohideen
OMV
Rs.300,000
 - 
-
Positive 
Keells Realtors Ltd
P B Kalugalagedara
DCC
Rs.1,600,000 -  
Rs.2,500,000
Rs.500 - 
Rs.1,500
 - 
Positive 
Resort Hotels Ltd
S Fernando
DCC
Rs.110,000 -
Rs.260,000
 - 
-
Positive 
Trinco Walk Inn Ltd
-do-
DCC
Rs.120,000 -
Rs.340,000
 - 
-
Positive 
Waterfront Properties (Pvt) Ltd
P B Kalugalagedara
IM
-
-
6%
Negative
Whittall Boustead (Pvt) Ltd 
-do-
DCC
Rs.2,250,000
Rs.500 - 
Rs.1,500 
-
Positive 
Wirawila Walk Inn Ltd
S Fernando 
DCC
Rs.23,750
 - 
-
Positive 
Vauxhall Land Developments (Pvt) Ltd
P B Kalugalagedara
OMV
Rs.17,000,000
 - 
-
Positive 
Leasehold property
Tea Smallholder Factories PLC
P B Kalugalagedara
DCC
Rs.2,600,000
Rs.1,000
-
Positive 
* Summary of valuation methodologies can be found in property plant and equipment Note 22.3. 
The level at which fair value measurement is categorized can be found in fair value measurement and related fair value disclosures Note 12.1.

261
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance       Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
25. 
Intangible assets 
Accounting policy 
Basis of recognition
An Intangible asset is recognised if it is probable that future economic 
benefits associated with the asset will flow to the Group and the cost of 
the asset can be reliably measured.
Basis of measurement 
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition 
at cost. The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination 
is the fair value as at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less any 
accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Internally generated intangible assets, excluding capitalised development 
costs, are not capitalised, and expenditure is charged to income statement 
in the year in which the expenditure is incurred.
Useful economic lives, amortisation and impairment
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed as either finite or 
indefinite lives. Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over the 
useful economic life and assessed for impairment whenever there is an 
indication that the intangible asset may be impaired.
The amortisation period and the amortisation method for an intangible 
asset with a finite useful life is reviewed at least at each financial year-
end and treated as accounting estimates. The amortisation is calculated 
by using straight-line method on the cost of all the intangible assets 
and the amortisation expense on intangible assets with finite lives is 
recognised in the income statement.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives and goodwill are not 
amortised but tested for impairment annually, or more frequently 
when an indication of impairment exists either individually or at the 
cash-generating unit level. The useful life of an intangible asset with an 
indefinite life is reviewed annually to determine whether indefinite life 
assessment continues to be supportable. If not, the change in the useful 
life assessment from indefinite to finite is made on a prospective basis.
Present value of acquired in-force business (PVIB)
The present value of future profits on a portfolio of long term life 
insurance contracts as at the acquisition date is recognised as an 
intangible asset based on a valuation carried out by an independent 
actuary. Subsequent to initial recognition, the intangible asset is carried 
at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment 
losses.
The PVIB is amortised over the average useful life of the related contracts 
in the portfolio. The amortisation charge and any impairment losses 
would be recognised in the Income Statement as an expense.
Research and development costs
Research costs are expensed as incurred. An intangible asset arising from 
development expenditure on an individual project is recognised as an 
intangible asset, when the Group can demonstrate:
• The technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that it 
will be available for use or sale,
• Its intention to complete and its ability to use or sell the assets,
• how the assets will generate future economic benefits,
• the availability of resources to complete the assets,
• the ability to measure reliably the expenditure during development.
Following initial recognition of the development expenditure of an asset, 
the cost model is applied requiring the asset to be carried at cost less 
any accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Amortisation of the asset begins when development is complete and 
the asset is available for use. It is amortised over the period of expected 
future benefit from the use or expected future sales from the related 
project. During the period of development, the asset is tested for 
impairment annually. 
Contractual relationships
Contractual relationships are rights which provide access to distribution 
networks. Contractual relationships are initially recognised at cost and 
amortised over the contract period.
A summary of the policies applied to the Group’s intangible assets is as 
follows.
Intangible assets
Useful life
Type
Impairment testing
PVIB
12
Acquired
When indicators of impairment exists. The amortisation method is reviewed at each 
financial year end.
Purchased software
5 - 10
Software license
5
Contractual 
relationships
5 - 10
Developed software
5 - 10
Internally generated
Annually for assets not yet in use and more frequently when indicators of 
impairment arise. For assets in use, when indicators of impairment arise. The 
amortisation method is reviewed at each financial year end.
Gains or losses arising from derecognition of an intangible asset are measured as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying 
amount of the asset and are recognised in the income statement when the asset is derecognised.

262 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Notes to the Financial Statements
25. 
Intangible assets (Contd.)
25.1  Intangible assets
Software
As at 31 March
In Rs.‘000s
Developed 
Purchased
Licenses
WIP
Cost/carrying value
At the beginning of the year
 1,937,783 
 990,292 
 1,645,367 
 18,967 
Additions
 798,969 
 123,491 
 285,310 
 28,332 
Transfers
 47,249 
 68,274 
 156,836 
 (47,249)
Disposal
 (3,123)
 - 
 (30,546)
 - 
Impairment
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
At the end of the year
 2,780,878 
 1,182,057 
 2,056,967 
 50 
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
At the beginning of the year
 (443,355)
 (394,428)
 (900,978)
 - 
Amortisation 
 (228,199)
 (111,946)
 (188,820)
 - 
Transfers
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Disposal
 3,123 
 - 
 266 
 - 
At the end of the year
 (668,431)
 (506,374)
 (1,089,532)
 - 
Carrying value
As at 31 March 2022
 2,112,447 
 675,683 
 967,435 
 50 
As at 31 March 2021
 1,494,428 
 595,864 
 744,389 
 18,967 
25.2 Intangible assets - Goodwill
GROUP
Net carring value
As at 31 March
In Rs.‘000s
2022
2021
Goodwill acquired through business combinations have been allocated to following cash generating units (CGU's) for 
impairment testing,
Airlines Services
 - 
 5,054 
Cinnamon Hotels and Resorts
 166,248 
 166,248 
Consumer Foods
 299,293 
 299,293 
Financial Services
 265,360 
 265,360 
Logistics, Ports and Shipping
 - 
 2,641 
 730,901 
 738,596 
The recoverable amounts of all CGUs have been determined based on the fair value, less cost to sell or the value in use (VIU) calculation.
Group Intangible assets with a cost of Rs.157 Mn (2021- Rs.151 Mn) have 
been fully amortised and continue to be in use by the Group.
Present value of acquired in-force business (PVIB) 
Upon acquiring a controlling stake in Union Assurance PLC (UA), the 
Group has recognised in the consolidated financial statements an 
intangible asset representing the present value of future profits on UA’s 
portfolio of long term life insurance contracts, known as the present 
value of acquired in-force business (PVIB) at the acquisition date. Further, 
PVIB recognised at the acquisition date will be amortised over the 
estimated life of the business acquired and reviewed annually for any 
impairment in value.

263
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance       Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
GROUP
COMPANY
 PVIB 
Goodwill
Other
Software Licenses
2022
Total
2021
Total 
2022
Total
2021
Total 
 2,249,000 
 738,596 
 1,440,738 
 9,020,743 
 6,853,883 
 651,641 
 626,030 
 - 
-
 124,075 
 1,360,177 
 2,187,300 
 30,165 
 25,611 
 - 
-
-
 225,110 
 18,742 
-
 - 
 - 
-
 (297,046)
 (330,715)
 (39,182)
-
 - 
 - 
 (7,695)
 - 
 (7,695)
 - 
-
-
 2,249,000 
 730,901 
 1,267,767 
 10,267,620 
 9,020,743 
 681,806 
 651,641 
 (2,249,000)
 - 
 (180,004)
 (4,167,765)
 (3,564,894)
 (554,119)
 (523,488)
 - 
 - 
 (174,941)
 (703,906)
 (641,563)
 (33,324)
 (30,631)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (490)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3,389 
 39,182 
 - 
 - 
 (2,249,000)
 - 
 (354,945)
 (4,868,282)
 (4,167,765)
 (587,443)
 (554,119)
 - 
 730,901 
 912,822 
 5,399,338 
 94,363 
 - 
 738,596 
 1,260,734 
 4,852,978 
 97,522 
Accounting judgments, estimates and assumptions 
Impairment of goodwill
Impairment exists when the carrying value of an asset or cash 
generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher 
of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use (VIU). The fair value 
less costs to sell calculation is based on available data from an active 
market, in an arm’s length transaction, of similar assets or observable 
market prices less incremental costs for disposing of the asset. The value 
in use calculation is based on a discounted cash flow model. The cash 
flows are derived from the budget for the next five years and do not 
include restructuring activities that the Group is not yet committed to or 
significant future investments that will enhance the asset’s performance 
of the cash generating unit being tested. The recoverable amount is 
most sensitive to the discount rate used for the discounted cash flow 
model as well as the expected future cash inflows and the growth rate 
used for extrapolation purposes. 
The key assumptions used to determine the recoverable amount for the 
different cash generating units, are as follows; 
Gross margins
The basis used to determine the value assigned to the budgeted 
gross margins is the gross margins achieved in the year preceding the 
budgeted year adjusted for projected market conditions.
Discount rates
The discount rate used is the risk free rate, adjusted by the addition of an 
appropriate risk premium.
Inflation
The basis used to determine the value assigned to the budgeted cost 
inflation, is the inflation rate, based on projected economic conditions.
Volume growth
Volume growth has been budgeted on a reasonable and realistic basis 
by taking into account the industry growth rates of one to four years 
immediately subsequent to the budgeted year. Cash flows beyond the 
five year period are extrapolated using 0% growth rate.

264 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Notes to the Financial Statements
26. 
Investment in subsidiaries 
Accounting policy 
Investment in subsidiaries is initially recognised at cost in the financial statements of the Company. Any transaction cost relating to acquisition of 
investment in subsidiaries is immediately recognised in the income statement. After the initial recognition, Investments in subsidiaries are carried at 
cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
26.1  Carrying value
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2022
2021
In Rs.'000s
Quoted
26.2
 20,256,309 
 20,228,019 
Unquoted
26.3
 96,710,286 
81,106,517
 116,966,595
101,334,536
26.2  Group quoted investments
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
Number of
shares
Effective
 holding %
Number of
shares
Effective
 holding %
2022
In Rs.‘000s
2021
In Rs.‘000s
Cost
Asian Hotels and Properties PLC
347,824,190
78.56%
347,824,190
78.56%
 5,378,525 
 5,381,562 
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC
773,245,440
81.36%
671,558,120
70.66%
 1,682,346 
 1,662,908 
John Keells Hotels PLC
1,169,598,478
80.32%
1,169,598,478
80.32%
 7,102,140 
 7,102,140 
John Keells PLC
52,834,784
86.90%
52,834,784
86.90%
 488,005 
 485,455 
Keells Food Products PLC
22,937,250
88.63%
20,364,054
79.86%
 1,241,876 
 1,239,768 
Tea Smallholder Factories PLC
11,286,000
37.62%
11,286,000
37.62%
 66,809 
 66,809 
Trans Asia Hotels PLC
184,107,284
82.74%
97,284,256
48.64%
 1,617,229 
 1,616,425 
Union Assurance PLC
53,035,715
90.00%
53,035,715
90.00%
 2,679,379 
 2,672,952 
 20,256,309 
 20,228,019 
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2022
2021
2022
2021
In Rs.'000s
Market Value
Asian Hotels and Properties PLC
 12,869,495 
 13,008,625 
 12,869,495 
 13,008,625 
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC
 30,079,248 
 48,074,534 
 26,123,611 
 41,754,126 
John Keells Hotels PLC
 13,684,302 
 11,111,186 
 13,684,302 
 11,111,186 
John Keells PLC
 3,619,183 
 3,698,435 
 3,619,183 
 3,698,435 
Keells Food Products PLC
 3,813,318 
 3,727,303 
 3,385,524 
 3,309,159 
Tea Smallholder Factories PLC
 305,851 
 462,726 
 305,851 
 462,726 
Trans Asia Hotels PLC
 8,873,971 
 10,291,597 
 4,689,101 
 5,438,190 
Union Assurance PLC
 16,083,081 
 16,573,661 
 16,083,081 
 16,573,661 
 89,328,449 
 106,948,067 
 80,760,148 
 95,356,108 

265
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance       Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
26.3  Group unquoted investments
 GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2022
2022
2021
Number of
shares
Effective
 holding %
Number of
shares
Effective
 holding %
Cost
In Rs.‘000s
Cost
In Rs.‘000s
Ahungalla Holiday Resort (Pvt) Ltd
 13,275,000 
 80.32 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Beruwala Holiday Resorts (Pvt ) Ltd
 219,725,653 
 79.78 
 - 
 - 
 3,586 
 3,586 
British Overseas (Pvt) Ltd
 61 
 61.00 
 61 
 61.00 
 - 
 - 
Ceylon Holiday Resorts Ltd
 18,260,784 
 79.60 
 - 
 - 
 3,887 
 3,850 
Cinnamon Hotels Management Ltd
 1,000,000 
 100.00 
 1,000,000 
 100.00 
 455,075 
 410,826 
Cinnamon Hotels Management International (Pvt) Ltd
 50,000 
 100.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Cinnamon Holidays (Pvt) Ltd
 20,000 
 80.32 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Facets (Pvt) Ltd
 15,000 
 100.00 
 15,000 
 100.00 
 - 
 - 
Fantasea World Investments (Pte) Ltd
 7,299 
 80.32 
 - 
 - 
 4,738 
 4,540 
Glennie Properties (Pvt) Ltd
 16,386,140 
 100.00 
 16,386,140 
 100.00 
 163,861 
 163,861 
Habarana Lodge Ltd
 12,981,548 
 78.99 
 - 
 - 
 4,096 
 4,125 
Habarana Walk Inn Ltd
 4,321,381 
 79.34 
 - 
 - 
 2,719 
 2,758 
Hikkaduwa Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
 107,596,700 
 79.60 
 - 
 - 
 2,621 
 2,604 
InfoMate (Pvt) Ltd
 2,000,000 
 100.00 
 2,000,000 
 100.00 
 41,395 
 39,590 
International Tourists and Hoteliers Ltd
 38,490,901 
 79.78 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
J K Land (Pvt) Ltd
 2,302,760,246 
 100.00  2,302,760,246 
 100.00 
 24,964,639 
 23,027,602 
J K Packaging (Pvt) Ltd
 1,450,000 
 100.00 
 1,450,000 
 100.00 
 - 
 - 
J K Thudella Properties (Pvt) Ltd 
 45,346,760 
 100.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
JayKay Marketing Services (Pvt) Ltd
 202,239,025 
 81.36 
 - 
 - 
 226,222 
 204,958 
John Keells BPO Holdings (Pvt) Ltd
 19,000,000 
 100.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
John Keells BPO International (Pvt) Ltd
 1,500,000,000 
 100.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
John Keells BPO Solutions Lanka (Pvt) Ltd
 32,843,578 
 100.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
John Keells Information Technologies (Pvt) Ltd 
9,650,000
 100.00 
 9,650,000 
 100.00 
 123,346 
 122,958 
John Keells Foods India (Pvt) Ltd
 8,999,990 
 88.63 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
John Keells International (Pvt) Ltd
 199,160,000 
 100.00 
 199,160,000 
 100.00 
 673,526 
 671,655 
John Keells Logistics (Pvt) Ltd
 19,999,998 
 100.00 
 19,999,998 
 100.00 
 229,930 
 228,503 
John Keells Maldivian Resorts (Pte) Ltd
 49,044,238 
 80.32 
 - 
 - 
 18,152 
 17,932 
John Keells Office Automation (Pvt) Ltd
 500,000 
 100.00 
 500,000 
 100.00 
 71,170 
 68,263 
John Keells Properties (Pvt) Ltd
 101,804 
 100.00 
 101,804 
 100.00 
 - 
 - 
John Keells Properties Ja-ela (Pvt) Ltd
 95,436,000 
 100.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
John Keells Residential Properties (Pvt) Ltd
 2,081,698 
 100.00 
 2,081,698 
 100.00 
 20,817 
 20,817 
John Keells Singapore (Pte) Ltd
 160,000 
 80.00 
 160,000 
 80.00 
 4,209 
 4,209 
John Keells Stock Brokers (Pvt) Ltd
 1,500,000 
 90.04 
 360,000 
 24.00 
 85,187 
 80,666 
John Keells Teas Ltd
 12,000 
 100.00 
 12,000 
 100.00 
 22,424 
 20,902 
John Keells Warehousing (Pvt) Ltd
 12,000,000 
 86.90 
 - 
 - 
 5,034 
 5,006 
Kandy Walk Inn Ltd
 6,165,484 
 79.03 
 - 
 - 
 4,089 
 4,105 
Keells Consultants (Pvt) Ltd
 928 
 100.00 
 928 
 100.00 
 2,066 
 2,032 
Keells Realtors Ltd
 7,500,000 
 95.81 
 5,100,000 
 40.00 
 119,124 
 119,124 
Keells Shipping (Pvt) Ltd
 50,000 
 100.00 
 50,000 
 100.00 
 - 
 - 
Lanka Marine Services (Pvt) Ltd
 34,805,470 
 99.44 
 34,805,470 
 99.44 
 1,409,828 
 1,403,053 
Logipark International (Pvt) Ltd
 60,407,698 
81.36
-
-
 - 
 - 
Mack Air (Pvt) Ltd
 89,260 
 100.00 
 89,260 
 100.00 
 38,149 
 36,981 
Mack Air Services Maldives (Pte) Ltd
 4,900 
 49.00 
 4,700 
 47.00 
 2,021 
 2,021 
Mack International Freight (Pvt) Ltd
 13,000,000 
 100.00 
 13,000,000 
 100.00 
 2,268 
 1,792 
Mackinnon Keells Ltd
 31,966,951 
 100.00 
 31,966,951 
 100.00 
 670,166 
 670,166 

266 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Notes to the Financial Statements
 GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2022
2022
2021
Number of
shares
Effective
 holding %
Number of
shares
Effective
 holding %
Cost
In Rs.‘000s
Cost
In Rs.‘000s
Mackinnon Mackenzie and Company (Shipping) Ltd
 139,092 
 100.00 
 139,092 
 100.00 
 65,850 
 65,848 
Mackinnon Mackenzie and Company of (Ceylon) Ltd
 1,244 
 100.00 
 1,244 
 100.00 
 29,122 
 29,122 
Mackinnons Travels (Pvt) Ltd
 499,996 
 100.00 
 499,996 
 100.00 
 31,150 
 30,583 
Mortlake (Pvt) Ltd
 43 
 100.00 
 43 
 100.00 
 20,000 
 20,000 
Nuwara Eliya Holiday Resort (Pvt) Ltd
 31,606,252 
 80.32 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Rajawella Holdings Ltd
 13,063,936 
 49.85 
 11,573,339 
 45.18 
 801,707 
 801,707 
Rajawella Hotels Company Ltd
 3,157,384 
 80.32 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Resort Hotels Ltd
 106,107 
 79.60 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
The Colombo Ice Company (Pvt) Ltd
 169,999,999 
 81.36  169,999,999 
 81.36 
 1,155 
 819 
Tranquility (Pte) Ltd
 637,499 
 80.32 
 - 
 - 
 5,702 
 5,616 
Trans-ware Logistics (Pvt) Ltd
 5,539,929 
 100.00 
 5,539,929 
 100.00 
 58,983 
 58,983 
Travel Club (Pte) Ltd
 29,059 
 80.32 
 - 
 - 
 3,690 
 3,667 
Trinco Holiday Resort (Pvt) Ltd
 8,120,005 
 80.32 
 - 
 - 
 3,623 
 3,590 
Trinco Walk Inn Ltd
 3,000,007 
 80.32 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Vauxhall Land Developments (Pvt) Ltd
2,171,655,391
100.00
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Walkers Tours Ltd
 3,737,634 
 98.51 
 3,737,634 
 98.05 
 195,291 
 191,018 
Waterfront Properties (Pvt) Ltd
 7,140,071,956 
 98.59  5,053,995,419 
 87.37 
 64,169,906 
 50,612,655 
Whittall Boustead (Pvt) Ltd
 5,341,105 
 100.00 
 5,341,105 
 100.00 
 1,668,721 
 1,655,358 
Whittall Boustead (Travel) Ltd
 22,452,271 
 100.00 
 22,452,271 
 100.00 
 278,289 
 276,325 
Wirawila Walk Inn Ltd
 1,706,750 
 80.32 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd
 28,268,000 
 75.33 
 - 
 - 
 2,752 
 2,740 
Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd- Non voting preference shares
 10,000,000 
 80.32 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 96,710,286 
 81,106,517 
27.  
Investment in equity accounted investees 
Accounting policy 
An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence. 
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and 
operating policy decisions of the investee, but is not control or joint 
control over those policies.
Associate companies incorporated in Sri Lanka of the Group which have 
been accounted for under the equity method of accounting are:
 
Capitol Hotel Holdings (Pvt) Ltd
 
Colombo West International Terminal (Pvt) Ltd
 
Fairfirst Insurance Ltd
  Indra Hotels and Resorts Kandy (Pvt) Ltd
 
Maersk Lanka (Pvt) Ltd
 
Nations Trust Bank PLC
 
Saffron Aviation (Pvt) Ltd
 
South Asia Gateway Terminals (Pvt) Ltd
A joint venture is a type of joint arrangement whereby the parties that 
have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the 
joint venture. Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control 
of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant 
activities require unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
Joint ventures incorporated in Sri Lanka entered into by the Group, 
which have been accounted for using the equity method, are:
 Braybrooke Residential Properties (Pvt) Ltd 
 DHL Keells (Pvt) Ltd
 Inchcape Mackinnon Mackenzie Shipping (Pvt) Ltd
 Sentinel Reality (Pvt) Ltd
The considerations made in determining significant influence or 
joint control are similar to those necessary to determine control over 
subsidiaries.
Nature of the entity’s relationship, principal place of business and the 
country of incorporation is disclosed in group directory.
The Group’s investments in its associate and joint venture are accounted 
for using the equity method. Under the equity method, the investment 
in an associate or a joint venture is initially recognised at cost. The 
carrying amount of the investment is adjusted to recognise changes in 
the Group’s share of net assets of the associate or joint venture since the 
acquisition date. Goodwill relating to the associate or joint venture is 
included in the carrying amount of the investment and is not tested for 
impairment individually.

267
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance       Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
The income statement reflects the Group’s share of the results of 
operations of the associate or joint venture. Any change in OCI of those 
investees is presented as part of the Group’s OCI. In addition, when there 
has been a change recognised directly in the equity of the associate 
or joint venture, the Group recognises its share of any changes, when 
applicable, in the statement of changes in equity.
Unrealised gains and losses resulting from transactions between the 
Group and the associate or joint venture are eliminated to the extent of 
the interest in the associate or joint venture.
The aggregate of the Group’s share of profit or loss of an associate 
and a joint venture is shown on the face of the income statement 
outside operating profit and represents profit or loss after tax and non-
controlling interests in the subsidiaries of the associate or joint venture.
After application of the equity method, the Group determines whether 
it is necessary to recognise an impairment loss on its investment 
in its associate or joint venture. At each reporting date, the Group 
determines whether there is objective evidence that the investment in 
the associate or joint venture is impaired. If there is such evidence, the 
Group calculates the amount of impairment as the difference between 
the recoverable amount of the associate or joint venture and its 
carrying value, and then recognises the loss as ‘Share of results of equity 
accounted investees’ in the Income Statement.
Upon loss of significant influence over the associate or joint control 
over the joint venture, the Group measures and recognises any retained 
investment at its fair value. Any difference between the carrying amount 
of the associate or joint venture upon loss of significant influence or joint 
control and the fair value of the retained investment and proceeds from 
disposal is recognised in income statement.
The accounting policies of associate companies and joint ventures 
conform to those used for similar transactions of the Group. Accounting 
policies that are specific to the business of associate companies are 
discussed below.
Equity method of accounting has been applied for associates and joint 
ventures using their corresponding/matching 12 months financial 
period. In the case of associates, where the reporting dates are different 
to Group reporting dates, adjustments are made for any significant 
transactions or events up to 31 March.
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
Number of
 shares
Effective 
Holding 
%
2022
In Rs.
‘000s
2021
In Rs.
‘000s
Number of
 shares
Effective 
Holding 
%
2022
In Rs.
‘000s
2021
In Rs.
‘000s
27.1  Investments in joint ventures
Braybrooke Residential Properties (Pvt) Ltd
102
50.00
 1,804,500 
 1,804,500 
-
-
 - 
-
DHL Keells (Pvt) Ltd
 1,000,000 
 50.00 
 10,000 
 10,000 
 1,000,000 
 50.00 
 10,000 
10,000
Inchcape Mackinnon Mackenzie Shipping 
(Pvt) Ltd
164,520
60.00
 16,452 
-
164,520
60.00
 16,452 
-
Sentinel Reality (Pvt) Ltd
6,863,673
40.16
 64,949 
 64,199 
-
-
 - 
 - 
27.2 Investments in associates
Quoted
 Nations Trust Bank PLC- Voting shares
76,788,257
29.49
 1,954,510 
 1,699,620 
51,363,384
19.72
 1,367,480 
 1,198,265 
 Nations Trust Bank PLC- Non voting shares
21,386,596
52.10
1,827,923
 1,759,237 
16,964,690
41.33
 1,339,871 
 1,283,868 
Unquoted
 Capitol Hotel Holdings (Pvt) Ltd
 3,249,232 
 19.47 
 325,483 
 325,483 
3,254,832
 19.47 
 325,483 
 325,483 
 Colombo West International Terminal 
(Pvt) Ltd
28,559,696
34.00
 2,855,970 
-
28,559,696
34.00
 2,855,969 
-
 Fairfirst Insurance Ltd
 68,902,870 
 19.80 
 689,718 
 689,718 
-
-
 - 
 - 
 Indra Hotels and Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
 67,050,025 
32.13
 670,742 
 670,742 
-
-
 - 
 - 
 Maersk Lanka (Pvt) Ltd
 30,000 
 30.00 
 150 
 150 
 30,000 
 30.00 
 150 
 150 
 Saffron Aviation (Pvt) Ltd
 24,887,160 
 40.00 
 248,872 
 248,872 
 24,887,160 
 40.00 
 - 
 - 
 Saffron Aviation (Pvt) Ltd - Preference 
shares
135,530,835
-
 506,247 
 432,747 
135,530,835
-
 - 
 432,747 
 South Asia Gateway Terminals (Pvt) Ltd
 159,826,750 
 42.19 
 7,346,367 
 7,346,367 
 159,826,750 
 42.19 
 7,346,367 
 7,346,367 
Cumulative profit accruing to the Group net 
of dividend
6,194,213
 8,207,432 
 - 
 - 
Share of net assets of equity accounted 
investees
 9,349,460 
 5,370,869 
-
 - 
 
 33,865,556  28,629,936
 13,261,772  10,596,880 
The Company has recognized Rs.506 Mn impairment for Saffron Aviation (Pvt) Ltd as the value in use of the investment is lower than its carrying value.

268 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Notes to the Financial Statements
27.  
Investment in equity accounted investees (Contd.)
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2022
2021
2022
2021
In Rs.'000s
Market Value
Quoted shares of Nations Trust Bank PLC
 Voting shares
 3,463,150 
 3,997,077 
2,316,489
 2,673,593
 Non voting shares
 1,284,907 
 1,216,338 
 1,019,239 
964,848
 4,748,057
 5,213,415 
3,335,728
 3,638,441
27.3  Summarised financial information of equity accounted investees
South Asia Gateway
 Terminals (Pvt) Ltd 
 Other associates 
 Joint ventures 
 Total
As at/year ended 31 March
In Rs.‘000s
2022
2021
2022
2021
2022
2021
2022
2021
Group share of;
Revenue
 8,103,449 
 6,639,452 
9,544,444
 7,777,167 
 8,633,085 
 3,353,506 
26,280,978
 17,770,125 
Operating expenses including 
cost of sales
 (4,360,150)
 (4,171,084)
(6,530,011)
 (4,925,057)
 (7,194,726)
 (2,993,364)
(18,084,887)  (12,089,505)
Net finance income
 151,165 
 137,887 
(45,422)
 2,304 
 (107,069)
 (71,809)
(1,326)
 68,382 
Tax expense
 (491,854)
 (420,612)
(579,322)
 (1,098,006)
 (377,650)
 (71,591)
(1,448,826)
 (1,590,209)
Share of results of equity 
accounted investees
 3,402,610 
 2,185,643 
 2,389,689 
 1,756,408 
 953,640 
 216,742 
 6,745,939 
 4,158,793 
Other comprehensive income
 4,448,407 
381,701
 (466,783)
(121,007)
 (3,033)
2,525
 3,978,591 
263,219
Total Comprehensive Income
7,851,017
2,567,344
 1,922,906 
1,635,401
 950,607 
219,267
10,724,530
4,422,012
 
Group share of;
Total assets
 16,226,919 
 10,429,627 
 169,020,223 
123,638,695
 12,522,508 
 6,912,727  197,769,650 140,981,049
Total liabilities
 (5,230,466)
 (3,921,435)  (149,888,167)  (108,995,412)
 (8,964,620)
 (4,287,703)  (164,083,253)  (117,204,550)
Net assets
 10,996,453 
 6,508,192 
 19,132,056 
14,643,283
 3,557,888 
 2,625,024 
 33,686,397 
23,776,499
Goodwill
 - 
 4,674,278 
 165,899 
165,899
13,260
13,260
 179,159 
4,853,437
 10,996,453 
 11,182,470 
 19,297,955 
14,809,182
 3,571,148 
2,638,284
 33,865,556 
 28,629,936 
Capital commitments
-
 - 
-
 142,202 
 4,019,277
 5,776,691 
 4,019,277
 5,918,893 
Other commitments and 
Guarantees
-
 - 
78,043,531 
54,475,196
-
 - 
78,043,531 
54,475,196
Dividend received 
 3,362,755
 3,991,513 
 448,760
 351,138 
 100,000
 100,000 
 3,911,515
 4,442,651 
The share of results of equity accounted investees in the Income Statement and the Statement of Other Comprehensive Income are shown net of all 
related taxes. 
The Group and the Company have neither contingent liabilities nor capital and other commitments towards its associates and joint ventures.
The Group performed its annual impairment test for the goodwill acquired through business combinations of equity accounted investees. The Group 
has recognised Rs.4.7 Bn impairment as the value in use of South Asia Gateway Terminals (Pvt) Ltd was lower than the carrying value of the investment. 
The value in use is determined based on the dividend growth model.
Group's shareholding in Nations Trust Bank PLC (NTB)
The Director of Bank Supervision of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL) 
informed John Keells Holdings PLC, in terms of a decision taken by the 
Monetary Board of the CBSL, the Group has been granted further time 
till 31 December 2021 to reduce its shareholding in the voting shares 
of the NTB to 20 per cent. Subsequent to that, the Group is required 
to reduce its shareholding in the NTB to 15 per cent on or before 31 
December 2022. The Monetary Board has also required NTB to limit the 
voting rights of the Group to 10 per cent with effect from 31 March 
2018. NTB will continue to be an associate company of the Group. As at 
31 March 2022, the Group has an economic interest of 32.57 per cent in 
NTB. The Group, requested for an extension by letter dated 15 November 
2021, and a response is awaited. 

269
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance       Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
Significant accounting policies that are specific to the business of 
equity accounted investees
Nations Trust Bank PLC (Bank)
Revenue from contracts with customers
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the 
economic beneﬁts will ﬂow to the Bank and the revenue can be reliably 
measured. The following speciﬁc recognition criteria must also be met 
before revenue is recognised.
Interest income
The Bank calculates interest income by applying the EIR to the gross 
carrying amount of ﬁnancial assets other than credit-impaired assets. 
The Bank ceases the recognition of interest income on assets when it is 
probable that the economic beneﬁt associated will not continue to ﬂow 
to the Bank. Interest income on all trading assets and ﬁnancial assets 
mandatorily required to be measured at fair value through profit or loss 
is also recognised using the contractual interest rate in interest income.
Net fee and commission income
The Bank earns fee and commission income from a diverse range of 
services it provides to its customers. Fee income can be divided in to the 
following three categories:
• Fee income earned from services that are provided over a certain 
period of time Fees earned for the provision of services are 
recognised as revenue as the services are provided. These fees include 
commission income and asset management fees, custody and other 
management and advisory fees.
• Fee income from providing ﬁnancial services are earned on the 
execution of a signiﬁcant act Fees and commissions arising from 
negotiating or participating in the negotiation of a transaction for 
a third party, such as the arrangement/participation or negotiation 
of the lending transactions or other securities are recognised on 
completion of the underlying transaction. Fees or components of fees 
that are linked to a certain performance are recognised after fulﬁlling 
the corresponding criteria.
• Fee income forming an integral part of the corresponding ﬁnancial 
instrument fees that the Bank considers to be an integral part of the 
corresponding ﬁnancial instruments include: loan origination fees, 
loan commitment fees for loans that are likely to be drawn down and 
other credit related fees. The recognition of these fees (together with 
any incremental costs) form an integral part of the corresponding 
ﬁnancial instruments and are recognised as interest income through 
an adjustment to the EIR. The exception is, when it is unlikely that a 
loan will be drawn down, the loan commitment fees are recognised 
as revenue on expiry.
Dividend income
Dividend income is recognised when the Bank’s right to receive the 
payment is established which is generally when the shareholders 
approve the dividend.
Net trading income
Results arising from trading activities include all gains and losses from 
changes in fair value.
Rental income
Rental income is recognised on a straight line basis.
Other income 
Other income is recognised on an accrual basis.
South Asia Gateway Terminals (Pvt) Ltd
Stevedoring revenue 
Stevedoring revenue is recognised at the berthing time of the vessel. 
Storage revenue
Storage revenue is recognised on the issue of delivery advice. 
South Asia Gateway Terminals (Pvt) Ltd uses United States Dollar (USD) 
as its functional currency.
Fairfirst Insurance Ltd
Revenue from insurance contracts
General insurance business-gross written premium
Gross written premiums (GWP) comprise the total premiums received/ 
receivable for the whole period of cover provided by contracts entered 
into during the accounting period. GWP is generally written upon 
inception of the policy. Rebates that form part of the premium rate, such 
as no-claim rebates, are deducted from the gross written premium.
Insurance contract liabilities - general
Non-life insurance contract liabilities include the outstanding claims 
provision (Reserve for gross outstanding and incurred but not reported, 
and incurred and not enough reported - IBNR/ IBNER) and the provision 
for unearned premium and the provision for premium deficiency.
Surcharge Tax on taxable profit of equity accounted investees
South Asia Gateway Terminals (Pvt) Ltd (SAGT) and Nations Trust Bank 
PLC (NTB) are liable to pay Surcharge Tax on the respective individual 
entity level. Total Surcharge Tax liability of Rs.1,565 Mn and Rs.1,889 Mn 
will be recognised as an adjustment to opening retained earnings in 
the next year's financial statements of SAGT and NTB respectively. On 20 
April 2022, SAGT and NTB paid Rs.782.5 Mn and Rs.944.5 Mn respectively 
on account of the first instalment of the Surcharge Tax liability with the 
balance payable on 20 July 2022.

270 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Notes to the Financial Statements
28. 
Non current financial assets
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2022
2021
2022
2021
In Rs.'000s
Other quoted equity investments 
 341 
 87 
-
-
Other unquoted equity investments
 28.1 
 133,408 
 147,665 
 87,563 
 92,346 
Other non equity investments
 28.2 
 48,556,740 
 62,442,051 
 2,995,474 
 17,518,775 
 48,690,489 
 62,589,803 
 3,083,037 
 17,611,121 
28.1   Other unquoted equity investments 
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
In Rs.‘000s
Number of
shares
2022
2021
Number of
shares
2022
2021
Asia Power (Pvt) Ltd
 388,527 
 68,923 
 75,846 
 388,527 
 68,923 
 75,846 
Other equity instruments
 - 
 64,485 
 71,819 
 - 
 18,640 
 16,500 
 133,408 
 147,665 
 87,563 
 92,346 
28.2   Other non equity investments 
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2022
2021
2022
2021
In Rs.'000s
Bank deposits
 333,707 
 18,503,408 
 - 
 16,729,867 
Debentures 
 9,553,315 
 9,955,243 
 - 
 - 
Preference shares
 373,701 
 351,430 
 - 
 - 
Government securities
 31,752,878 
29,703,638 
 - 
 - 
Deposits with non bank institutions
 298,784 
 367,613 
 - 
 - 
Loans to executives
28.3
 1,048,842 
 990,562 
 66,659 
 59,592 
Loans to life policyholders
28.4
 1,952,394 
 1,840,841 
 - 
 - 
Cash flow hedge
 2,928,815 
 729,316
 2,928,815 
 729,316
Asset backed securities
 314,304 
- 
 - 
- 
 48,556,740 
 62,442,051
 2,995,474 
 17,518,775 
28.3  Loans to executives
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2022
2021
2022
2021
In Rs.'000s
At the beginning of the year
 1,332,400 
 1,296,464 
 78,998 
 90,178 
Loans granted / transfers
 718,516 
 516,846 
 34,305 
 21,057 
Recoveries
 (675,392)
 (480,910)
 (23,566)
 (32,237)
At the end of the year
 1,375,524 
 1,332,400 
 89,737 
 78,998 
Receivable within one year
 326,682 
 341,838 
 23,078 
 19,406 
Receivable between one and five years
 1,048,842 
 990,562 
 66,659 
 59,592 
 1,375,524 
 1,332,400 
 89,737 
 78,998 

271
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance       Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
28.4  Loans to life policyholders
GROUP
As at 31 March
2022
2021
In Rs.'000s
At the beginning of the year
 1,840,841 
1,627,555
Loans granted / transfers
878,410
885,798
Recoveries
(766,857)
(672,512)
At the end of the year
 1,952,394 
1,840,841
29. 
Other non current assets 
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
Note
2022
2021
2022
2021
In Rs.'000s
Pre paid cost
 282,339 
341,600
119,755
92,668
Work-in-progress - Waterfront project
29.1
 179,669,639 
 103,260,711 
 - 
 - 
Non current advances
 968,001 
977,904
 - 
 - 
 180,919,979 
 104,580,215 
 119,755 
 92,668 
29.1  Work-in-progress - Waterfront project
GROUP
As at 31 March
2022
2021
In Rs.'000s
Freehold property*
 19,345,604 
 12,703,071 
Leasehold property*
 7,584,983 
 5,106,604 
Other constructions in progress
 152,739,052 
 82,275,284 
Contractor advances
 - 
 3,175,752 
 179,669,639 
 103,260,711 
* The freehold and leasehold property are located at Glennie Street and Justice Akbar Mawatha, Colombo 2.
Other non current assets represents the construction work in progress, which mainly consists of Freehold Land, advance paid on obtained Lease Land 
and oth er project cost incurred. Freehold land included under other non-current asset is carried at cost. Lease prepaid in advance consists of the 
prepayment made to obtaining the lease land rights for 99 years. Other project cost includes advances paid to contractors, directly attributable cost 
incurred on the project and borrowing cost capitalized.
30.  
Inventories 
Accounting policy 
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Net 
realisable value is the estimated selling price less estimated costs of 
completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale. 
The costs incurred in bringing inventories to its present location and 
condition, are accounted for as follows:
• Raw materials - On a weighted average basis
• Finished goods and work-in-progress - At the cost of direct materials, 
direct labour and an appropriate proportion of fixed production 
overheads based on normal operating capacity but excluding 
borrowing costs
• Other inventories – At actual cost
During the year ended 31 March 2022, Rs.57 Mn (2021 - Rs.100 Mn) was 
recognised as an expense for inventories carried at net realisable value. 
This is recognised in cost of sales and other operating expenses. 
GROUP
As at 31 March
2022
2021
In Rs.'000s
Inventories 
Raw materials
 1,353,492 
 628,872 
Finished goods
 12,581,519 
 7,391,309 
Produce stocks
 241,284 
 253,605 
Other stocks
 3,028,486 
 2,168,124 
Apartments and commercial space
 19,020,106 
 43,854,213 
 36,224,887 
 54,296,123 

272 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Notes to the Financial Statements
31.  
Trade and other receivables 
A receivable represents the Group’s right to an amount of consideration that is unconditional. Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are 
generally on terms of 30 to 90 days. During the year, Rs.680 Mn (2021 - Rs.1,314 Mn) was recognised as a provision for expected credit losses on trade 
receivables.
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
Note
2022
2021
2022
2021
In Rs.'000s
Trade and other receivables
 25,550,066 
 16,192,825 
 80,836 
 95,374 
Reinsurance receivables
 1,135,652 
 589,306 
 - 
 - 
Premiums receivable
482,948
 332,729 
 - 
 - 
Loans to executives
28.3
326,682
 341,838 
 23,078 
 19,406 
 27,495,348 
 17,456,698 
 103,914 
 114,780 
32.  
Other current assets 
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2022
2021
2022
2021
In Rs.'000s
Prepayments and non cash receivables
 9,539,625 
 3,293,460 
 802,463 
156,760
Tax refunds
 2,374,836 
 2,625,993 
 14,141 
14,141
 11,914,461 
 5,919,453 
 816,604 
 170,901 
33.  
Short term investments 
Short-term investments are liquid assets or cash, which are being held for a short period of time, with the primary purpose of controlling the tactical 
asset allocation. 
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
Note
2022
2021
2022
2021
In Rs.'000s
Quoted equities at market value
33.1
 2,626,213 
 3,471,266 
 - 
 - 
More than 3 months and less than 1 year
 Debentures
 1,454,315 
 1,236,380 
 - 
 - 
 Bank deposits
3,201,549
 35,678,228
 510,067 
34,553,213
 Government securities
 930,118 
 3,421,136 
 - 
2,418,252
8,212,195
 43,807,010 
 510,067 
36,971,465
Less than 3 months
 Debentures
 - 
 53,945 
 - 
-
 Bank deposits
92,735,338
 18,367,744 
 83,462,593 
 13,698,244 
 Government securities
9,774,011
 7,034,062 
 - 
 921,328 
Reported in statement of cash flows
102,509,349
 25,455,751 
 83,462,593 
 14,619,572 
110,721,544
 69,262,761 
 83,972,660 
 51,591,037 

273
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance       Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
33.1  Quoted equities at market value - Group
Number of shares
Cost
Market value
As at 31 March
2022
2021
2022
In Rs.
‘000s
2021
In Rs.
‘000s
2022
In Rs.
‘000s
2021
In Rs.
‘000s
Access Engineering PLC
 474,129 
 - 
 11,320 
 - 
 7,112 
 - 
Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC
 381,551 
 - 
 14,206 
 - 
 13,545 
 - 
Aitken Spence PLC
 2,227,985 
 - 
 186,785 
 - 
 164,202 
 - 
BPPL Holdings PLC
 229,804 
 - 
 4,854 
 - 
 4,527 
 - 
Cargills (Ceylon) PLC
 - 
 859,786 
 - 
 165,034 
 - 
 202,050 
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC
 94,600 
 144,425 
 6,375 
 96,611 
 3,680 
 89,796 
Ceylon Tobacco Company PLC
 195,932 
 93,780 
 190,646 
 90,537 
 112,906 
 91,881 
CIC Holdings PLC
 371,596 
 - 
 24,569 
 - 
 14,158 
 - 
Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC
 2,019,826 
 7,729,919 
 177,118 
 676,842 
 126,643 
 660,908 
C T Holdings PLC
 - 
 394,306 
 - 
 66,777 
 - 
 67,032 
Dialog Axiata PLC
 25,974,333 
 14,548,770 
 314,495 
 168,801 
 259,743 
 189,134 
ExpoLanka Holdings PLC
 101,495 
 - 
 21,658 
 - 
 21,086 
 - 
Hayleys Fabric PLC
 4,719,190 
 3,916,980 
 160,047 
 48,832 
 137,328 
 55,229 
Hatton National Bank PLC
 1,465,124 
 5,136,866 
 202,510 
 735,996 
 160,065 
 647,245 
Hela Apparel Holdings PLC 
 12,990,515 
 - 
 194,858 
 - 
 167,578 
 - 
Hsenid Business Solutions PLC
 1,403,217 
 - 
 17,540 
 - 
 25,258 
 - 
John Keells Holdings PLC
 5,527,500 
 4,547,381 
 696,856 
 555,142 
 801,488 
 675,286 
John Keells Hotels PLC
 3,332,244 
 2,509,603 
 30,262 
 20,077 
 38,987 
 23,841 
Lion Brevery (Ceylon) PLC
 - 
 262,995 
 - 
 141,965 
 - 
 149,644 
Nestle Lanka PLC
 - 
 152,171 
 - 
 217,410 
 - 
 174,464 
Renuka Agri Foods PLC
 12,565,759 
 - 
 86,568 
 - 
 45,237 
-
Sampath Bank PLC
 1,804,326 
 1,717,668 
 113,679 
 115,893 
 82,638 
 92,411 
Seylan Bank PLC
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Sunshine Holdings PLC
 980,762 
 2,255,682 
 37,901 
 33,459 
 35,896 
 59,776 
TeeJay Lanka PLC
 8,762,843 
 7,314,236 
 308,039 
 210,337 
 348,761 
 292,569 
Tokyo Cement Company (Lanka) PLC
 1,633,487 
 - 
 95,068 
 - 
 55,375 
 - 
 2,895,354 
 3,343,712 
 2,626,213 
 3,471,266 
Above list mainly comprises of the investments made by Union Assurance PLC (UA) under the unit linked equity tracker fund.
34.  
Stated capital and other components of equity
Accounting policy
The ordinary shares of John Keells Holdings PLC are quoted in the Colombo Stock Exchange and the Global Depository Receipts are listed on the 
Luxembourg Stock Exchange. The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are eligible for one 
vote per share at General Meetings of the Company. The Group has in place an Employee Share Option Plan. Please refer Note 35 for further details.
34.1  Stated capital 
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2022
2021
Number of
shares
In ‘000s
Value of
shares
In Rs.‘000s
Number of
shares
In ‘000s
Value of
shares
In Rs.‘000s
Fully paid ordinary shares
At the beginning of the year
 1,319,664 
 63,101,661 
 1,318,551 
 62,881,295 
Share options exercised
 211 
 37,209 
1,113
 220,366 
Private placement of ordinary shares
 65,042 
10,048,991
-
-
At the end of the year
 1,384,917 
73,187,861
 1,319,664
63,101,661

274 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Notes to the Financial Statements
The revaluation reserve consists of the net surplus on the revaluation of 
property, plant and equipment and present value of acquired in-force 
business (PVIB).
The foreign currency translation reserve comprises the net exchange 
movement arising from the currency translation of foreign operations 
and equity accounted investees into Sri Lankan rupees.
The other capital reserve is used to recognise the value of equity-
settled share-based payments provided to employees, including key 
management personnel, as part of their remuneration.
Restricted regulatory reserve
Union Assurance PLC (UA)
Based on the direction issued by the IRCSL dated 20 March 2018, and 
subsequent approval, UA has transferred Rs.. 3,382 Mn attributable to 
non-participating and non unit fund of unit linked business from the 
life policyholder fund to the life shareholder fund (SHF). The distribution 
of the one-off surplus to shareholders, held as part of the Restricted 
The regulatory Reserve, is subject to meeting governance requirements 
stipulated by the IRCSL and can only be released upon receiving 
approval from the IRCSL. The one-off surplus in the SHF is represented by 
government debt securities as per the direction of the IRCSL. 
Nations Trust Bank PLC (NTB)
The statutory reserve fund is maintained as per the requirements in 
terms of Section 20 of the Banking Act No 30 of 1988. Accordingly, a sum 
equivalent to 5% of proﬁt after tax transferred to the reserve fund until 
the reserve fund is equal to 50% of the Bank’s Stated Capital. Thereafter, 
a further 2% of proﬁts will be transferred until the said reserve fund is 
equal to the Bank’s stated Capital.
Cash flow hedge reserve includes the fair value changes on the effective 
portion of interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges. 
The fair value reserve of financial assets at FVOCI includes changes in fair 
value of financial instruments designated as financial assets at FVOCI.
The number of shares in issue as at 31 March 2022 was 1,384,916,632 
which include global depository receipts (GDRs) of 1,320,942 (2021 
-1,320,942 ). Further information on the composition of shares in issue is 
given under the Share Information section of the Annual Report. 
A quantum of 36,788,659 shares (2021 - 38,047,143) have been reserved 
to be issued under the employee share option plan as at 31 March 2022.
Private placement of ordinary shares 
In November 2021, the Company resolved to raise funds through a 
private placement of ordinary shares for a maximum cumulative amount 
of the Rs. equivalent of USD 80 million to the Asian Development Bank in 
two phases. In January 2022, the first phase of the above transaction was 
completed, where JKH issued 65,042,006 ordinary shares at Rs.154.50 per 
share to ADB for a consideration of the Rs. equivalent of USD 50 million, 
resulting in a post-issue dilution of 4.70 per cent subsequent to the first 
phase. 
Additionally, in terms of second phase, of the Company also issued 
39,025,204 non-tradable/non-transferable options, entitling ADB to 
subscribe for additional new ordinary shares of the Company, for an 
investment amount of up to a maximum of the Rs. equivalent of USD 
30 million. The options exercise price would be based on the volume 
weighted average price of the Company’s ordinary shares as quoted on 
the CSE during the 90 calendar days ending immediately prior to the 
option exercise date, subject to the floor price of Rs.165.00 and cap price 
of Rs.200.00 and is exercisable between 19 October 2022 and 18 January 
2023.
Based on the above, the maximum number of ordinary shares that would 
potentially be issued under the entire transaction, assuming all options 
are subscribed for, will be 104,067,210, thereby capping the post-issue 
dilution on the conclusion of both phases to a maximum of 7.31 per cent.
34.2 
Other components of equity 
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2022
2021
2022
2021
In Rs.'000s
Revaluation reserve
 41,012,553 
 37,777,543 
 - 
 - 
Foreign currency translation reserve
 79,185,589 
 26,424,124 
 - 
 - 
Other capital reserve
 3,060,095 
 2,863,766 
 3,060,095 
 2,863,766 
Restricted regulatory reserve
 3,626,604 
 3,626,604 
 - 
 - 
Cash flow hedge reserve
 2,928,815 
 349,024 
 2,928,815 
 729,316 
Fair value reserve of financial assets at FVOCI
 (802,243)
1,362,079
 21,171 
 28,094 
129,011,413 
72,403,140
 6,010,081 
 3,621,176 

275
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance       Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
35.  
Share-based payment plans 
Accounting Policy
Employee share option plan - Equity-settled transactions
Employees of the Group receive remuneration in the form of share-
based payment transactions, whereby employees render services as 
consideration for equity instruments (equity-settled transactions).
The Group applies SLFRS 2 Share Based Payments in accounting for 
employee remuneration in the form of shares from 1 April 2013 onwards.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with 
a corresponding increase in other capital reserves in equity, over the 
period in which the performance and service conditions are fulfilled. 
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at 
each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which 
the vesting period has expired and the Group’s best estimate of the 
number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest. The expense or 
credit to the income statement for a period represents the movement 
in cumulative expense recognised as at the beginning and end of that 
period and is recognised in employee benefits expense.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, 
except for equity-settled transactions where vesting is conditional 
upon a market or non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting 
irrespective of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is 
satisfied, provided that all other performance and service conditions are 
satisfied.
Where the terms of an equity-settled transaction award are modified, 
the minimum expense recognised is the expense as if the terms had not 
been modified, if the original terms of the award are met. An additional 
expense is recognised for any modification that increases the total fair 
value of the share-based payment transaction, or is otherwise beneficial 
to the employee as measured at the date of modification.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share 
dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per share (further details 
are given in Note 19.2).
Employee share option scheme
Under the John Keells Group’s Employees share option scheme (ESOP), 
share options of the parent are granted to executives of the Group 
generally with more than 12 months of service. The exercise price of the 
share options is equal to the 30 days volume weighted average market 
price of the underlying shares on the date of grant. The share options 
vest over a period of four years and is dependent on a performance 
criteria and a service criteria. The performance criteria being a minimum 
performance achievement of “Met Expectations” and service criteria 
being that the employee has to be in employment at the time the share 
options vest. The fair value of the share options is estimated at the grant 
date using a binomial option pricing model, taking into account the 
terms and conditions upon which the share options were granted.
The contractual term for each option granted is five years. There are no 
cash settlement alternatives. The Group does not have a past practice of 
cash settlement for these share options.
Share-based payment plans 
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
2022
2021
2022
2021
In Rs.'000s
Total expense arising from share-based payment transactions
 204,618
225,007
 61,117
 66,035
Movements in the year
The following table illustrates the number (No.) and weighted average exercise prices (WAEP) of, and movements in, share options during the year;
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2022
2021
2022
2021
No.
WAEP
No.
WAEP
No.
WAEP
No.
WAEP
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 
 38,047,143
 150.06
 41,563,469 
 152.67 
 12,771,300 
 150.82 
 14,419,940 
 152.76 
Granted during the year
6,585,800
136.64
 6,557,100 
 132.86 
2,017,300
136.64
 1,819,700 
132.86
Transfers
-
-
-
-
-
-
 (56,195)
159.13
Exercised during the year
(210,675)
137.28
 (1,113,183)
 142.81 
-
-
 (363,100)
142.83
Expired during the year
(7,633,609)
143.93
 (8,960,243)
 150.47 
(2,700,363)
143.06 
 (3,049,045)
 150.13 
Outstanding at the end of the year
36,788,659
149.01
 38,047,143 
 150.06 
12,088,237 
150.18
 12,771,300 
 150.82 
Exercisable at the end of the year
21,929,305
156.84
 22,717,896 
 155.17 
7,412,529 
158.31
 8,392,388 
 155.40 

276 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Notes to the Financial Statements
Accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions 
The Group measures the cost of equity-settled transactions with 
employees by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments on 
the date at which they are granted. Estimating fair value for share-based 
payment transactions require determination of the most appropriate 
valuation model, which is dependent on the terms and conditions of 
the grant. This estimate also requires the determination of the most 
appropriate inputs to the valuation model, including the expected life of 
the share option, volatility and dividend yield and making assumptions 
about them.
The expected life of the share options is based on historical data and 
current expectations and is not necessarily indicative of exercise patterns 
that may occur. The expected volatility reflects the assumption that 
the historical volatility over a period similar to the life of the options 
is indicative of future trends, which may not necessarily be the actual 
outcome either.
The following information was used and results were generated using 
binomial model for ESOP.
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2022
Plan no 10
award 3
2021
Plan no 10
award 2
2020
Plan no 10
award 1
2019
Plan no 9
award 3
2018
Plan no 9
award 2
Dividend yield (%)
3.28
3.87
 3.62 
 3.76 
 3.99 
Expected volatility (%)
22.37
21.35
 17.47 
 17.77 
 17.54 
Risk free interest rate (%)
8.87
6.44
 9.83 
 10.09 
 11.48 
Expected life of share options (Years)
5
5
5
5
5
Weighted average share price at the grant date (Rs.)
132.63
134.74
 138.70 
 154.10 
 173.25 
Weighted average remaining contractual life for the share options outstanding 
(Years)
3
3
3
3
3
Weighted average fair value of options granted during the year (Rs.) 
44.21
44.91
 46.23 
51.37
 56.27 
Exercise price for options outstanding at the end of the year (Rs.)
136.64
132.86
 136.97 
 154.10 
 173.25 
Exercise price for options outstanding at the end of the year (Rs.) (adjusted as at 31 
March 2022)
136.64
132.86
 136.97 
154.14
173.30
36. 
Insurance contract liabilities
Accounting policy 
Insurance contract liabilities 
The long term and unit linked insurance business provisions are based on the recommendation of the independent external actuary following 
annual valuation of the life insurance business. The actuarial valuation takes into account all liabilities, including contingent liabilities and is based on 
assumptions recommended by the actuary.
36.1  Insurance contract liabilities 
GROUP
As at 31 March
2022
2021
In Rs.'000s
Insurance contract liabilities
 50,939,495 
 44,791,714 
Unclaimed benefits
 409,828 
 368,897 
 51,349,323 
 45,160,611 
Life insurance contract liabilities 
Life insurance contract liabilities are recognised when contracts are 
entered into and premiums are charged. These liabilities are measured 
by using the gross premium valuation method as prescribed by the 
Regulation of Insurance Industry Act, No. 43 of 2000. The liability is 
determined as the discounted value of the expected contractual cash 
outflows less the discounted value of the expected premiums. Valuation 
assumptions are derived based on the best estimate experience 
with a prescribed risk margin to allow for adverse deviations. Non 
participating liabilities are discounted using the risk free yields. The 
value of participating policy liabilities is the higher of the value of the 
guaranteed benefits liability and the total benefits liability, derived at 
the participating insurance fund level. In calculating the guaranteed 
benefits liability, only the guaranteed benefits are considered and the 
cashflows are discounted using the risk free interest rate yield curve. 
Total benefits liability includes all the guaranteed and non guaranteed 
benefits, and discount the cash flows using the fund based yield of the 
participating insurance fund. The Liability is de-recognised when the 
35.  
Share-based payment plans (Contd.)

277
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance       Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
contract expenses is discharged or is cancelled. At each reporting date, 
an assessment is made of whether the recognised life insurance liabilities 
are adequate, by using a liability adequacy test.
Liability adequacy test (LAT)
At each reporting date, an assessment is made of whether the recognised 
life insurance liabilities are adequate by using an existing liability adequacy 
test as laid out under SLFRS 4. The liability value is adjusted to the extent 
that it is adequate to meet future benefits and expenses. In performing 
the adequacy test, current best estimates of future contractual cash 
flows, including related cash flows such as claims handling and policy 
administration expenses, policyholder options and guarantees, as well as 
investment income from assets backing such liabilities, are used.
Any deficiency is recognised in the income statement by setting up a 
provision for liability adequacy.
Accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions
Product classification
SLFRS 4 requires contracts written by insurers to be classified as either 
insurance contracts or investment contracts depending on the level of 
insurance risk transferred. 
Insurance contracts are contracts under which one party (the Insurer) 
accepts significant insurance risk from another party (the policyholder) 
by agreeing to compensate the policyholder if a specified uncertain 
future event (the insured event) adversely affects the policyholder. 
Significant insurance risk exists if an insured event could cause an insurer 
to pay significant additional benefits in any scenario, excluding scenarios 
that lack commercial substance (i.e. have no discernible effect on the 
economics of the transaction). The classification of contracts identifies 
both the insurance contracts that the company issues and reinsurance 
contracts that the company holds. 
Contracts where the company does not assume a significant insurance 
risk is classified as investment contracts. 
Investment contracts are those contracts that transfer significant 
financial risks and no significant insurance risks. Financial risk is the risk 
of a possible future change in one or more of a specified interest rates, 
financial instrument prices, commodity prices, foreign exchange rates, 
index of price or rates, credit ratings or credit index or other variables, 
provided in the case of a non financial variable that the variable is not 
specific to a party to the contract.
Once a contract has been classified as an insurance contract, it remains 
an insurance contract for the remainder of its lifetime, even if the 
insurance risk reduces significantly during this period, unless all rights 
and obligations are extinguished or expired. Investment contracts 
can, however, be reclassified as insurance contracts after inception if 
insurance risk becomes significant.
Insurance and investment contracts are further classified as being either 
with or without discretionary participating features.
Discretionary participating features (DPF)
DPF is a contractual right to receive, as a supplement to guaranteed 
benefits, additional benefits that;
•  are likely to be a significant portion of the total contractual benefits;
•  the amount or timing of which is contractually at the discretion of the 
issuer; and contractually based on:
•  The performance of a specified pool of contracts or a specified type of 
contract,
•  Realised and or unrealised investment returns on a specified pool of 
assets held by the issuer, and
•  The profit or loss of the company, fund or other entity that issues the 
contract.
Derivatives embedded in an insurance contract or an investment 
contract with DPF are separated and fair valued through the income 
statement unless the embedded derivative itself is an insurance contract 
or investment contract with DPF. The derivative is also not separated if 
the host insurance contract and / or investment contract with DPF is 
measured at fair value through the profit and loss.
IRCSL regulations and the terms and conditions of these contracts 
set out the bases for the determination of the amounts on which the 
additional discretionary benefits are based (the DPF eligible surplus) 
and within which the company may exercise its discretion as to the 
quantum and timing of their payments to contract holders. At least 90% 
of the eligible surplus must be attributed to contract holders as a group 
(which can include future contract holders) and the amount and timing 
of the distribution to individual contract holders is at the discretion 
of the company, subject to the advice of the appointed actuary. 
All DPF liabilities including unallocated surpluses, both guaranteed 
and discretionary, at the end of the reporting period are held within 
insurance contract liabilities, as appropriate.
Valuation of life insurance contract liabilities
Long duration contract liabilities included in the life insurance fund, 
result primarily from traditional participating and non participating life 
insurance products. Short duration contract liabilities are primarily group 
term, accident and health insurance products. The actuarial reserves 
have been established based on the following; 
•  Non participating liabilities are discounted using risk free yield curve 
provided by the IRCSL and the participating liabilities are based on the 
fund yield of the life fund.
•  Mortality rates based on published mortality tables adjusted for actual 
experience as required by regulations issued by the IRCSL.
•  Surrender rates based on actual experience.
The amount of policyholder dividend to be paid is determined annually 
by the company. The dividend includes life policyholders share of net 
income that is required to be allocated by the insurance contract.
Mortality, morbidity, longevity, investment returns, expenses, lapses, 
surrender rates and discount rates were the assumptions used for the 
valuation of insurance contract liabilities. For those contracts that insure 
risk related to longevity, prudent allowance is made for expected future 
mortality improvements, as well as wide ranging changes to the life 
style, which could result in significant changes to the expected future 
mortality exposure.

278 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Notes to the Financial Statements
Estimates are also made for future investment income arising from the 
assets backing Life Insurance contracts. These estimates are based on 
current market returns, as well as expectations about future economic 
and financial developments.
Assumptions on future expenses are based on current expense levels, 
adjusted for expected expense inflation, if appropriate. Lapse and 
surrender rates are based on the company’s historical experience of 
lapses and surrenders.
There is no material impact on the assumptions used for the 
valuation of insurance contract liabilities during the reporting period. 
Insurance contract liability valuations are primarily based on long-
term assumptions, except for the risk-free interest rate and yield 
which increased during the second half of the year. This was used for 
discounting nonparticipating insurance contract liabilities and Universal 
life insurance contract liabilities respectively at Union Assurance PLC. 
Valuation of life insurance fund
The valuation of the conventional life insurance fund as at 31 
December 2021 was carried out by Mr. Vivek Jalan FIA, FIAI of 
Willis Towers Watson India (Pvt) Ltd and a sum of Rs.1600 million 
was transferred from the conventional life insurance fund to the 
shareholders fund for the year 2021. Subsequent to the transfer the  
conventional life fund stood at Rs.48,749 million.
Similarly the non unit fund of linked long term business valuation 
was carried out by Mr. Vivek Jalan FIA, FIAI of Willis Towers Watson 
India Private Limited and the non unit fund stood at Rs.169 million. 
In the opinion of the consultant actuary, the admissible assets of 
the conventional life insurance fund and the non unit fund of linked 
long term business as at 31 December 2021 is adequate to cover the 
liabilities of the funds.
As at 31 March 2022, an internal actuarial valuation has been carried 
out for the conventional life insurance fund and the non unit fund of 
linked long term business based on long-term assumptions, risk-free 
interest rate and yield which were increased during the latter half of 
the year. It is our opinion that the admissible assets are adequate to 
cover the liabilities of the funds. 
One - off surplus arising from change in policy
liability valuation
The one-off surplus comprises of Rs.432.5 Mn attributable to 
participating business and Rs.2.5 Mn attributable to unit linked fund 
and Rs.3,382 Mn attributable to non-participating and non-unit fund 
of unit linked business.
Based on the directions issued by the IRCSL dated 20 March 2018 
and subsequent approval, the Company has transferred Rs.3,382 Mn 
attributable to non - participating and non-unit fund of unit linked 
business from life policyholder fund through Income Statement to 
life shareholder fund and held as part of the Restricted Regulatory 
Reserve under equity in the statement of financial position.
One - off Surplus was determined as the difference between the 
NPV solvency basis liability and the GPV distribution basis liability as 
of 31 December 2015. This is calculated for Participating and other 
than participating funds, separately. Above basis is in line with the 
‘Minimum One - off Surplus’ calculation basis provided in the IRCSL 
guideline.
Movement in Life Insurance fund
As at 31 December
In Rs.‘000s
2021
2020
Conventional life insurance fund
Balance as at 1 January
 41,826,947 
 35,448,033 
Increase in life insurance fund before surplus transfer to share holders
 8,525,435 
 7,061,324 
Transfer to shareholders
 (1,600,000)
 (825,000)
Effect of taxation on surplus/bonus transferred to policyholders
 (27,162)
 51,059 
Net change in unclaimed benefits
 23,751 
 91,531 
Balance as at 31 December 
 48,748,971 
 41,826,947 
Non unit fund of linked life insurance contracts
Balance as at 1 January
 54,710 
 41,718 
Increase in non unit fund of linked life insurance before surplus transfer to share holders
 53,173 
 10,416 
Transfer to shareholders
 - 
 - 
Net change in unclaimed benefits
 61,293 
 2,576 
Balance as at 31 December 
 169,176 
 54,710 
 48,918,147 
 41,881,657 
36. 
Insurance contract liabilities (Contd.)

279
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance       Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
Liability adequacy test (LAT) - Life insurance contract liabilities
As at 31 December 2021, liability adequacy test was performed by the 
appointed actuary Mr. Vivek Jalan FIA, FIAI of Willis Towers Watson India 
Private Limited who concluded that, the liability value is sufficient to 
meet future benefits and expenses. Hence, no provision was required to 
be made for any premium deficiency.
36.2  Change in life insurance contract liabilities 
The results of Union Assurance PLC’s (UA) life business segment is 
consolidated into the Group’s Consolidated Income Statement. The 
change in life insurance contract liabilities represents the transfer to 
the Life Fund, the difference between all income and expenditure 
attributable to life policy holders during the year. 
Summarised financial information
For the year ended 31 March
2022
2021
In Rs.'000s
Total Revenue
 15,225,571 
 13,221,167 
Cost of sales
 (7,829,465)
 (6,168,801)
Gross profit
 7,396,106 
 7,052,366 
Operating expenses including distribution and administration expenses
 (4,377,144)
 (4,192,748)
Net finance income
 5,281,652 
 5,023,000 
Profit attributable to shareholders of UA
 (1,884,315)
 (850,926)
Change in insurance contract liabilities
 6,416,299 
 7,031,692 
Union Assurance PLC follows a risk mitigation approach for inherent uncertainty regarding the occurrence, amount or timing of insurance contract 
liabilities.
The following table describes headline risks and responses.
Headline risk
Risk response
Investment return on underlying items failing below guaranteed minimum 
rates
Management discretion to determine amount and timing of policy 
holders bonuses (within limits)
Insufficient fees to cover cost of guarantees and expenses
Hedging programme
Differences in duration and yield of assets and liabilities
• Matching of assets and liabilities cash flows
• Investing in investment grade assets
Policy holder behavioural risk
Surrender penalty
37.  
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 
37.1  Movement 
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2022
2021
2022
2021
In Rs.'000s
At the beginning of the year
 128,473,113 
 56,131,366 
 47,186,858 
 605,747 
Cash movement
Loans obtained
 53,876,802 
 71,729,856 
 3,000,000 
 43,889,749 
Repayments
 (34,946,688)
(6,753,731)
 (1,474,806)
 (540,608)
Non cash movement
Accrued Interest
 948,393 
 1,138,330 
134,057
 428,650 
Exchange differences
 51,194,726 
6,227,292
 18,350,918 
 2,803,320 
At the end of the year
 199,546,346 
 128,473,113 
 67,197,027 
 47,186,858 
Repayable within one year
40,624,448
 9,507,473 
 2,562,994 
 3,007,368 
Repayable after one year
158,921,898
 118,965,640 
 64,634,033 
 44,179,490 
 199,546,346 
 128,473,113 
 67,197,027 
 47,186,858 

280 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Notes to the Financial Statements
37.2  Security and repayment terms
As at 31 March
Nominal 
Interest rate
Repayment terms
Assets Pledged and Collaterals
2022
In Rs.‘000s
2021
In Rs.‘000s
Company
John Keells Holdings 
PLC
1 month LIBOR 
plus margin 
36 monthly installments 
commencing from March 2019
-
-
306,013
Fixed rate
28 quarterly installments 
commencing from December 2020
-
 5,201,085
5,876,085 
Fixed rate
60 monthly installments 
commencing from December 2020
-
 5,550,000
 5,925,000 
USD 117 million 
at 6-month LIBOR 
plus margin and 
USD 58 million at 
a fixed rate
12 semi annual installments 
commencing from December 2024 
after 4 years grace period
Freehold land held under Vauxhall 
Land Developments (Pvt) Ltd (VLD)
Pledge of 1,086 Mn shares held by 
JKH in VLD
Pledge of 67.8 Mn shares held by 
JKH in Ceylon Cold Stores PLC
 53,558,442
35,079,760 
Fixed rate
60 monthly installments 
commencing from June 2021
-
 2,887,500
-
67,197,027
47,186,858
Group companies
Asian Hotels and 
Properties PLC
Fixed rate
17 monthly installments 
commencing from May 2021 after 
6 months grace period
-
 50,000
 50,000
Fixed rate
36 monthly installments 
commencing from September 
2021 after 6 months grace period
-
 200,000
-
AWPLR plus 
margin
Short term revolving loan to be 
settled within 180 days
-
452,000
-
Beruwala Holiday 
Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
1 month LIBOR 
plus margin
8 quarterly installments 
commencing from July 2022
-
 334,294
 218,677 
Fixed rate
3 monthly installments 
commencing from June 2021
-
-
 47,240 
Fixed rate
3 monthly installments 
commencing from June 2021 after 
9 months grace period
Letter of Comfort from John Keells 
Holdings PLC
-
 25,753
Ceylon Cold Stores 
PLC
Fixed rate
48 monthly installments with one 
year grace period
-
 372,298
-
Ceylon Holiday Resort 
Ltd
Fixed rate
48 monthly installments 
commencing from January 2023 
after 12 months grace period
Letter of Comfort from John Keells 
Holdings PLC
 602,349 
 - 
Fixed for the first 
5 years and 1 
month AWPLR 
plus margin for 
the next 5 years 
102 monthly installments 
commencing from August 2022 
after 18 months grace period
Rs.3.0 Bn Corporate Guarantee from 
John Keells Hotels PLC 
 3,063,305
 2,838,352 
Cinnamon Hotel 
Management Ltd 
Fixed rate
15 monthly installments 
commencing from April 2021
-
 4,800
 24,692 
Fantasea World Inv 
(Pte) Ltd
3 months LIBOR 
plus margin
22 quarterly installments 
commencing from December 2018 
after 18 months grace period 
Leasehold rights of Island of 
Cinnamon Hakuraa Huraa. 
 5,739,490
3,817,658
3 months LIBOR 
plus margin
12 Monthly installments 
commencing from March 2021
-
-
146,508
37.  
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings (Contd.) 

281
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance       Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
As at 31 March
Nominal 
Interest rate
Repayment terms
Assets Pledged and Collaterals
2022
In Rs.‘000s
2021
In Rs.‘000s
Habarana Walk Inn Ltd
Fixed rate
18 monthly installments 
commencing from July 2022 after 
6 months grace period
Rs.12.7 Mn Corporate Guarantee 
from John Keells Hotels PLC and 
Letter of Comfort from John Keells 
Holdings PLC
 13,138
 12,680
Habarana Lodge Ltd
1 month LIBOR 
plus margin
8 quarterly installments 
commencing from July 2022
-
 59,085
 37,939 
Fixed rate
18 monthly installments 
commencing from July 2022 after 
6 months grace period
Rs.37.9 Mn Corporate Guarantee 
from John Keells Hotels PLC and 
Letter of Comfort from John Keells 
Holdings PLC 
 39,965
 38,453
Hikkaduwa Holiday 
Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
1 month LIBOR 
plus margin
8 quarterly installments 
commencing from July 2022
-
 249,659
 160,304 
Fixed rate
18 monthly installments 
commencing from July 2022 after 
6 months grace period
Rs.18.9 Mn Corporate Guarantee 
from John Keells Hotels PLC and 
Letter of Comfort from John Keells 
Holdings PLC 
 19,921
 19,148 
Fixed rate
72 monthly installments 
commencing from July 2022 after 
12 months grace period
Rs.540 Mn Corporate Guarantee 
from John Keells Hotels PLC 
 560,359
 193,311
John Keells Properties 
Ja-Ela (Pvt) Ltd
1 month COF plus 
margin
60 monthly installments 
commencing from December 2016
General terms and conditions for 
Rs.450 Mn signed relating to the 
term loan
 145,041
 172,824 
John Keells 
Information 
Technology (Pvt) 
Ltd
Fixed rate
18 monthly installments 
commencing from April 2021
 - 
 4,000
 20,000 
John Keells Logistics 
(Pvt) Ltd
Fixed rate
24 monthly installments 
commencing from April 2021
 - 
 4,000
 20,000 
John Keells Hotels PLC
Fixed rate
15 monthly installments 
commencing from June 2021 after 
9 months grace period
Letter of undertaking from John 
Keells Hotels PLC 
 1,421
 4,372 
Fixed for the first 
3 years and 1 
month AWPLR 
plus margin for 
the next 4 years
10 bi-annual installments 
commencing from June 2023 after 
24 months grace period
Letter of Comfort from John Keells 
Holdings PLC 
 1,104,926
 1,018,780
Jaykay Marketing 
Services (Pvt) Ltd
Fixed rate
20 quarterly installments 
commencing from March 2021
-
 3,000,000
 3,800,000 
Fixed rate
20 quarterly installments 
commencing from May 2021
 - 
 1,600,000
 2,000,000
Fixed rate
Repayment on maturity 
-
 2,000,000
-
Keells Food Products 
PLC
1 month COF plus 
margin
60 monthly installments 
commencing from February 2019
 - 
 85,668
 129,124 
Kandy walk Inn Ltd
Fixed rate
18 monthly installments 
commencing from June 2022 after 
6 months grace period
Rs.26.6 Mn Corporate Guarantee 
from John Keells Hotels PLC and 
Letter of Comfort from John Keells 
Holdings PLC 
 28,064
 26,965
Logipark International 
(Pvt) Ltd
1 month COF plus 
margin
15 quarterly installments after 1 
year grace period
Mortgage over the property
 2,980,000
-
Mack Air (Pvt) Ltd
Fixed rate
15 monthly installments 
commencing after 9 months grace 
period
-
 10,000
 15,000
Mack International 
Freight (Pvt) Ltd
Fixed rate
15 monthly installments 
commencing after 9 months grace 
period
-
 3,333
 10,000 

282 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 March
Nominal 
Interest rate
Repayment terms
Assets Pledged and Collaterals
2022
In Rs.‘000s
2021
In Rs.‘000s
Rajawella Holdings Ltd
1 month COF plus 
margin
60 monthly installments 
commencing from April 2020 after 
1 year grace period
-
 393,340
 374,000
The Colombo Ice 
Company (Pvt) Ltd
1 month COF plus 
margin
60 monthly installments 
commencing from March 2017 
after 1 year grace period 
Rs.773 Mn Corporate Guarantee 
from Ceylon Cold Stores PLC 
 534,722
 1,041,667
Trans Asia Hotels PLC
1 month LIBOR 
plus margin
5 quarterly installments 
commencing from March 2021
-
 228,750
 187,781
Tranquility (Pte) Ltd
3 months LIBOR 
plus margin
16 quarterly installments 
commencing from September 
2019 after 12 months grace period
Leasehold right on the Island of 
Kanuoiy Huraa in Kaafu (Male') 
 8,084,940
 5,591,934 
3 months LIBOR 
plus margin
12 monthly installments 
commencing from March 2021
-
-
 177,866
Trinco Holiday Resorts 
(Pvt) Ltd
AWPLR minus 
margin
13 monthly installments 
commencing from July 2022 after 
12 months grace period
Letter of Comfort from John Keells 
Hotels PLC
 100,328
 94,238 
1 month LIBOR 
plus margin
8 quarterly installments 
commencing from July 2022 
-
 69,172
 63,152 
Fixed rate
18 monthly installments from July 
2022 after 6 months grace period
Corporate Guarantee from John 
Keells Hotels PLC and Letter of 
Comfort from John Keells Holdings 
PLC 
 19,504
-
Waterfront Properties 
(Pvt) Ltd
3 month LIBOR 
plus margin
13 quarterly installments 
commencing from September 
2019 
WPL’s assets (other than the 
residential and office buildings), 
Sponsor support undertaking by 
JKH, Pledge of 6.4 Bn shares  
held by JKH in WPL
-
 58,505,920 
5-year loan with a 2-year grace 
period and back-ended capital 
payments.
 68,734,525
-
Market standard 
margin over 
interest rate on 
collateral
Repayment on maturity, June 2022
Pledged fixed deposits of John Keells 
Holdings PLC with a security cover 
of 1.1 times
 31,012,451 
-
Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd
1 month LIBOR 
plus margin
8 quartely installments 
commencing from July 2022
-
 22,567 
 28,463 
Fixed rate
18 monthly installments 
commencing from July 2022 after 
6 months grace period
Rs.21.4 Mn Corporate Guarantee 
from John Keells Hotels PLC and 
Letter of Comfort from John Keells 
Holdings PLC 
 44,326 
 21,712 
Whittal Boustead 
(Travel) Ltd
364-days Treasury  
Bills rate plus  
margin
24 monthly installments 
commencing from March 2021 
after a 6 months grace period
-
 103,971 
 101,400 
Walkers Tours Ltd
Fixed rate
23 monthly installments 
commencing from September 
2021 after 6 months grace period
-
 273,607 
 250,300 
199,546,346  128,473,113 
37.  
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings (Contd.) 
37.2  Security and repayment terms (Contd.)

283
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance       Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
38.1  Employee benefit liabilities
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
Note
2022
2021
2022
2021
In Rs.'000s
Employee defined benefit plan - gratuity
 38.2 
 2,439,021 
 2,330,114 
 146,903 
 123,194 
Other long term employee benefit
 38.3 
 667,596 
 483,892 
 151,066 
 108,175 
At the end of the year
 3,106,617 
 2,814,006 
 297,969 
 231,369 
38.2  Employee defined benefit plan - gratuity
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2022
2021
2022
2021
In Rs.'000s
At the beginning of the year
 2,330,114 
 2,073,046 
 123,194 
 107,318 
Current service cost
 241,043 
 233,577 
 11,678 
 9,904 
Past service cost
 (15,538)
 - 
 (1,092)
-
Transfers
 - 
 - 
 891 
 (1,137)
Interest cost on benefit obligation
 174,945 
 204,805 
 11,088 
 11,805 
Payments
 (269,012)
 (276,410)
 (2,666)
 (6,831)
(Gain)/Loss arising from changes in assumptions 
 (24,720)
 95,096 
 3,810 
 2,135 
Exchange differences
 2,189 
 - 
 - 
 - 
At the end of the year
 2,439,021 
 2,330,114 
 146,903 
 123,194 
The expenses are recognised in the income statement in the following line 
items;
 Cost of sales
 202,613 
 218,109 
 3,591 
 2,895 
 Selling and distribution expenses
 34,795 
 44,986 
 - 
-
 Administrative expenses
 163,042 
 175,287 
 18,083 
 18,814 
 400,450 
 438,382 
 21,674 
 21,709 
Debt refinancing at Waterfront Properties (Pvt) Ltd
The USD 395 million syndicated loan facility (original facility) at 
Waterfront Properties (Pvt) Ltd, which was due for repayment in July 
2022, was successfully refinanced in December 2021 through a USD 
225 million long-term loan facility and a six-month bridging facility of 
USD 100 million. The USD 225 million facility was concluded at a rate 
similar to the previous facility taking into account step-down pricing 
mechanisms based on pre-agreed triggers. The facility is a 5-year loan 
with a 2-year grace period and back-ended capital payments.
The USD 100 million bridging facility was structured in order to align 
with the maturity date of July 2022 of the original facility.
38.  
Employee benefit liabilities
Accounting Policy
Employee contribution plans - EPF/ETF
Employees are eligible for Employees’ Provident Fund contributions 
and Employees’ Trust Fund contributions in line with respective statutes 
and regulations. The companies contribute the defined percentages of 
gross emoluments of employees to an approved Employees’ Provident 
Fund and to the Employees’ Trust Fund respectively, which are externally 
funded.
Employee defined benefit plan - gratuity
The liability recognised in the statement of financial position is the 
present value of the defined benefit obligation as at the reporting date 
using the projected unit credit method. Any actuarial gains or losses 
arising are recognised immediately in other comprehensive income.
Under the Payment of Gratuity Act No. 12 of 1983, the liability to an 
employee arises only on completion of 5 years of continued service. The 
obligation is not externally funded.
Other long term employee benefit
A new Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTI) has been launched for senior 
employees of the Group. The overall incentive will be paid in cash as a 
lump sum payment upon achievement of key performance indicators 
linked to the five year strategic plan in place.
The liability recognised in respect other long term employee benefits 
are measured as the present value of the estimated future cash outflows 
expected to be made by the Group in relation to the performance and 
the services of the relevant employees, up to the reporting date. 

284 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
38.  
Employee benefit liabilities (Contd.)
38.3  Other long term employee benefits
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2022
2021
2022
2021
In Rs.'000s
At the beginning of the year
 483,892 
 270,865 
 108,175 
 64,132 
Current service cost
 152,048 
 192,058 
 35,290 
37,701
Interest cost
 31,656 
 20,969 
 7,601 
6,342
At the end of the year
 667,596 
 483,892 
 151,066 
 108,175 
Accounting judgements , estimates and assumptions 
Employee benefit liability - gratuity
The employee benefit liability of the Group is based on the actuarial valuation carried out by independent actuarial specialists. The actuarial valuations 
are involve in making assumptions about discount rates and future salary increases. The complexity of the valuation, the underlying assumptions and 
its long term nature, the defined benefit obligation is highly sensitive to changes in these assumptions. All assumptions are reviewed at each reporting 
date. 
Under the Minimum Retirement Age of Workers Act No 28 of 2021, retirement benefit plan of the Group and the Company was amended due to the 
increase in retirement age.
The Management tested several scenarios based calculations on possible changes of the assumptions due to the prevailing macroeconomic 
conditions. Based on those calculations, the management has concluded that there is no material impact to retirement benefit obligation liability of 
the Group.   
The principal assumptions used in determining the cost of employee benefits were:
As at 31 March
2022
2021
Discount rate
8.00% -10.00%
7.00% -9.00%
Future salary increases
7.00% -9.00%
6.00% -8.00%
38.4  Sensitivity of assumptions used
A percentage change in the assumptions would have the following effects to employee defined benefit plan - gratuity.
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2022
2021
2022
2021
Discount rate:
 1% Increase
 (117,176)
 (100,137)
 (5,798)
 (6,955)
 1% Decrease
 113,434 
 110,514 
 6,281 
 7,673 
Salary Increment rate:
 1% Increase
 118,799 
 111,402 
 6,541 
 7,867 
 1% Decrease
 (124,005)
 (102,399)
 (6,141)
 (7,249)
Notes to the Financial Statements

285
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance       Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
38.5  Maturity analysis of the payments 
The following payments are expected on employee benefit plan - gratuity in future years.
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2022
2021
2022
2021
In Rs.'000s
Within the next 12 months
 113,775 
 218,929 
 - 
44
Between 1 and 2 years
 228,446 
 222,511 
 13,253 
 12,002 
Between 2 and 5 years
 943,957 
 996,578 
 90,660 
 21,006 
Between 5 and 10 years
 965,951 
 667,551 
 42,990 
 73,659 
Beyond 10 years
 186,892 
 224,545 
 - 
 16,483 
Total expected payments
 2,439,021 
 2,330,114 
 146,903 
123,194
Weighted average duration (years) of defined benefit obligation
7.97
7.45
5.18
12.26
39.  
Non current financial liabilities
Accounting policy
Group classifies all financial non current liabilities under non current financial liabilities which include forward contract liabilities and construction 
retention liabilites of the Waterfront integrated resort project.
GROUP
As at 31 March
2022
2021
In Rs.'000s
Forward contract liability
 - 
 413,466 
Construction retention 
 2,413,880 
 3,247,486 
 2,413,880 
 3,660,952 
40.  
Other non current liabilities
Accounting policy
Group classifies all non financial non current liabilities under other non current liabilities which include non refundable advances and deposits.
GROUP
As at 31 March
2022
2021
In Rs.'000s
Contract liabilities
 73,760 
 19,386,170 
Deposits
 96,183 
 101,057 
Other deferred liabilities
 50,260 
 58,428 
 220,203 
 19,545,655 
41.  
Trade and other payables
Accounting policy 
Trade payables are the aggregate amount of obligations to pay for goods or services, that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business. Trade 
payables are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year.
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2022
2021
2022
2021
In Rs.'000s
Trade and other payables
 41,822,593 
 34,037,021 
 566,252 
 372,711 
Contract Liabilities
 123,166 
 112,665 
 - 
 - 
Reinsurance payables
 1,219,314 
 670,785 
 - 
 - 
Advances and deposits
 304,334 
 467,229 
 - 
 - 
 43,469,407 
 35,287,700 
 566,252 
 372,711 
Trade and other payables are non-interest bearing and settled within one year. Reinsurance payables are settled within one year. For further explanation 
on the Group’s liquidity risk management process refer Note 11.2.2.

286 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Notes to the Financial Statements
42.  
Short term borrowings
Accounting policy 
Short term borrowings are the interest bearing borrowings of the Group which fall due within 12 months from the end of the financial year. These are 
obtained for working capital requirements. 
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2022
2021
2022
2021
In Rs.'000s
Bank borrowings
 14,833,056 
 6,903,737 
 2,000,000 
-
 14,833,056 
 6,903,737 
 2,000,000 
-
43.  
Other current liabilities 
Accounting policy
The Group classifies all non financial current liabilities under other current liabilities.
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2022
2021
2022
2021
In Rs.'000s
Non refundable deposits
 627,277 
 518,057 
-
 - 
Contract liabilities
 2,093,394 
 758,085 
-
 - 
Other tax payables
 1,559,716 
 457,256 
-
 20,796 
 4,280,387 
 1,733,398 
-
 20,796 
44.  
Related party transactions
Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties
The Group and the Company carried out transactions in the ordinary 
course of business with the following related entities. The list of Directors 
at each of the subsidiaries, joint venture and associate companies 
have been disclosed in the Group Directory under the Supplementary 
Information section of the Annual Report.
Governance structure, nature of the entity’s relationships, principal place 
of business and the country of incorporation have been disclosed in the 
“Report of the Related Party Transaction Review Committee" and Group 
directory.
Transactions with related parties are carried out in the ordinary course 
of business. Outstanding current account balances at year end are 
unsecured, interest free and settlement occurs in cash.
The sales to and purchases from related parties are made on terms 
equivalent to those that prevail in arm's length transactions.
Non-recurrent related party transactions
There were no non-recurrent related party transactions which in 
aggregate value exceeds 10% of the equity or 5% of the total assets 
whichever is lower of the company as per 31 March 2021 audited 
financial statements, which required additional disclosures in the 
2021/22 Annual Report under Colombo Stock Exchange listing Rule 
9.3.2 and Code of Best Practices on Related Party Transactions under the 
Securities and Exchange Commission Directive issued under Section 
13(c) of the Securities and Exchange Commission Act.
Recurrent related party transactions
There were no recurrent related party transactions which in aggregate 
value exceeds 10% of the consolidated revenue of the Group as per 31 
March 2021 audited financial Statements, which required additional 
disclosures in the 2021/22 Annual Report under Colombo Stock 
Exchange listing Rule 9.3.2 and Code of Best Practices on Related Party 
Transactions under the Securities and Exchange Commission Directive 
issued under Section 13(c) of the Securities and Exchange Commission 
Act.
44.1  Amounts due from related parties
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
Note
2022
2021
2022
2021
In Rs.'000s
Subsidiaries
44.5
 - 
 - 
 531,375 
 1,379,839 
Equity accounted investees
 196,394 
 123,553 
 129,324 
 85,977 
Key management personnel 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 196,394 
 123,553 
 660,699 
 1,465,816 

287
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance       Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
44.2  Amounts due to related parties
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
Note
2022
2021
2022
2021
In Rs.'000s
Subsidiaries
44.6
 - 
 - 
 20,912 
 13,181 
Equity accounted investees
 1,818 
 1,385 
 - 
 - 
Key management personnel 
 - 
-
 - 
 - 
 1,818 
 1,385 
 20,912 
 13,181 
44.3  Transactions with related parties
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
Note
2022
2021
2022
2021
In Rs.'000s
Subsidiaries
  Purchases of goods
-
-
 6,540 
 5,996 
  Rendering of services
 44.5 
-
-
 1,411,346 
 1,307,624 
  Receiving of services
 44.6 
-
-
 433,074 
 428,543 
  Rent paid
-
-
 31,611 
 31,641 
  Dividend received
-
-
 4,194,492 
 3,959,814 
Equity accounted investees
  Sale of goods
 9,567 
 8,381 
 - 
 - 
  Rendering of services
 44.5 
 693,777 
 482,220 
 461,150 
 338,096 
  Receiving of services
 199,477 
 163,712 
 115 
-
  Interest received
 44.4 
 160,859 
 67,987 
 96,108 
10,721
  Interest paid
 44.4 
 45,081 
 13,730 
 3 
2 
  Loans received
 1,000,000 
-
 - 
-
  Dividend received
 - 
-
 3,813,157 
 4,386,446 
Key management personnel (KMP)
  Sale of goods
-
-
-
-
Close family members of KMP
  Sale of goods
-
-
-
-
Companies controlled / jointly controlled / significantly 
 Influenced by KMP and their close family members
 Rendering of services
5,037
-
-
-
 Receiving of services
14,374
8,086
-
-
Post employment benefit plan
  Contributions to the provident fund
 287,558 
 261,102 
 70,256 
 50,407 
44.4  Transactions with related parties - Associates
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
2022
2021
2022
2021
In Rs.'000s
Nations Trust Bank PLC
Interest received 
 160,859 
 67,987 
 96,108 
10,721
Interest paid
 45,081 
 13,730 
 3 
2
The Group held interest bearing deposits of Rs.4,658 Mn (2021 - Rs.1,023 Mn) at Nations Trust Bank PLC as at 31 March 2022.

288 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Notes to the Financial Statements
44.  
Related party transactions (Contd.)
44.5  Related party transactions and balances 
COMPANY
Rendering of services
Amounts due from
For the year ended/As at 31 March 
In Rs.‘000s
2022
2021
2022
2021
Subsidiaries
Asian Hotels and Properties PLC
 59,879 
 55,255 
 2,229 
 9,776 
Beruwala Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
 13,894 
 12,350 
 1,324 
 1,235 
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC
 162,211 
 162,226 
 38,777 
 208,835 
Ceylon Holiday Resorts Ltd
 13,389 
 12,968 
 1,227 
 1,268 
Cinnamon Hotel Management Ltd
 62,927 
 56,568 
 7,005 
 6,010 
Fantasea World Investments (Pte) Ltd
 5,967 
 5,809 
 572 
 854 
Habarana Lodge Ltd
 11,576 
 10,236 
 1,119 
 1,041 
Habarana Walk Inn Ltd
 9,438 
 8,395 
 886 
 3,150 
Hikkaduwa Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
 11,438 
 10,206 
 1,077 
 999 
InfoMate (Pvt) Ltd
 52,426 
 48,792 
 9,207 
 3,474 
JayKay Marketing Services (Pvt) Ltd
 407,653 
 363,285 
 363,075 
 63,912 
John Keells Information Technologies (Pvt) Ltd 
 74,360 
 76,727 
 - 
 63,245 
John Keells International (Pvt) Ltd
 6,330 
 5,627 
 - 
 3,158 
John Keells Logistics (Pvt) Ltd
 41,892 
 36,455 
 16,124 
 8,264 
John Keells Maldivian Resorts (Pte) Ltd
 4,042 
 3,983 
 352 
 913 
John Keells Office Automation (Pvt) Ltd
 37,875 
 33,544 
 17,478 
 19,412 
John Keells PLC
 18,343 
 16,560 
 - 
 1,080 
John Keells Stock Brokers (Pvt) Ltd
 12,131 
 9,917 
 - 
 - 
John Keells Teas Ltd 
 2,654 
 2,407 
 591 
 270 
John Keells Warehousing (Pvt) Ltd
 3,514 
 3,323 
 331 
 324 
Kandy Walk Inn Ltd
 11,109 
 10,065 
 969 
 1,048 
Keells Consultants (Pvt) Ltd
 4,131 
 4,198 
 - 
 13,109 
Keells Food Products PLC
 43,439 
 38,554 
 4,029 
 3,947 
Lanka Marine Services (Pvt) Ltd
 16,691 
 13,814 
 3,599 
 2,553 
Mack Air (Pvt) Ltd
 13,608 
 12,771 
 - 
 356 
Mackinnon Keells Ltd
 1,848 
 1,829 
 - 
 - 
Mackinnons Travels (Pvt) Ltd
 7,323 
 11,290 
 - 
 878 
Rajawella Holdings Ltd
 7,396 
 5,772 
 1,384 
 1,144 
Tea Small Holder Factories PLC
 2,776 
 2,224 
 11,550 
 236 
The Colombo Ice Company (Pvt) Ltd
 15,377 
 11,702 
 1,602 
 1,126 
Tranquility (Pte) Ltd
 13,205 
 12,226 
 1,267 
 1,969 
Trans Asia Hotels PLC
 41,694 
 38,298 
 227 
 - 
Travel Club (Pte) Ltd
 6,039 
 5,349 
 577 
 867 
Trinco Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
 9,152 
 8,531 
 848 
 880 
Union Assurance PLC
 85,098 
 97,810 
 8,939 
 944,644 
Walkers Tours Ltd
 31,807 
 37,800 
 2,272 
 3,023 
Waterfront properties (Pvt) Ltd
 21,670 
 - 
 16,866 
 - 
Whittall Boustead (Pvt) Ltd
 26,931 
 23,230 
 1,883 
 1,493 
Whittall Boustead (Travel) Ltd
 7,543 
 8,438 
 1,677 
 1,054 
Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd
 9,428 
 8,774 
 870 
 904 
Other subsidiaries
 23,142 
 20,316 
 11,442 
 3,388 
 1,411,346 
 1,307,624 
 531,375 
 1,379,839 

289
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance       Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
COMPANY
Rendering of services
Amounts due from
For the year ended/As at 31 March 
In Rs.‘000s
2022
2021
2022
2021
Joint ventures
DHL Keells (Pvt) Ltd
 441,876 
 318,378 
 118,325 
 70,049 
Braybrooke Residential Properties (Pvt) Ltd
 736 
 651 
 105 
 1,479 
Inchcape Mackinnon Mackenzie Shipping (Pvt) Ltd
 544 
 - 
 703 
 - 
Sentinel Reality (Pvt) Ltd
 - 
 23 
 - 
 76 
Associates
Fairfirst Insurance Ltd
 - 
 37 
 318 
 400 
Nations Trust Bank PLC
 - 
 - 
 1,559 
 1,401 
Saffron Aviation (Pvt) Ltd
 3,172 
 3,705 
 377 
 334 
Capital Hotel Holdings (Pvt) Ltd
 9,507 
 9,679 
 938 
 5,813 
South Asia Gateway Terminals ( Pvt ) Ltd
 5,315 
 5,623 
 6,991 
 6,425 
 461,150 
 338,096 
 129,316 
 85,977 
44.6  Related party transactions and balances 
COMPANY
Receiving of services
Amounts due to
For the year ended/As at 31 March 
In Rs.‘000s
2022
2021
2022
2021
Subsidiaries
Asian Hotels and Properties PLC
 192 
 3,033 
 - 
 - 
InfoMate (Pvt) Ltd
 5,890 
 5,581 
 - 
 - 
Trans Asia Hotels PLC
 - 
 25,710 
 - 
 1,632 
John Keells Information Technologies (Pvt) Ltd 
 399,598 
 377,163 
 3,676 
 - 
John Keells Singapore (Pvt) Ltd.
 13,621 
 6,319 
 2,818 
 - 
Whittall Boustead (Pvt) Ltd
 8,916 
 9,819 
 - 
 - 
Other subsidiaries
 4,857 
 918 
 14,418 
 11,549 
 433,074 
 428,543 
 20,912 
 13,181 
Joint ventures
DHL Keells (Pvt) Ltd
 115 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 115 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Details of inter-company assets pledged and given as collateral for loans and borrowings can be found in Interest-bearing loans and borrowings  
Note 37.2 in the financial statements.
44.5  Related party transactions and balances (Contd.)

290 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Notes to the Financial Statements
44.  
Related party transactions (Contd.)
44.7  Compensation of key management personnel
Key management personnel include members of the Board of Directors of John Keells Holdings PLC and its subsidiary companies.
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
2022
2021
2022
2021
In Rs.'000s
Short-term employee benefits
436,828
381,202
122,198
 115,268 
Post employment benefits
 8,227
7,459
 2,589
 2,541 
Share based payments
 69,532
91,142
 28,385
 29,275 
514,587
479,803
153,172
 147,084 
Directors’ interest in the employee share option plan of the Company
As at 31 March 2022, the executive members of the Board of Directors held options to purchase ordinary shares under the employee share option plan 
as follows;
COMPANY
2022
2021
Expiry date
Adjusted exercise
price 
Rs.
Number of shares
outstanding at 
the end of period
Number of shares
exercisable at the
end of period
Number of shares
outstanding at the
end of period
Number of shares 
exercisable at the 
end of period
14.08.2021
600,000
600,000
02.07.2022
173.30
              725,000 
         725,000 
 725,000 
 543,750 
21.06.2023
154.14
              880,000 
         660,000 
 880,000 
 440,000 
30.06.2024
136.97
              880,000 
         440,000 
 880,000 
 220,000 
30.06.2025
132.86
              880,000 
         220,000 
 880,000 
 - 
30.06.2026
136.64
              880,000 
                  -   
-
-
No share options have been granted to the non-executive members of the Board of Directors under the employee share option plan.

291
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance       Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
OTHER DISCLOSURES
45.  
Contingent liabilities
Accounting policy
Provisions, contingent assets and contingent liabilities 
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation 
(legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that an 
outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required 
to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the 
amount of the obligation. Where the Group expects some or all of a 
provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, 
the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when the 
reimbursement is virtually certain.
The expense relating to any provision is presented in the income 
statement net of any reimbursement.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are 
discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, where appropriate, 
the risks specific to the liability. Where discounting is used, the increase 
in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance 
cost. 
All contingent liabilities are disclosed as a note to the financial 
statements unless the outflow of resources is remote. A contingent 
liability recognised in a business combination is initially measured at its 
fair value. 
Subsequently, it is measured at the higher of: the amount that would 
be recognised in accordance with the general guidance for provisions 
above (LKAS 37) or the amount initially recognised less, when 
appropriate, cumulative amortisation recognised in accordance with 
the guidance for revenue recognition (SLFRS 15). Contingent assets are 
disclosed, where inflow of economic benefit is probable. 
The contingent liabilities of the Company and the Group as at 31 March 
2022, relates to the following:
John Keells Holdings PLC (JKH)
The contingent liability of the Company as at 31 March 2022, relates to 
the following: 
Income tax assessment relating to year of assessment 2006/07. 
The Company has lodged appeals against the assessment and is 
contesting it under appellate procedure.
Having discussed with independent legal and tax experts and based 
on information available, the contingent liability as at 31 March 2022, is 
estimated at Rs.54 Mn.
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC (CCS)
The contingent liability of CCS as at 31 March 2022, relates to the 
Following:
Income tax assessments relating to years of assessment 2011/12 to 
2013/2014. 
The company has lodged appeals against the assessments and is 
contesting these under appellate procedure.
Having discussed with independent legal and tax experts and based on 
the information available, the contingent liability as at 31 March 2022 is 
estimated at Rs.36.5 Mn.
Lanka Marine Services (Pvt) Ltd (LMS)
The contingent liability of LMS as at 31 March 2022, relates to the 
following:
Assessment of Turnover tax levied by the Western Provincial Council for 
the period from 1 January 2003 to 31 December 2004. 
The company has lodged appeals against the assessment and is 
contesting these under appellate procedure.
Income tax assessment relating to years of assessment from 2001/02 to 
2017/18. The company has lodged appeals against the assessments and 
is contesting these under the appellate procedure.
Apart from the procedural grounds of appeal, the substantive issue 
under dispute is the position taken by the company that the sale of 
bunker to foreign ships is an export and is entitled to the exemptions/
concessions attached thereto.
Having discussed with independent legal and tax experts and based 
on information available, the contingent liability as at 31 March 2022, is 
estimated at Rs.1,233 Mn.
Mackinnons Travels (Pvt) Ltd (MTL)
The contingent liability of MTL as at 31 March 2022, relates to the 
Following:
Value Added Tax assessments relating to the periods from 1 April 2009 to 
31 March 2011 and 1 January 2017 to 30 November 2019. 
The company has lodged appeals against the assessments and is 
contesting these under appellate procedure.
Having discussed with independent legal and tax experts and based 
on information available, the contingent liability as at 31 March 2022 is 
estimated at Rs.108 Mn.
Trans Asia Hotels PLC (TAH)
The contingent liability of TAH as at 31 March 2022, relates to the 
following:
Income tax assessments relating to years of assessments 2012/13 to 
2017/2018.
The company has lodged appeals against the assessments and is 
contesting these under appellate procedure.
Having discussed with independent legal and tax experts and based on 
the information available, the contingent liability as at 31 March 2022 is 
estimated at Rs.157.6 Mn.

292 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Notes to the Financial Statements
Union Assurance PLC (UA)
The contingent liability of UA as at 31 March 2022, relates to the 
following:
Value Added Tax assessments relating to the periods from 1 April 2016 to 
31 March 2018.
The company has lodged appeals against the assessments and is 
contesting these under appellate procedure. Having discussed with 
independent legal and tax experts and based on information available, 
the contingent liability as at 31 March 2022, is estimated at Rs.13.9 Mn.
Financial Services VAT and NBT assessments relating to the periods from 
1 January 2016 to 31 December 2018.
The company has lodged appeals against the assessments and is 
contesting these under appellate procedure. Having discussed with 
independent legal and tax experts and based on information available, 
the contingent liability as at 31 March 2022, is estimated at Rs.520 Mn.
Income Tax Assessments received for years of assessments 2010/11, 
2011/12, 2012/13, 2013/14, 2014/15, 2015/16,2016/17 and 2017/18. 
The assessments were raised for the above years of assessments by 
making life insurance income liable to pay income taxes of Rs.13 Mn, 
Rs.132 Mn, Rs.411 Mn, Rs.175 Mn, Rs.887 Mn, Rs.832 Mn,  
Rs.472 Mn and Rs 749 Mn respectively. The company has lodged valid 
appeals against the assessments raised and is contesting these under 
the appellate procedure.
Having discussed with independent legal and tax experts and based on 
information available, the Directors are of the view that the company has 
followed due process and acted in accordance with the prevailing laws 
in its tax submissions for years of assessment from 2010/11 to 2017/18 
and accordingly have concluded that the above assessments have no 
rationale or basis in law.
46.  
Capital and other commitments
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2022
2021
2022
2021
In Rs.'000s
Capital commitments approved but not provided for
28,418,998
 30,438,691
-
-
Guarantees
3,267,348
1,877,615
1,947,000
 3,117,000 
31,686,346
32,316,306
 1,947,000
 3,117,000 
47.  
Assets pledged
Assets pledged for facilities obtained are given in Note 37.2 to the financial statements. 
48.  
Events after the reporting period
Final dividend
The Board of Directors of the Company has declared a final dividend of 
Rs.0.50 per share for the financial year ended 31 March 2022. As required 
by section 56 (2) of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, the Board of 
Directors has confirmed that the Company satisfies the solvency test in 
accordance with section 57 of the Companies Act No.07 of 2007, and has 
obtained a certificate from auditors, prior to declaring a final dividend 
which is to be paid on or before 22 June 2022.
In accordance with LKAS 10, Events after the reporting period, the 
final dividend has not been recognised as a liability in the financial 
statements as at 31 March 2022.
Surcharge Tax
Surcharge Tax Act No. 14 of 2022 was enacted on 8 April 2022. Financial 
impact arising from the same is discussed in Note 21 to the Financial 
Statements.
45.  
Contingent liabilities (Contd.)

293
 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance       Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
294 History of John Keells Group x 295 Decade at a Glance x 296 Economic Value Statement 
298 Indicative US Dollar Financial Statements x 300 Group Real Estate Portfolio 
302 Glossary x 303 Independent Assurance Statement on Non-Financial Reporting 
306 Group Directory x 313 GRI - Disclosure 207-4 x 314 GRI Content Index x 323 Notice of Meeting
ETHICAL CONDUCT
Supplementary information

294 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
History of the John Keells Group
1870-1970
1870 – Two English brothers, George and 
Edwin John set up E. John & Co, a firm of 
produce and exchange brokers.
1948 –Merged with two other London based 
tea brokers, thereby evolving into a private 
liability company by the name of E. John, 
Thompson, White & Company Ltd.
1960 – Amalgamated with Keell and Waldock 
Ltd, another long-established produce, share 
and freight broking company. The company 
changed its name to John Keell Thompson 
White Ltd.
1971-1990
1973 – Acquired Walkers Tours and Travels 
(Ceylon) Ltd, a leading inbound tour operator.
1974 – The firm became a Rupee quoted 
public company with its name changed to 
John Keells Ltd.
1986 – A newly incorporated John Keells 
Holdings (JKH) acquired a controlling stake in 
John Keells Limited and obtained a quotation 
on the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) amidst 
a heavily over-subscribed public share issue.
1991-2000
1991 – Acquired the Whittalls Group of 
Companies, thereby gaining control of Ceylon 
Cold Stores, Ceylon Holiday Resorts, and Union 
Assurance. The acquisition was one of the 
largest deals of the time.
1994 – JKH became the first Sri Lankan 
company to obtain a listing overseas, by way 
of issuing Global Depository Receipts (GDRs) 
on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange.
1996 – Velidhu Resort Hotel, an 80-roomed 
island resort in the Maldives, was acquired. 
This marked the Group’s first major investment 
overseas.
1999 – Nations Trust Bank (NTB) was 
established, through a joint venture with 
the International Finance Corporation (IFC) 
and Central Finance Co. Ltd. The South Asia 
Gateway Terminal (SAGT) commenced 
operations at the Port of Colombo.
2000 – JKH became the first Sri Lankan 
company to obtain the SL-AAA credit rating 
from Fitch Ratings. 
2001-2007
2003 – JKH acquired Asian Hotels and 
Properties, thereby gaining control of 40 per 
cent of the 5-star room capacity in Colombo.
2004 - John Keells Hotels Limited (KHL) 
was created as a holding company for all 
Group resorts. The Group’s CSR arm, the John 
Keells Social Responsibility Foundation was 
established as a non-profit organisation.
2005 - The Group launched its hotel brand 
'Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts'. JKH entered 
into an MoU to develop a third resort in the 
Maldives. Keells Plantations was divested, 
marking the Group’s exit from the ownership 
of plantations. JKH also entered into the BPO 
space through a joint venture with Raman Roy 
Associates.
2006 - The Group acquired a lease on Dhonveli 
Beach and Spa and Ellaidhoo Tourist Resort 
in the Maldives. The Group also increased its 
stake in SAGT by 8 per cent to 34 per cent. 
John Keells Holdings Ltd was renamed John 
Keells Holdings PLC.
2007 - Cinnamon Island Alidhoo commenced 
operations. The Group signed a long-term 
funding arrangement amounting to USD 75 
million with IFC.
2008-2010
2008 - JKH acquired a further 8.4 per cent in 
SAGT and also increased stakes in UA, CCS, JKL 
and KFPL
2009 - JKH’s market capitalisation surpassed 
USD 1 billion. 
2010 - The head lease of Alidhoo Island was 
divested while the head lease of Dhonveli 
Island was acquired for a period of 18 years. 
Construction of 'OnThree20', a 475-unit 
apartment complex in the heart of Colombo 
commenced. JKH increased its stake in UA to 
95.6 per cent.
2011-2014
2011/12 - 'The Emperor' apartment project at 
Crescat City, Colombo reached completion.
2012/13 - 'Cinnamon Bey', a 200-room five-star 
resort was launched. 'K-Zone', a 140,000 sq. ft. 
mall was opened in Ja-Ela, Colombo. Keells 
Food Products PLC and Union Assurance PLC 
successfully raised Rs.1.2 billion and Rs.720 
million respectively, via rights issues.
2013/14 - The market capitalisation of JKH 
exceeded USD 2 billion for the first time in the 
Group’s history. The 'Waterfront' integrated 
resort project, referred to as ‘Cinnamon Life’ at 
present, was announced to the public.
2014/15 - 'Cinnamon Red Colombo', the first 
lean luxury hotel in Sri Lanka, was launched. 
The ’OnThree20‘ residential development 
project was successfully completed. Union 
Assurance was segregated as per a regulatory 
directive, and the General Insurance segment 
was divested. 
2015 - Present
2015/16 - Waterfront Properties (Private) 
Limited raised the necessary debt funding 
for the 'Cinnamon Life' project, by way of the 
largest syndicated debt facility obtained by 
a local firm. A controlling stake in Rajawella 
Holdings Ltd (RHL) was acquired for Rs.1.04 
billion. The Group raised Rs.8 billion by 
converting 50 million warrants, '7th Sense' on 
Gregory’s Road, a high end, niche, residential 
development was completed.
2017/18 - JMSL launched a new store format 
for its 'Keells' supermarkets. NTB launched 
'FriMi', the country’s first digital bank, enabling 
the opening of a bank account through 
a smart device. JKH launched 'Tri-Zen', an 
891-apartment joint venture residential 
development.
2018/19 - The new ice cream factory was 
completed in Seethawaka. The 'Keells' brand 
was launched with the completion of a refit 
and rebranding across all supermarket outlets. 
2019/20 - CY2020 marked a significant 
milestone for the Group, given 150 years of 
being in business. OCTAVE, the Group's Data 
and Advanced Analytics Centre of Excellence 
was formally initiated as a division under JKH. 
The newly reconstructed 159-room ‘Cinnamon 
Bentota Beach’ commenced operations as 
the Group's flagship 'Cinnamon' hotel. Keells 
Food Products (KFP) commenced production 
of a pioneering Instant Rice, branded ‘Ezy rice’. 
Union Assurance (UA) underwent a brand 
change, centred around the theme, 'Your Life, 
Our Strength'.
2020/21 - JKH entered into a ten-year 
financing agreement with the International 
Finance Corporation (IFC) for USD 175 million. 
A consortium consisting of Adani Ports and 
Special Economic Zone Limited (APSEZ) 
and JKH, in the capacity as the local partner, 
received a letter of intent (LOI) to develop 
and operate the West Container Terminal 
at the Port of Colombo as a public private 
partnership (PPP) project. The Group instituted 
a Diversity, Equity and Inclusion programme 
towards increasing the diversity of our 
workforce and launched the 'ONE JKH' brand 
with several initiatives aimed at increasing 
critical diversity metrics across the Group. 
The Group established a goal of increasing 
the participation of women in the workforce 
up to 40 per cent by the end of 2025/26, as a 
step towards achieving gender parity in the 
workforce.

 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance   l    Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
295
Decade at a Glance
31 March
Rs. Mn
2022
2021
2020
2019
2018
2017
2016
2015
2014
2013
OPERATING RESULTS
Group revenue
 218,075  127,676  138,956 
 135,456 
 121,215 
 106,273 
 93,710 
 91,852 
 86,706 
 85,408 
EBIT
 34,359 
 7,931 
 15,508 
 20,198 
 28,155 
 23,324 
 20,192 
 19,226 
 16,537 
 16,677 
Finance cost
 (7,035)
 (4,669)
 (3,166)
 (2,722)
 (521)
 (436)
 (994)
 (668)
 (1,217)
 (1,081)
Share of results of equity accounted 
investees (net of tax) 
6,746
 4,159 
 4,466 
 4,727 
 3,596 
 3,303 
 2,781 
 2,778 
 3,089 
 3,440 
Profit before tax 
 27,324 
 5,445 
 12,403 
 18,616 
 27,634 
 22,888 
 19,198 
 18,557 
 15,320 
 15,595 
Tax expense
 (6,882)
 (1,494)
 (2,662)
 (2,378)
 (4,515)
 (4,771)
 (3,406)
 (2,812)
 (2,362)
 (2,162)
Profit after tax
 20,443 
 3,951 
 9,741 
 16,237 
 23,120 
 18,117 
 15,792 
 15,745 
 12,958 
 13,433 
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent
 20,213 
 4,772 
 9,414 
 15,254 
 21,021 
 16,275 
 14,070 
 14,348 
 11,721 
 12,113 
Non-controlling interests
 230 
 (821)
 327 
 983 
 2,099 
 1,842 
 1,722 
 1,397 
 1,237 
 1,320 
 20,443 
 3,951 
 9,741 
 16,237 
 23,120 
 18,117 
 15,792 
 15,745 
 12,958 
 13,433 
CAPITAL EMPLOYED
Stated capital
 73,188 
 63,102 
 62,881 
 62,806 
 62,802 
 62,790 
 58,702 
 50,703 
 49,749 
 26,480 
Capital reserves and other components 
of equity
 129,011 
 72,403 
 66,085 
 58,646 
 49,852 
 38,652 
 28,715 
 24,501 
 21,845 
 20,635 
Revenue reserves
 109,087 
 90,652 
 87,885 
 82,834 
 87,266 
 77,193 
 67,565 
 62,594 
 51,304 
 42,704 
 311,286  226,157  216,851 
 204,286 
 199,920 
 178,635 
 154,982 
 137,798 
 122,898 
 89,819 
Non-controlling interest
 18,805
 16,830 
 26,872 
 26,072 
 24,944 
 15,696 
 13,499 
 12,279 
 11,421 
 11,152 
Total equity
 330,091  242,987  243,723 
 230,358 
 224,864 
 194,331 
 168,481 
 150,077 
 134,319 
 100,971 
Total debt
 268,228  172,904  100,907 
 54,513 
 29,722 
 22,766 
 20,750 
 23,934 
 26,139 
 20,107 
 598,319  415,891  344,630 
 284,871 
 254,586 
 217,097 
 189,231 
 174,011 
 160,458 
 121,078 
ASSETS EMPLOYED
Property, plant and equipment (PP&E)
 124,348  113,077  111,534 
 97,688 
 87,260 
 64,396 
 52,737 
 49,563 
 47,406 
 49,200 
Non-current assets other than PP&E
 354,518  257,226  204,360 
 170,687 
 136,427 
 107,912 
 93,376 
 78,030 
 71,969 
 59,787 
Current assets
 238,929  166,491  121,050 
 95,421 
 98,762 
 104,964 
 94,863 
 90,493 
 82,206 
 49,934 
Liabilities net of debt
 (119,476)  (120,903)
 (92,314)
 (78,925)
 (67,862)
 (60,175)
 (51,745)
 (44,075)
 (41,123)
 (37,843)
 598,319  415,891  344,630 
 284,871 
 254,587 
 217,097 
 189,231 
 174,011 
 160,458 
 121,078 
CASH FLOW
Net cash flows from operating activities
30,440
13,825
 (10,350)
(4,743)
 16,012 
 21,020 
 20,513 
 20,855 
 8,041 
 14,568 
Net cash flows from / (used in) investing 
activities
39,363
 (44,944)
 (27,039)
 (8,452)
 (16,640)
 (17,670)
 (9,567)
 (1,255)
 (19,710)
 (16,199)
 Net cash flows from / (used in) financing 
activities
 31,693 
 55,427 
 18,431 
 (11,000)
 (4,587)
 (4,105)
 (7,717)
 (4,838)
 25,446 
 (1,320)
Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash 
equivalents
 101,495 
 24,308 
 (18,959)
 (14,709)
 (5,215)
 (755)
 3,229 
 14,762 
 13,777 
 (2,951)
KEY INDICATORS
Basic earnings per share (Rs.)
 15.13 
 3.62 
 7.14 
 11.13 
 15.2 
 11.9 
 10.5 
 12.6 
10.5
10.7
Interest cover (no. of times)
4.9
 1.7 
 4.9 
 7.8 
 54 
 52.8 
51.5
 27.7 
 13.6 
 15.4 
Net assets per share* (Rs.) 
 224.8 
 163.3 
156.6 
 147.5 
 144.4 
 129.0 
 111.9 
 99.5 
 88.7 
 64.9 
Enterprise value (EV)
311,951
 244,679  186,236 
 210,020 
 187,926 
136.022
 124,182 
 155,675 
 124,182 
 203,615 
EV / EBITDA
 10.7 
 15.7 
 9.2 
 8.5 
 5.8 
 5.0 
 5.0 
 6.6 
 10.0 
 10.0 
ROE (%)
 7.5 
 2.2 
 4.5 
 7.5 
 11.1 
 9.8 
 9.6 
 11.0 
11.0
 15.0 
Debt / equity ratio (%)
81.3
 71.2 
 41.4 
 23.7 
 13.2 
 11.7 
 12.3 
 15.9 
 19.5 
 19.9 
Net debt excl. leases (cash)/Equity (%) 
23.5
20.0
14.0
1.9
(14.9)
(28.5)
(30.8)
(28.8)
(23.2)
(8.0)
Dividend payout (Rs.Mn)
 2,012 
 1,978 
 4,614 
 8,186 
 8,325 
 7,280 
 8,038 
 3,476 
 3,267 
 2,982 
Current ratio (no. of times)
1.8
 2.3 
 2.1 
 1.7 
 3.0 
 3.7 
 4.0 
 2.6 
 2.4 
 2.0 
Market price per share unadjusted (Rs.)
145.0
 148.5 
 115.4 
 156.0 
 159.6 
 137.9 
 148.0 
 199.4 
 227.0 
 247.0 
Market price per share diluted (Rs.)
145.0
 148.5 
 115.4 
 156.0 
 159.6 
 137.9 
 129.5 
 152.7 
 173.8 
 238.2 
Revenue growth rate (%)
70.8
 (8.1)
 2.6 
 11.8 
14.1
13.4
1.6
5.9
4.1
9.7
USD closing rate (Rs.)
305.0
 200.3 
 189.6 
 175.5 
155.9
151.9
147.7
133.5
130.7
126.8
USD average rate (Rs.)
208.3
 189.0 
 179.4 
 168.6 
153.6
148.0
139.2
131.2
130.1
129.9
* Net assets per share has been calculated, for all periods, based on the net assets of the Group and number of shares in issue as at 31 March 2022.

296 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Economic Value Statement
Transportation
Consumer Foods
Retail
Leisure
Property
For the year ended 31 
March 
Rs.Mn
2022
2021
2022
2021
2022
2021
2022
2021
2022
2021
Direct economic value 
generated
 Revenue 
 32,550 
 18,403 
 23,008 
 18,298 
 91,056 
 70,400 
 20,593 
 6,079 
 36,350 
 1,109 
 Finance income 
 141 
 143 
 635 
 50 
 332 
 110 
 545 
 458 
 328 
 151 
 Share of results of 
associates 
3,680
 2,423 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (35) 
 (71)
 825 
 99 
 Profit on sale of assets 
& other income 
 640 
 236 
 535 
 981 
 2,222 
 1,868 
 501 
 452 
24 
 64 
 Valuation gain on IP 
 - 
 - 
 17 
 4 
 - 
 - 
 105 
 16 
 (4,288)
 (291)
37,011
 21,205 
 24,195 
 19,333 
93,610 
 72,378 
 21,709 
 6,934 
 33,239 
 1,132 
 Economic value 
distributed 
 Operating costs 
34,219
 16,266 
 15,235 
 10,363 
 83,695 
 61,697 
 13,098 
 4,686 
 33,206 
 839 
 Employee wages & 
benefits 
 672 
 728 
 3,307 
 2,892 
 4,689 
 3,914 
 4,327 
 4,105 
 448 
 375 
 Payments to providers 
of funds 
 825 
 546 
 1,898 
 2,325 
 2,775 
 2,548 
 994 
 539 
 300 
 20 
 Payments to 
government 
 288 
 142 
 1,160 
 1,088 
 780 
 499 
 325 
 47 
 102 
 65 
 Community 
investments 
 7 
 6 
 20 
 25 
 23 
 11 
 7 
 4 
 4 
 - 
 36,011 
 17,688 
 21,620 
 16,693 
 91,962 
 68,669 
 18,751 
 9,381 
34,060 
 1,299 
 Economic value 
retained 
 Depreciation 
 201 
 202 
 940 
 853 
 1,340 
 1,181 
 2,230 
 2,207 
 57 
 46 
 Amortisation 
 60 
 61 
 45 
 10 
 1,282 
 1,055 
 1,706 
 1,557 
 28 
 23 
 Profit after dividends 
739
 3,254 
 1,590 
 1,777 
 (974)
 1,473 
 (978)
 (6,211)
 (906)
 (236)
 Retained for 
reinvestment / 
growth 
1000
 3,517 
 2,575 
 2,640 
 1,648 
 3,709 
 2,958 
 (2,447)
 (821)
 (167)
Above data has been derived from the audited Financial Statements that were prepared based on Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRS/LKAS).  
 
 
This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option

 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance   l    Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
297
Financial Services
Others
Total
Eliminations/
Adjustments
Group Total
2022
2021
2022
2021
2022
2021
2022
2021
2022
%
2021
%
 15,686 
 13,603 
 6,745 
 6,358 
 225,988 
 134,250 
(7,913)
 (6,574)
 218,075 
85.80
 127,676 
 88.11 
 5,778 
 5,450 
 32,441 
 13,067 
 40,200 
 19,429 
 (9,394)
 (8,740)
 30,806 
 12.12 
 10,689 
 7.38 
 2,276 
 1,708 
 - 
 - 
6,746
 4,159 
 - 
 - 
6,746
2.65
 4,159 
 2.87 
 28 
 42 
 260 
 1,861 
 4,210 
 5,504 
(1,595)
 (2,877)
 2,615 
 1.03
 2,627 
 1.81 
 - 
 - 
 81 
 18 
 (4,085)
 (253)
 - 
 - 
 (4,085)
 (1.61)
 (253)
 (0.17)
 23,768 
 20,803 
39,527 
 21,304 
273,059
 163,089 
 (18,902)
 (18,191)
254,157
 100.00 
 144,898 
 100.00 
14,958 
 14,944 
 13,056 
 12,129 
207,467
 120,924 
 (11,790)
 (10,947)
195,677
 76.99 
 109,977 
 75.90 
 1,647 
 1,351 
 2,245 
 1,977 
 17,335 
 15,342 
 - 
 - 
 17,335 
 6.82 
 15,342 
 10.59 
 1,898 
 1,178 
 5,690 
 3,707 
 14,380 
 10,863 
 (5,100)
 (4,444)
 9,280 
 3.65 
 6,419 
 4.43 
 680 
 307 
 1,143 
 918 
 4,478 
 3,066 
 - 
 - 
 4,478 
 1.76 
 3,066 
 2.12 
 1 
 13 
 97 
 76 
 159 
 135 
 - 
 - 
 159 
 0.06 
 135 
 0.09 
 19,184 
 17,793 
22,231 
 18,807 
243,819
 150,330 
 (16,890)
 (15,391)
 226,929
 89.29 
 134,939 
 93.13 
 100 
 84 
 147 
 153 
 5,015 
 4,726 
 - 
 - 
 5,015 
1.97
 4,726 
 3.26 
 374 
 508 
 51 
 47 
 3,546 
 3,261 
 - 
 - 
 3,546 
 1.40 
 3,261 
 2.25 
 4,110 
 2,418 
 17,098 
 2,297 
 20,679 
 4,772 
 (2,012)
 (2,800)
 18,667
 7.34 
 1,972 
 1.36 
 4,584 
 3,010 
 17,296 
 2,497 
 29,240 
 12,759 
 (2,012)
 (2,800)
 27,228
 10.71 
 9,959 
 6.87 
 
 
 
 

298 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Indicative US Dollar Financial Statements
Income Statement
for information purposes only
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31st March
2022
2021
2022
2021
In USD '000s
Continuing operations 
Revenue from contracts with customers
 665,079 
 571,415 
 6,150 
 8,173 
Revenue from Insurance Contracts
 49,920 
 66,007 
 - 
 - 
Total Revenue
 714,999 
 637,422 
 6,150 
 8,173 
Cost of sales
 (591,574)
 (542,921)
 (3,558)
 (4,780)
Gross profit
 123,425
 94,501 
 2,592
 3,393 
Dividend income
 - 
 - 
 26,255 
 41,669 
Other operating income
 8,573 
 13,113 
 168 
 203 
Selling and distribution expenses
 (18,796)
 (23,770)
 - 
 - 
Administrative expenses
 (48,402)
(64,542)
 (4,207)
 (5,243)
Other operating expenses
 (40,839)
(6,562)
 (1,687)
 (107)
Results from operating activities
23,961
 12,740 
 23,121
 39,915 
Finance cost
 (23,065)
 (23,311)
 (9,725)
 (6,215)
Finance income
 101,004 
 53,364 
 79,339 
 23,052 
Change in insurance contract liabilities
 (21,037)
 (35,106)
 - 
 - 
Change in fair value of investment property
 (13,393)
 (1,265)
 - 
 - 
Share of results of equity accounted investees (net of tax)
22,118
 20,763 
 - 
 - 
Profit before tax 
 89,588 
 27,185 
 92,735 
 56,752 
Tax expense
 (22,563)
(7,460)
 (12,782)
(4,000)
Profit for the year 
 67,025 
19,725
 79,953 
52,752
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent
 66,272 
23,825
Non-controlling interests
 753
 (4,100)
 67,025
19,725
Earnings per share
Basic earnings per ordinary share
0.05
0.02
Diluted earnings per ordinary share
0.05
0.02
This information does not constitute a full set of financial statements in compliance with SLFRS/LKAS. The above should be read together with the 
Auditors' opinion and the notes to the financial statements. Exchange rates prevailing at year end USD/Rs.305 (2021 - 200.30) have been used to 
convert the income statement and statement of financial position.

 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance   l    Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
299
Statement of Financial Position 
for information purposes only
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2022
2021
2022
2021
In USD '000s
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment
 407,697 
 564,536 
 273 
 553 
Right- of - use assets
 175,349 
 202,780 
-
Investment property
 100,353 
74,225
 - 
 - 
Intangible assets
 17,703 
 24,229 
 309 
 487 
Investments in subsidiaries 
 - 
 - 
 383,497 
 505,914 
Investments in equity accounted investees
 111,035 
 142,935 
 43,481 
 52,905 
Non-current financial assets
 159,641 
 312,480 
 10,108 
 87,924 
Deferred tax assets
 5,097 
 5,437 
 - 
 - 
Other non-current assets
 593,180 
522,118
 393 
 463 
 1,570,055 
1,848,740
 438,061 
 648,246 
Current assets
Inventories
 118,770 
 271,074 
 - 
 - 
Trade and other receivables
 90,149 
 87,153 
 341 
 573 
Amounts due from related parties
 644 
 617 
 2,166 
 7,318 
Other current assets
 39,064 
 29,553 
 2,677 
 853 
Short term investments
 363,021 
 345,795 
 275,320 
 257,569 
Cash in hand and at bank
 171,726 
 97,017 
 89,712 
 1,525 
 783,374 
 831,209 
 370,216 
 267,838 
Total assets
 2,353,429
2,679,949
 808,277
 916,084 
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent
Stated capital
 239,960 
 315,036 
 239,960 
 315,036 
Revenue reserves
 357,663 
452,581
296,991
340,573
Other components of equity
422,988
 361,473 
 19,703 
 18,077 
 1,020,611 
1,129,090
556,654
673,686
Non-controlling interest
 61,656 
84,024
 - 
 - 
Total equity
 1,082,267
1,213,114
556,654
673,686
Non-current liabilities
Insurance contract liabilities
 168,358 
 225,465 
 - 
 - 
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
 521,055 
 593,937 
 211,915 
 220,567 
Lease liabilities
 98,580 
 120,993 
 - 
 - 
Deferred tax liabilities
 39,398 
 38,543 
 9,318 
 - 
Employee benefit liabilities
 10,186 
 14,049 
 977 
 1,155 
Non-current financial liabilities
 7,914 
 18,277 
 - 
 - 
Other non-current liabilities
 722 
 97,582 
 - 
 - 
 846,213 
 1,108,846 
 222,210 
 221,722 
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables
 142,523 
 176,174 
 1,857 
 1,861 
Amounts due to related parties
 6 
 7 
 69 
 66 
Income tax liabilities
 8,585 
9,926
2,888
3,582
Short term borrowings
 48,633 
 34,467 
 6,557 
 - 
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
 133,195 
 47,466 
 8,403 
 15,014 
Lease liabilities
 11,343 
 7,350 
 - 
 - 
Other current financial liabilities
 - 
 14,933 
 - 
 - 
Other current liabilities
 14,034 
 8,654 
 - 
 104 
Bank overdrafts
 66,630 
 59,012 
 9,639 
 49 
 424,949 
357,989
29,413
20,676
Total equity and liabilities
 2,353,429
 2,679,949 
 808,277
916,084
This information does not constitute a full set of financial statements in compliance with SLFRS/LKAS. The above should be read together with the 
Auditors' opinion and the notes to the financial statements. Exchange rates prevailing at year end USD/Rs.305 (2021 - 200.30) have been used to 
convert the income statement and statement of financial position.

300 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Group Real Estate Portfolio
Land in acres
Net book value
Owning company and location
Number of
 Buildings
Buildings
in (sq. ft.)
Freehold
Leasehold
2022
Rs.‘000s
2021
Rs.‘000s
PROPERTIES IN COLOMBO
John Keells PLC
 56/1, 58, 58 1/1 Kirulapone Avenue, Colombo 5.
 - 
 - 
0.08
 - 
 1,250 
 1,250 
Keells Realtors Ltd
  427 & 429, Ferguson Road, Colombo 15.
2
27,750
1.22
 - 
 424,122 
 405,060 
Mackinnon Keells Ltd
  Leyden Bastian Road, York Street, Colombo 01.
1
31,656
0.45
 - 
 735,000 
 703,646 
Union Assurance PLC
 No 20, St. Michaels' Road, Colombo 03.
1
57,916
0.58
 - 
 2,098,518
 1,949,985 
Vauxhall Developments (Pvt) Ltd 
  No.199 ,Union Place, Colombo 2 and 148, Vauxhall 
Street, Colombo 2.
7
 209,484 
3.56
 - 
 9,687,620
 8,832,830 
  No.188, 188/1, 188/2, 190, 192 Vauxhall Street, Colombo 
2 and 42, Dawson Street, Colombo 2.
 - 
 - 
2.09
 - 
 5,684,800 
 5,183,200 
 No. 186, 186/3 Vauxhall Street, Colombo 2.
 - 
 - 
3.72
 - 
 10,130,470 
 9,236,605 
Waterfront Properties (Pvt) Ltd. 
No 5, Justice Akbar Mawatha, Slave Island, Colombo 2
1
207,480
 0.76 
 - 
 15,530,000 
 - 
John Keells Property Developments 
  No. 12, 12/1, 12/2, 12/2A, 12/3, Tickell Road, Borella.
 - 
 - 
-
 - 
-
 1,137,120 
Glennie Properties (Pvt) Ltd 
  No.82, Glennie Street, Colombo 02.
 - 
 - 
0.08
 - 
 193,920
 181,800 
John Keells Logistics (Pvt) Ltd
  No.11, York Street, Colombo 01.
2
134,000
 - 
 - 
 103,319
160,146
14
668,286
12.54
 - 
 44,589,019
 27,791,642 
PROPERTIES OUTSIDE COLOMBO
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC
  Kaduwela.
22
334,804
27.35
 - 
 1,817,815 
 1,551,254 
  Trincomalee.
3
19,071
1.06
 - 
 317,250 
 300,295 
  Kotagala
6
13,354
 - 
 0.71 
 97,531 
 - 
Facets (Pvt) Ltd
 Ahungalla.
-
 - 
 6.31 
 - 
 479,200
 443,800 
John Keells PLC
  17/1, Temple Road, Ekala, Ja-Ela.
1
1,200
3.77
 - 
 422,730
 392,535 
John Keells Properties Ja-Ela (Pvt) Ltd
  No 525, Colombo Road, Kapuwatta, Ja-Ela.
1
 144,631 
 6.60 
 - 
 2,088,000
 2,038,487 
John Keells Warehousing (Pvt) Ltd
  Muthurajawela.
3
146,743
 - 
 6.19 
 389,521
 356,047 
Keells Food Products PLC
  41, Temple Road, Ekala, Ja-Ela.
8
52,698
 3.00 
 1.00 
 388,748 
 361,896 
  Gonawala, Pannala.
4
41,166
 3.86 
 4.08 
 346,964 
 347,652 
Logipark International (Pvt) Ltd 
 
 
 
 
  Muthurajawela.
-
-
-
 9.00
 2,456,826
 582,176
Rajawella Holdings Ltd
 Mahaberiatenna, Kandy.
4
 57,998 
 - 
 367.83 
 1,796,497
1,985,862
Tea Smallholder Factories PLC
  Broadlands.
14
 61,040 
 4.14 
 - 
 101,627 
 83,345 
  Halwitigala.
14
56,422
 9.61 
 - 
 80,136 
 69,544 
  Hingalgoda.
26
66,478
 12.04 
 - 
 116,135 
 105,278 
  Karawita.
12
 79,244 
-
 4.98 
 142,474 
 121,225 
  Kurupanawa.
22
57,135
 12.12 
 - 
 104,272 
 90,383 
  Neluwa.
18
 49,552 
 3.74 
 - 
 91,752 
 79,472 
  New Panawenna.
8
46,389
10.62
 - 
 75,493 
 58,654 
  Peliyagoda.
1
 31,629 
 - 
 0.98 
 440,324 
 424,605 
167
1,259,554
104.22
394.77
 11,753,295 
9,392,510

 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance   l    Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
301
Land in acres
Net book value
Owning company and location
Number of
 Buildings
Buildings
in (sq. ft.)
Freehold
Leasehold
2022
Rs.‘000s
2021
Rs.‘000s
PROPERTIES OUTSIDE COLOMBO
The Colombo Ice Company (Pvt) Ltd
 Awissawella.
9
 182,937 
 -   
 9.30 
 1,694,226
 1,699,430 
J K Thudella Properties (Pvt) Ltd
  Tudella, Ja-Ela.
 -   
 -   
 12.11 
 -   
 581,370
 523,233 
Union Assurance PLC
 No 06,Rajapihilla Road, Kurunegala.
1
27,904
 0.20 
 -   
 347,578
 313,856 
Whittall Boustead Ltd
  150, Badulla Road, Nuwara Eliya.
1
4,343
 0.46 
 -   
 171,200
 152,834 
178
1,474,738
116.99
 404.07 
 14,547,669
12,081,863
HOTEL PROPERTIES
Asian Hotels and Properties PLC
  Cinnamon Grand Premises, Colombo 2.
4
734,932
 6.64 
 -   
 26,052,814 
 25,363,435 
  Crescat Boulevard, Colombo 2.
1
145,196
 1.39 
 -   
 6,486,065 
 6,030,134 
Ahungalla Holiday Resort (Pvt) Ltd
 Ahungalla.
-
 -   
 6.51 
 -   
 319,100
 295,250 
Beruwala Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
 Cinnamon Bey, Beruwala.
9
 460,515 
 10.82 
 -   
 4,145,822
 3,884,246 
Ceylon Holiday Resorts Ltd
  Bentota Beach Hotel, Bentota.
8
 308,658 
 2.02 
 11.92 
 4,501,495
 4,298,059 
Fantasea World Investments (Pte) Ltd
  Chaaya Lagoon Hakuraa Huraa, Republic of Maldives.
163
 236,730 
 -   
 18.90 
 12,226,001
 8,371,773 
Habarana Lodge Ltd
  Cinnamon Lodge, Habarana.
79
101,162
 -   
 34.00 
 755,646
 662,512 
Habarana Walk Inn Ltd
  Chaaya Village, Habarana.
84
90,479
 -   
 9.34 
 318,116
 280,376 
Hikkaduwa Holiday Resort (Pvt) Ltd
  Chaaya Tranz, Hikkaduwa.
5
218,362
 0.29 
 4.43 
 1,832,211
 1,220,381 
Kandy Walk Inn Ltd
  Cinnamon Citadel, Kandy.
6
128,302
 5.33 
 -   
 1,745,394
 1,605,598 
Nuwara Eliya Holiday Resort (Pvt) Ltd
 Nuwara Eliya.
-
 -   
 -   
 -   
-
 279,000 
Resort Hotels Ltd
  Medway Estate, Nilaveli.
1
 4,485 
 41.73 
 -   
 961,700
 906,900 
Trans Asia Hotels PLC
  Cinnamon Lake Side, Colombo 2.
2
371,611
 -   
 7.65 
 6,304,361
 6,148,708 
Tranquility (Pte) Ltd
  Chaaya Island Dhonveli, Republic of Maldives.
146
261,327
 -   
 17.16 
 26,067,067
 17,491,160 
Tranquility (Pte) Ltd
  Velifushi, Republic of Maldives.
145
 263,512 
 -   
 13.22 
 8,616,321
 6,404,531 
Travel Club (Pte) Ltd
  Chaaya Reef Ellaidhoo, Republic of Maldives.
115
178,294
 -   
 13.80 
 6,901,435
 5,121,455 
Trinco Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
  Chaaya Blu, Trincomalee.
9
120,910
 13.24 
 -   
 1,484,335
 1,358,613 
Trinco Walk Inn Ltd
  Club Oceanic, Trincomalee.
-
 -   
 14.64 
 -   
 392,500
 369,200 
Wirawila Walk Inn Ltd
  Randunukelle Estate, Wirawila.
-
 - 
 25.15 
 - 
 95,600
 89,300 
Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd
  Cinnamon Wild, Tissamaharama.
78
106,052
 -   
 9.34 
 498,109
 487,108 
855
3,730,527
127.76
139.76
 109,704,092
90,667,739
Improvements to Keells Super outlets on leased hold 
properties and lease rentals paid in advance
130
 1,405,272 
 -   
 99.64 
 16,558,634
 15,536,349 
Consolidated Value of Land and Buildings, Right of Use 
Assets and Investment Property
1,177
 7,278,823.00 
 257.29 
 643.47 
 185,399,414
146,077,593

302 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Glossary
ACCRUAL BASIS
Recording revenues and expenses in the period 
in which they are earned or incurred regardless 
of whether cash is received or disbursed in that 
period.
ASSET TURNOVER
Revenue including equity accounted investees 
divided by average total assets.
BETA
Covariance between daily JKH share return and 
market return divided by variance of daily market 
return, over a 5-year period.
CAPITAL EMPLOYED
Shareholders’ funds plus non-controlling interests 
and debt including lease liabilities.
CAPITAL STRUCTURE LEVERAGE (CSL)
Average total assets divided by average 
shareholders’ equity.
CASH EARNINGS PER SHARE
Profit attributable to equity holders of the 
parent adjusted for non-cash items minus share 
of profits of equity accounted investees plus 
dividends from equity accounted investees 
divided by the weighted average number of 
ordinary shares in issue during the period
COMMON EARNINGS LEVERAGE (CEL)
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 
divided by profit after tax.
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
A condition or situation existing as at the date 
of the Report due to past events, where the 
financial effect is not recognised because:
1. The obligation is crystallised by the 
occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more 
future events or,
2. A probable outflow of economic resources is 
not expected or,
3. It is unable to be measured with sufficient 
reliability
CURRENT RATIO
Current assets divided by current liabilities.
DEBT/EQUITY RATIO
Debt as a percentage of shareholders’ funds and 
non-controlling interests.
DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPS)
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 
divided by the weighted average number 
of ordinary shares in issue during the period 
adjusted for options granted but not exercised.
DIVIDEND PAYABLE
Final dividend per share multiplied by the latest 
available total number of shares as at the date of 
the Report.
DIVIDEND PAYOUT RATIO
Dividend paid as a percentage of Group profits 
adjusted for non-cash gains items.
DIVIDEND YIELD
Dividends adjusted for changes in number of 
shares in issue as a percentage of the share price 
(diluted) at the end of the period.
EARNINGS PER SHARE (BASIC)
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 
divided by the weighted average number of 
ordinary shares in issue during the period.
EBIT
Earnings before interest expense and tax 
(includes other operating income). Note that 
EBIT includes interest income, fair value gains 
and losses on investment property, depreciation 
and amortisation, and share of results of equity 
accounted investees, but excludes exchange 
gains or losses.
EBITDA
Earnings before interest expense, tax, 
depreciation and amortisation (includes other 
operating income). Note that EBITDA includes 
interest income, fair value gains and losses on 
investment property and share of results of equity 
accounted investees, but excludes exchange 
gains or losses.
EBIT MARGIN
EBIT divided by revenue inclusive of share of 
equity accounted investees.
EFFECTIVE RATE OF TAXATION
Tax expense divided by profit before tax.
ENTERPRISE VALUE (EV)
Market capitalisation plus net debt/(net cash).
INTEREST COVER
Consolidated profit before interest and tax over 
interest expense.
LIABILITIES TO TANGIBLE NET WORTH
Total non-current and current liabilities including 
contingent liabilities divided by tangible net 
worth.
LONG-TERM DEBT TO TOTAL DEBT
Long-term loans as a percentage of total debt.
MARKET CAPITALISATION
Number of shares in issue at the end of the 
period multiplied by the market price at the end 
of the period.
NET ASSETS
Total assets minus current liabilities, long-term 
liabilities, and non-controlling interests.
NET ASSETS PER SHARE
Net assets as at a particular financial year end 
divided by the number of shares in issue as at the 
current financial year end.
NET DEBT (CASH)
Total debt minus cash in hand and at bank 
minus short term investments minus deposits 
with a maturity between 1 and 3 years held at 
the Holding Company, excluding short-term 
investments under the life fund of UA, restricted 
regulatory fund at UA and customer advances at 
the Property Development sector. 
NET PROFIT MARGIN
Profit after tax attributable to equity holders of 
the parent divided by total revenue including 
equity accounted investees.
PRICE EARNINGS RATIO
Market price per share over diluted earnings per 
share.
PRICE TO BOOK RATIO
Market price per share over net asset value per 
share.
PRICE TO CASH EARNINGS
Market price per share divided by diluted cash 
earnings per share.
PUBLIC HOLDING
Percentage of shares held by the public 
calculated as per the Colombo Stock Exchange 
Listing Rules as at the date of the Report.
QUICK RATIO
Cash plus short-term investments plus 
receivables, divided by current liabilities.
RECURRING EBITDA/RECURRING EBIT/ 
RECURRING PBT/RECURRING PAT/
RECURRING PAT TO EQUITY HOLDERS OF 
THE PARENT
Profit, as applicable, adjusted for the one-off 
impacts discussed under the Group Consolidated 
Review section of the Report: Page 42.
RETURN ON ASSETS
Profit after tax divided by the average total assets.
RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED (ROCE)
EBIT as a percentage of average capital employed.
RETURN ON EQUITY (ROE)
Profit attributable to shareholders as a percentage 
of average shareholders’ funds.
SCOPE 1 AND SCOPE 2
The GHG Protocol has established a classification 
of GHG emissions called ‘Scope’: Scope 1, Scope 
2 and Scope 3. The GHG emissions standard 
published by the International Organisation for 
Standardisation (ISO), ‘ISO 14064’, represents these 
classifications of Scope with the following terms:
1. Direct GHG emissions = Scope I
2. Energy indirect GHG emissions = Scope 2
SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS
Total of stated capital, other components of 
equity and revenue reserves.
TANGIBLE NET WORTH
Total equity less intangible assets and deferred 
tax assets.
TOTAL DEBT
Long and short-term loans, including overdrafts, 
but excluding lease liabilities. Instances where 
total debt includes lease liabilities are explicitly 
mentioned.
TOTAL EQUITY
Shareholders’ funds plus non-controlling interest.
WORKING CAPITAL
Current assets minus current liabilities.

 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance   l    Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
303
Independent Assurance Statement
Introduction
DNV represented by DNV Business Assurance 
Lanka (Private) Limited (‘DNV’) has been 
commissioned by the management of John 
Keells Holdings PLC (‘JKH’ or ‘the Company’, 
Corporate Registration Number PQ14) to carry 
out an independent assurance engagement 
of its non-financial/sustainability performance 
(qualitative and quantitative data) disclosed 
in the JKH’s Annual Report 2021/22 (‘the 
Report’) in its printed and online formats. 
The sustainability performance in this Report 
covers disclosures corresponding to the 
reporting period 1 April 2021 – 31 March 2022 
and related to material topics identified by 
JKH. 
The sustainability disclosures have been 
prepared by JKH based on the Guiding 
Principles and Content Elements of the 
International <IR> Framework (January 2021, 
the ‘<IR> Framework’) of the International 
Integrated Reporting Council (‘IIRC’), 
the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI’s) 
Sustainability Reporting Standards (‘GRI 
Standards’) and other frameworks to which 
JKH subscribes, to bring out the various 
Content Elements of the <IR> Framework 
as well as performance trends related to 
identified material topics. 
The reporting topic boundaries for non-
financial performance are based on the 
internal and external materiality assessment 
carried out by JKH covering identified material 
topics for the various business sectors of JKH, 
and is as brought out in the Report in the 
section ‘Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder 
Engagement and Materiality’. The Report does 
not include performance data and information 
related to the activities of non-operational 
entities, investment entities and companies 
holding only land, over which JKH does not 
exercise operational and management control.
We performed our assurance (Type 
2, Moderate level) activities based on 
AccountAbility’s AA1000 Assurance Standard 
v3, and DNV’s assurance methodology 
VeriSustainTM1 . In doing so, we evaluated 
the qualitative and quantitative disclosures 
presented in the Report, together with using 
the Guiding Principles of the <IR> Framework, 
together with JKH’s protocols for measuring, 
recording and reporting sustainability 
performance. Our assurance engagement was 
planned and carried out in February 2022 – 
May 2022.
The intended user of this assurance statement 
is the Management of JKH. We disclaim any 
liability or responsibility to a third party for 
decisions, whether investment or otherwise, 
based on this Assurance Statement. We 
planned and performed our work to obtain 
the evidence we considered necessary to 
provide a basis for our assurance opinion and 
this process did not involve engagement with 
any external stakeholders. 
Responsibilities of the Management of 
JKH and of the Assurance Provider
The Management of the Company has the 
sole responsibility for the preparation of the 
Report as well as the processes for collecting, 
analysing and reporting the information 
presented in the Report and also responsible 
for ensuring the maintenance and integrity 
of its website and referenced disclosures on 
sustainability performance and management 
approach. In performing this assurance work, 
DNV’s responsibility is to the Management 
of JKH; however, this statement represents 
our independent opinion and is intended to 
inform the outcome of the assurance to the 
stakeholders of the Company.
DNV’s assurance engagements are based on 
the assumption that the data and information 
provided by the client to us as part of our 
review have been provided in good faith and 
free from material misstatements or errors. 
We were not involved in the preparation of 
any statements or data included in the Report 
except for this Assurance Statement.
We did not come across limitations to scope 
of the agreed assurance agreement during 
our assurance process. The reported data on 
economic performance and other financial 
data of JKH within the Report are based on 
audited financial statements which have been 
subjected to a separate independent statutory 
audit process and is not included in our scope 
of work. 
Basis of our Opinion
We planned and performed our work to 
obtain the evidence considered necessary 
to provide a basis for our assurance opinion, 
and as part of the assurance engagement, a 
multi-disciplinary team of sustainability and 
assurance specialists conducted assessments 
and interactions with key internal stakeholders 
at JKH’s Corporate Office in Colombo and 
sample operations of the Group based on 
DNV’s sampling plan. We adopted a risk-
based approach, that is, we concentrated 
our verification efforts on the issues of 
high material relevance to JKH and its key 
stakeholders. We undertook the following 
activities:
• Reviewed JKH’s approach towards 
addressing the Guiding Principles and 
Content Elements of the <IR> Framework 
and the Principles for Defining Report 
Content and Quality as per GRI Standards 
(GRI 101: Foundation 2016), including 
stakeholder engagement and materiality 
determination processes;
• Carried out site assessments of sample 
operations of the Group - (i) JKH’s Corporate 
Office, Vauxhall Street - Colombo (ii) 
Cinnamon Citadel – Kandy (iii) John Keells 
IT’s Corporate Office - Colombo (iv) Keells 
Outlet – Hokandara (v) John Keells Logistics 
Warehouse at Thudella, and (vi) Keells 
Food Products at Ja Ela - to review the 
processes and systems for preparing site 
level sustainability data and implementation 
of sustainability strategy. DNV was free to 
choose sites for conducting assessments; 
• Conducted interviews with senior 
management teams and other 
representatives including data owners 
and decision-makers responsible for 
implementation of the Group’s policies and 
management of sustainability issues as 
disclosed within the Report. We were free to 
choose interviewees and interviewed those 
with overall responsibility to deliver JKH’s 
sustainability objectives;
• Assessed the robustness of the data 
management systems, data accuracy, 
information flow and controls for 
the reported disclosures and specific 
performance data related to identified 
material topics, as well as the processes 
for data consolidation in context to the 
principle of Completeness as per DNV’s 
VeriSustain;
• Examined and reviewed selected 
supporting evidences including documents, 
data and other information made available 
by JKH related to sustainability disclosures 
presented within the Report; 
1  The VeriSustain protocol is available on request from www.dnv.com and is based on our professional experience, international assurance best practices including the International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (ISAE 3000) Revised 
(Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information) and GRI’s Reporting Principles. GRI’s Principles for defining Report Content and Quality.

304 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
• Performed an independent assessment 
of JKH’s reporting against the reporting 
requirements for the GRI Standards: Core 
option of reporting, as well as the value 
creation disclosures related to the capitals 
identified by JKH and Content Elements of 
the <IR> Framework. 
Opinion and Observations
On the basis of our assurance work 
undertaken, nothing has come to our 
attention to suggest that the Report does 
not properly describe JKH’s adherence to the 
Reporting Principles of the GRI Standards 
and the Guiding Principles and Content 
Elements of the <IR> Framework. This 
includes requirements for a Core option of 
reporting (GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 
and GRI 103: Management Approach 2016), 
representation of the material topics including 
chosen topic-specific disclosures (below) from 
the GRI Standards to bring out its sustainability 
performance, business model, disclosures on 
value creation through identified capitals, and 
related strategies:
- GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 –  
201-1, 201-3; 
- GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 – 
203-1; 
- GRI 204; Procurement Practices 2016 – 204-1; 
- GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 – 205-1; 
- GRI 207: Tax 2019 – 207-1, 207-2, 207-3,  
207-4; 
- GRI 302: Energy 2016 – 302-1, 302 -2, 302-4; 
- GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018 – 303-1, 
303-2, 303-3, 303-4; 
- GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016 - 304-1; 
- GRI 305: Emissions 2016 – 305-1, 305-2; 
- GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 – 306-3;
- GRI 306: Waste 2020 – 306-1, 306-2, 306-3; 
- GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016 – 
307-1; 
- GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 
2016 – 308-1; 
- GRI 401: Employment 2016 – 401-1; 
- GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 
2018 – 403-1, 403-2, 403-3, 403-4, 403-5,  
403-6, 403-7, 403-9; 
- GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 –  
404-1, 404-3; 
- GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 
2016 – 405-1; 
- GRI 407: Freedom of Association and 
Collective Bargaining 2016 – 407-1
- GRI 408: Child Labor 2016 – 408-1; 
- GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016 – 
409-1; 
- GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 – 413-1; 
- GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 – 
414-1; 
- GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016 - 
416-1; 
- GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016 –  
417-1, 417-3; 
- GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 – 
419-1.
Without affecting our assurance opinion, we 
also provide the following observations. 
Principles of the AA1000 Accountability 
Principles Standard (2018)
Inclusivity
The participation of stakeholders in developing 
and achieving an accountable and strategic 
response to Sustainability. 
The Report explains how JKH engages with its 
stakeholders who have significant influence 
over or who significantly affect its operations, 
through ongoing formal and informal 
processes. The modes and frequencies, as well 
as the key concerns and expectations that 
arise from these engagements are brought out 
by JKH.
Nothing has come to our attention to 
suggest that the Report does not meet the 
requirements related to the Principle of 
Inclusivity.
Materiality
The process of determining the issues that 
are most relevant to an organization and its 
stakeholders.
The Report describes the materiality 
assessment carried out by JKH covering the 
Group and its key business segments aimed 
at identifying significant environmental, social 
and governance topics which are important 
to its stakeholders and relevant to the Group’s 
long-term value creation. The identified 
material topics and matters are prioritized 
based on impacts and relative importance, to 
form the overall report content. JKH confirms 
that its material topics and topic boundaries 
have not changes significantly from the 
previous reporting period. 
Nothing has come to our attention to 
suggest that the Report does not meet the 
requirements related to the Principle of 
Materiality.
Responsiveness
The extent to which an organization responds 
to stakeholder issues.
The Report brings out descriptions of JKH’s 
processes towards responding to its material 
topics including evaluation of its business 
strategies through descriptions of the Group’s 
and individual business sectors’ policies, 
management approach, targets, performance 
indicators and governance mechanisms 
related to identified material matters such 
as key outcomes and impacts, in its Annual 
Report and corporate website. 
Nothing has come to our attention to 
suggest that the Report does not meet the 
requirements related to the Principle of 
Responsiveness.
Impact 
The level to which an organisation monitors, 
measures and is accountable for how its 
actions affect its broader ecosystems.
The Report describes the key metrics and 
management processes followed by JKH for 
monitoring, measuring and evaluating the 
non-financial impacts related to its identified 
material matters and key stakeholder groups 
across its various businesses and significant 
value chain entities. 
Nothing has come to our attention to 
suggest that the Report does not meet the 
requirements related to the Principle of 
Impact. 
Specific Evaluation of the Information on 
Sustainability Performance
We consider the methodology and the 
process for gathering information developed 
by JKH for its sustainability performance 
reporting to be appropriate, and the 
qualitative and quantitative data included in 
Independent Assurance Statement
2     The DNV Code of Conduct is available on request from www.dnv.com

 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance   l    Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
305
the Report was found to be identifiable and 
traceable; the personnel responsible were able 
to demonstrate the origin and interpretation 
of the data and its reliability. We observed that 
the Report presents a faithful description of 
the reported sustainability activities and goals 
achieved for the reporting period.
Reliability
The accuracy and comparability of information 
presented in the report, as well as the quality 
of underlying data management systems.
The Report brings out JKH’s sustainability 
performance related to its identified material 
matters using selected GRI topic-specific 
Standards. The sustainability performance data 
is captured on a quarterly basis from across 
its businesses through its data management 
system, and audited internally. The majority 
of the data and information verified through 
our assessments at sampled operational sites 
and aggregated at the corporate level were 
found to be fairly accurate and reliable. Some 
of the data inaccuracies identified during 
the verification process were found to be 
attributable to transcription, interpretation and 
aggregation errors and these errors have been 
identified, communicated and corrected. 
Nothing has come to our attention to 
suggest that the Report does not meet the 
requirements related to the Principle of 
Reliability.
Additional principles as per DNV 
VeriSustain
Completeness
How much of all the information that has been 
identified as material to the organisation and 
its stakeholders is reported.
The Report brings out the key requirements 
related to the <IR> framework including 
strategies and descriptions of business model 
and management approach towards creating 
value, and GRI General Disclosures and 
selected topic-specific Standards for bringing 
out its sustainability performance.
Nothing has come to our attention to 
suggest that the Report does not meet 
the requirements related to the Principle 
of Completeness with respect to scope, 
boundary and time.
Neutrality
The extent to which a report provides a 
balanced account of an organization’s 
performance, delivered in a neutral tone.
The Report presents JKH’s performance during 
the reporting period in a neutral manner 
so as to not unduly influence stakeholder 
opinions made on reported data and 
information, which includes descriptions of 
significant challenges and concerns related to 
stakeholders and business sectors, and overall 
macroeconomic environment and business 
outlook.
Nothing has come to our attention to 
suggest that the Report does not meet the 
requirements related to the Principle of 
Neutrality.
Statement of Competence and 
Independence 
DNV applies its own management standards 
and compliance policies for quality control, 
in accordance with ISO IEC 17021:2015 - 
Conformity Assessment Requirements for 
bodies providing audit and certification 
of management systems, and accordingly 
maintains a comprehensive system of quality 
control including documented policies and 
procedures regarding compliance with ethical 
requirements, professional standards and 
applicable legal and regulatory requirements. 
We have complied with the DNV Code of 
Conduct during the assurance engagement 
and maintain independence where required 
by relevant ethical requirements including 
the AA1000AS v3 Code of Practice. This 
engagement work was carried out by an 
independent team of sustainability assurance 
professionals. We were not involved in 
the preparation of any statements or data 
included in the Report except for this 
Assurance Statement and Management 
Report. DNV maintains complete impartiality 
toward stakeholders interviewed during the 
assurance process. We did not provide any 
services to JKH or its subsidiaries in the scope 
of assurance for the reporting period that 
could compromise the independence or 
impartiality of our work.
For DNV,
20th May 2022, Colombo, Sri Lanka.
DNV Business Assurance Lanka (Private) Limited is part of DNV – Business Assurance, a global provider of certification, verification, assessment and 
training services, helping customers to build sustainable business performance. www.dnv.com

306 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Group Directory
Sector
Company Name
Nature
Incorporated 
Year 
Addresses
Directors
Stated Capital & 
Effective Holding
TRANSPORTATION
Ports and Shipping
Colombo West 
International 
Terminal (Pvt) Ltd **
Ports & Shipping Services
2021
(PV 00238709)
No. 117, 
Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner 
Mawatha, Colombo 2.
T. 2475574
K.N.J.Balendra,
J.G.A.Cooray, S.Mehta, 
S.Tripathy, U.M.Abhyankar
USD 30,000,000
34%
Inchcape Mackinnon 
Mackenzie Shipping 
(Pvt) Ltd **
Port agency services, clearing 
& husbandary services and 
other support services
2021
(PV 00235035)
No 11, York Street,
Colombo 01
T. (0)11 247 5420
A.Z.Hashim, 
K.C.Subasinghe, 
K.D.Weerasinghe, 
M.E.Paice, R.R.Narayanan
Rs. 27,420,000
60%
Mackinnon 
Mackenzie & Co 
(Shipping) Ltd
Shipping Agency 
representation & freight 
forwarding services and 
acting as a NVOCC (Non-
Vessel Operating Cargo 
Carrier)
1973
(PB 359)
No 11, York Street, 
Colombo 01 
T. 2475420
K.D.Weerasinghe, 
K.C.Subasinghe, 
A.Z.Hashim 
 Rs. 5,000,000
99.90%
Maersk Lanka (Pvt) 
Ltd**
Shipping Agency 
representation & freight 
forwarding services
1992
(PV 2550)
Level 16, “Park Land” 33,  
Park Street, Colmbo 2
T. 0114794800
W.T.Ellawala, A.Z.Hashim, 
V.Agarwal, S.Iyer, 
S.Kekulawala 
Rs.10,000,000
30%
South Asia Gateway 
Terminals (Pvt) Ltd**
Ports & Shipping Services
1998
(PV 326)
Port of Colombo, P.O Box 141 
Colombo 1 
T. 2457500
K.N.J.Balendra-
Chairman, J.G.A.Cooray, 
K.D.Weerasinghe, N W 
Tambiah, K.C.Subasinghe, 
A.Z.Hashim, 
D.P.Gamlath,Yen-I 
Chang, S.S.Jakobsen, 
J.M.Bevis, M.Degryse, 
D.P.M.T.Jayamanna, 
J.R.Goldner,  
Capt. R.C.W.M.N 
Keppetipola 
Rs.3,788,485,900
42.19%
Logistics
DHL Keells (Pvt) Ltd** International express courier 
services
1986
PV 1307
No. 148, Vauxhall Street, 
Colombo 2
T. 2304304 / 4798600
K.N.J.Balendra-Chairman 
A.Z. Hashim, S.P.Wall, 
N.N.B.Abdullah
Rs.20,000,020
50%
John Keells Logistics 
(Pvt) Ltd
Integrated supply chain 
management
2006
PV318
No. 11, York Street, 
Colombo 1 T. 2475574
K.D.Weerasinghe, 
A.Z.Hashim 
Rs.200,000,000
100%
Mack International 
Freight (Pvt) Ltd
International freight 
forwarding and clearing & 
forwarding
1980
(PV 831)
No. 11, York Street,  
Colombo 1. T. 7671671
K.D.Weerasinghe, 
K.C.Subasinghe, A.Z.Hashim
Rs.130,000,000
100%
Lanka Marine 
Services (Pvt) Ltd
Importer & supplier of 
marine fuel oils
1993
(PV 475)
No. 4, Leyden Bastian Road, 
Colombo 1. T. 2475412-416
A.Z.Hashim, 
K.D.Weerasinghe, 
D.P.Gamlath
Rs.350,000,000
99.44%
Mackinnon 
Mackenzie & Co of 
Ceylon Ltd*
Foreign recruitment agents & 
consultants
1975
(PB 348)
No. 11, York Street,  
Colombo 1.  
T. 2475509
K.D.Weerasinghe, 
K.C.Subasinghe, A.Z.Hashim 
Rs.90,000
99.60%
Saffron Aviation (Pvt) 
Ltd
Domestic air line operations
2012
(PV 84728)
No. 11, York Street,
Colombo 1
T. 2475475
J.G.A.Cooray-Chairman, 
K.D.Weerasinghe, 
A.Z.Hashim, B.A.B.Goonetilleke, 
K.Balasundaram, 
H.D.Abeywickrema
 Rs.622,179,000
40%
Trans-ware Logistics 
(Pvt) Ltd*
Renting of storage space
1994
(PV 3134)
No. 11, York Street, 
Colombo 1. T. 2475537-9
K.C.Subasinghe, 
A.Z.Hashim, 
N.N.Mawilmada, 
K.D.Weerasinghe
 Rs.220,000,080
100%
Air Lines
Mack Air (Pvt) Ltd
General sales agents for 
airlines in Sri Lanka
1980
(PV 868)
No. 11, York Street, 
Colombo 1 
T. 2475335
K.D.Weerasinghe, 
K.C.Subasinghe, A.Z.Hashim 
Rs.12,500,000
100%
Mackinnons Travels 
(Pvt) Ltd 
IATA accredited travel 
agent and travel related 
services
1971
(PV 1261)
No. 11, York Street, 
Colombo 1
T. 2318600
K.D.Weerasinghe, 
K.C.Subasinghe, A.Z.Hashim
Rs.5,000,000
100%

 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance   l    Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
307
Sector
Company Name
Nature
Incorporated 
Year 
Addresses
Directors
Stated Capital & 
Effective Holding
CONSUMER 
FOODS
Ceylon Cold Stores 
PLC
Manufacture & Marketing 
of Beverages and frozen 
confectionery and the 
holding company of JayKay 
Marketing
1926
(PQ 4)
No.117,Chittampalam A 
Gardiner Mawatha,  
Colombo 02
T. 2318798
K.N.J.Balendra- Chairman, 
J.G.A.Cooray, D.P.Gamlath, 
M.Hamza, S.T.Ratwatte, 
R.S.W.Wijeratnam, 
P.N.Fernando, 
K.C.Subasinghe
Rs.918,200,000
81.36%
The Colombo Ice 
Company (Pvt) Ltd*
Manufacturing and 
Marketing of frozen 
confectionery
2016
(PV 113758)
No.117, Chittampalam  
A Gardiner Mawatha, 
Colombo 02. T. 2306000
P.N.Fernando, D.P.Gamlath
Rs.1,700,000,000
81.36%
John Keells Foods 
India (Pvt) Ltd*
Marketing of Branded meat 
and convenience food 
products
2008
(U15122MH
2008 FTC
180902)
D6, 1st floor, Plot No. 35, 
Ashirwad Society, Opp. Bank 
of Baroda, Gorai 1, Borivali 
(West), Mumbai – 400092.
T. 0091 1142591823,  
0091 1126148048, 26151853, 
2614736 
Fax: +91-11-2614 5222
P.N.Fernando, D.P.Gamlath
Rs.220,294,544 (INR 
90,000,000)
88.63%
Keells Food Products 
PLC
Manufacturer and 
distributor of Processed 
meat, breaded meat 
& convenience food 
products.
1982
(PQ 3)
P.O Box 10,No.16, 
Minuwangoda Road, Ekala 
Ja-Ela
T. 2236317/ 2236364
K.N.J.Balendra- 
Chairman, J.G.A.Cooray, 
D.P.Gamlath, S.De Silva, 
A.E.H.Sanderatne, 
I.Samarajiva, 
P.D.Samarasinghe , 
P.N.Fernando
Rs.1,294,815,000 
88.63%
RETAIL 
JayKay Marketing 
Services (Pvt) Ltd
Owns and Operates 
the "Keells" chain of 
supermarkets and "Nexus 
Mobile" loyalty card 
programme.
1980
(PV 33)
No.117, Chittampalam A 
Gardiner Mawatha, 
Colombo 02
T. 2316800
J.G.A.Cooray- Chairman, 
A.Wanniarachchi, 
K.C.Subasinghe , 
N.W.Tambiah
Rs.1,198,000,000
81.36%
John Keells Office 
Automation (Pvt) Ltd
Distributor/Reseller and 
Services Provider in Office 
Automation(OA), Retail 
Automation (RA) and 
Mobile Devices
1992
(PV 127)
Corporate Office: 90 Union 
Place, Colombo 2 
Technical Services:148, 
Vauxhall Street, Colombo 2
T. 2313000, 2431576, 
2445760
N.W.Tambiah, 
K.C.Subasinghe, 
D.P.Gamlath
Rs.5,000,000
100%
Logipark 
International (Pvt) 
Ltd
Integrated Supply Chain 
Management
2018
(PV 201610)
No.117, 
Chittampalam A. Gardiner 
Mawatha, Colombo - 02
T. 2306600, 2421101-8
A.Wanniarachchi, 
K.C.Subasinghe,
A.Z.Hashim 
Rs.. 1,058,750,000
81.36%
LEISURE
Hotel Management
Cinnamon Hotel 
Management Ltd
Operator & marketer of resort 
hotels
1974
(PB 7)
No.117, Chittampalam  
A Gardiner Mawatha,  
Colombo 02
T. 2306600, 2421101-8
C.L.P.Gunawardane, 
K.C.Subasinghe, 
J.E.P.Kehelpannala, 
M.H.Singhawansa,
M.R.Svensson
Rs.19,520,000
100%
Cinnamon Hotel 
Management 
International (Pvt) 
Ltd*
Operator & marketer of 
overseas hotels & resorts
2018
(PV 131788)
No.117 Chittampalam  
A Gardiner Mawatha,  
Colombo 02
C.L.P.Gunawardane, 
K.C.Subasinghe, 
J.E.P.Kehelpannala, 
M.H.Singhawansa, 
M.R.Svensson
Rs.500,000
100%
John Keells Hotels 
PLC*
Holding company of group 
resort hotel companies in 
Sri Lanka & Maldives
1979
(PQ 8)
No.117, Chittampalam  
A Gardiner Mawatha, 
Colombo 02
T. 2306600
K.N.J.Balendra–Chairman,
J.G.A.Cooray, S.Rajendra, 
M.R.Svensson, 
J.E.P.Kehelpannala, 
M.H.Singhawansa, 
T.L.F.W Jayasekera, 
A.K.Moonesinghe, 
Dr.K.Gunasekera
Rs.9,500,246,939
80.32%
Sentinel Realty (Pvt) 
Ltd**
Investment company for 
Hotel Development land
2011
(PV 80706)
No.117, Chittampalam  
A Gardiner 
Mawatha,Colombo 02
T. 2306600
B.A.B.Goonetilleke-
Chairman
N.N.Mawilmada, 
C.L.P.Gunewardane, 
K.Balasundaram
Rs.132,288,080
42.41%

308 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Group Directory
Sector
Company Name
Nature
Incorporated 
Year 
Addresses
Directors
Stated Capital & 
Effective Holding
LEISURE
City Hotels
Asian Hotels and 
Properties PLC - 
Cinnamon Grand.
Owner & operator of the five 
star city hotel "Cinnamon 
Grand"
1993
(PQ 2)
No.77, Galle Road, 
Colombo 3
T. 2437437 /2497206
K.N.J.Balendra - 
Chairman/ Managing 
Director, J.G.A.Cooray, 
C.L.P.Gunawardane, 
S.Rajendra, M.R.Svensson, 
J.Durairatnam, A.S.De 
Zoysa, A.Nanayakkara 
Rs.3,345,118,012
78.56%
Capitol Hotel 
Holdings Ltd**
Developer of City Business 
Hotels
2012
(PB 5013)
No.117, Chittampalam  
A Gardiner Mawatha, 
Colombo 02
T. 2306000
M.S.Weerasekera-
Chairman, M.R.Svensson, 
K.C.Subasinghe, 
D.A.Kannangara, 
M.D.R.Gunatilleke, 
L.C.H.Leow, 
A.J.Pathmarajah, 
M.D.M.Gunatileke 
Rs.1,168,800,100
19.47%
Trans Asia Hotels PLC Owner & operator of 
the five star city hotel 
"Cinnamon Lakeside".
1981
(PQ 5)
No. 115, Sir Chittampalam  
A Gardiner Mawatha, 
Colombo 02
T. 2491000
K.N.J.Balendra-Chairman, 
J,G,A,Cooray, S,Rajendra, 
C,L,P,Gunawardane, 
M.R.Svensson, 
N.L.Goonaratne, 
J.C.Ponniah,  
H.A.J De S.Wijeyeratne
Rs.1,112,879,750
82.74%
Resort Hotels - Sri Lanka
Ahungalla Holiday 
Resorts (Pvt) Ltd*
Owner of real estate
2012
(PV 85046)
No.117, Chittampalam  
A Gardiner Mawatha, 
Colombo 02
T. 2306000
C.L.P.Gunawardane, 
K.C.Subasinghe, 
M.H.Singhawansa, 
M.R.Svensson
Rs.133,490,000
80.32%
Beruwala Holiday 
Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
Owner & operator of 
"Cinnamon Bey" in 
Beruwala
2009
(PV 69678)
Moragolla Beruwala
T. 2306600, 034 2297000
C.L.P.Gunawardane, 
K.C.Subasinghe, 
M.H.Singhawansa, 
M.R.Svensson 
Rs.2,338,150,000
79.78%
Ceylon Holiday 
Resorts Ltd 
Owner & operator of 
"Cinnamon Bentota Beach" 
in Bentota 
1966
(PB 40)
Galle Road, Bentota
T. 034 2275176 / 034 
2275266
S.Rajendra, 
C.L.P.Gunawardane, 
M.H.Singhawansa, 
M.R.Svensson 
Rs.2,845,469,318
79.60%
Habarana Lodge Ltd Owner & operator of 
"Cinnamon Lodge Habarana" 
in Habarana
1978
(PB 38)
P.O Box 2, Habarana
T. 066 2270011-2/ 066 
2270072
S.Rajendra, 
C.L.P.Gunawardane, 
M.H.Singhawansa, 
M.R.Svensson
Rs.341,555,262
78.99%
Habarana Walk Inn 
Ltd
Owner & operator of 
"Habarana Village by 
Cinnamon" in Habarana
1973
(PB 33)
P.O Box 1, Habarana
T. 066 2270046-7/  
066 2270077
C.L.P Gunawardane, 
K C.Subasinghe, 
M H Singhawansa,
M R Svensson
Rs.126,350,000
79.34%
Hikkaduwa Holiday 
Resorts (Pvt) Ltd 
Owner & operator of "Hikka 
Tranz by Cinnamon" in 
Hikkaduwa
2010
(PV 71747)
P.O Box 1, Galle Road , 
Hikkaduwa
T. 091 2298000
C.L.P.Gunawardane, 
K.C.Subasinghe, 
M.H.Singhawansa, 
M.R.Svensson
Rs.1,062,635,460
79.60%
Indra Hotel and 
Resorts (Pvt) Ltd*
Owner of Cinnamon Red 
Kandy
2017
(PV 124247)
No. 273, Katugastota Road, 
Kandy
T. 081 2234346
Y.S.H.I.K.Silva, Y.S.H.R.S.Silva, 
Y.S.H.H.K.Silva, S.Rajendra , 
C.L.P Gunawardane
Rs.1,051,400,493
32.13%
International Tourists 
and Hoteliers Ltd*
Owner of Cinnamon 
Beruwala Holiday Resorts 
(Pvt) Limited
1973
(PB 17)
No.117, Chittampalam  
A Gardiner Mawatha, 
Colombo 02
T. 2306600, 2421101- 8
C.L.P.Gunawardane, 
K.C.Subasinghe, 
M.H.Singhawansa, 
M.R.Svensson
Rs.1,939,760,925
79.78%
Kandy Walk Inn Ltd
Owner & operator of 
"Cinnamon Citadel Kandy" 
in Kandy
1979
(PB 395)
No.124, Srimath Kuda 
Ratwatte Mawatha, Kandy
T. 081 2234365-6/ 
081 2237273-4
C.L.P.Gunawardane, 
K.C.Subasinghe, 
M.H.Singhawansa, 
M.R.Svensson 
Rs.115,182,009
79.03%
Nuwara Eliya Holiday 
Resorts (Pvt) Ltd*
Owner of real estate
2014
(PV98357)
No.117, Chittampalam  
A Gardiner Mawatha, 
Colombo 02
T. 2306000
C.L.P.Gunawardane, 
K.C.Subasinghe, 
M.H.Singhawansa, 
M.R.Svensson
Rs.325,024,820
80.32%
Rajawella Hotels 
Company Ltd*
Owner of real estate
1992
(PB 92)
No.117, Chittampalam  
A Gardiner Mawatha, 
Colombo 02
T. 2306000
C.L.P.Gunawardane, 
K.C.Subasinghe, M.H 
Singhawansa, M.R.Svensson
Rs.35,701,762
80.32%

 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance   l    Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
309
Sector
Company Name
Nature
Incorporated 
Year 
Addresses
Directors
Stated Capital & 
Effective Holding
LEISURE
Resort Hotels - Sri Lanka
Resort Hotels Ltd*
Owner of real estate
1978
(PB 193)
No.117,Chittampalam  
A Gardiner Mawatha, 
Colombo 02
T. 2306780, 2421101-8
C.L.P.Gunawardane, 
K.C.Subasinghe, 
M.H Singhawansa , 
M.R.Svensson
Rs.8,849,150
79.60%
Trinco Holiday 
Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
Owner & Operator of 
"Trinco Blu by Cinnamon" in 
Trincomalee
2009
(PV 69908)
Alles Garden, Uppuvelli, 
Sampathiv Post
T. 026 2222307 /  
026 2221611
C.L.P.Gunawardane, 
K.C.Subasinghe, M.H 
Singhawansa, M.R.Svensson
Rs.357,000,000
80.32%
Trinco Walk Inn Ltd*
Owner of Real Estate
1984
(PB 168)
Alles Garden, Uppuveli, 
Sampathiv Post, Trincomalee
T. 026 2222307 /  
011 2306600
C.L.P.Gunawardane, 
K.C.Subasinghe, M.H 
Singhawansa, M.R.Svensson
Rs.119,850,070
80.32%
Wirawila Walk Inn 
Ltd*
Owner of Real Estate
1994
(PB 89)
No.117, Chittampalam  
A Gardiner Mawatha, 
Colombo 02
T. 2306780, 2421101-8
C.L.P.Gunawardane, 
K.C.Subasinghe, 
M.H.Singhawansa
Rs.20,734,150
80.32%
Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd Owner & operator of 
"Cinnamon Wild" in Yala
1999
(PV 2868)
P.O Box 1, Kirinda, 
Tissamaharama
T. 047 2239449-52
M.A.Perera -Chairman, 
C.L.P.Gunawardane, 
S.Rajendra, 
M.H.Singhawansa, J.A.Davis, 
M.R.Svensson, N.W.Tambiah
Rs.319,427,600
75.33%
Resort Hotels - Maldives
Fantasea World 
Investments (Pte) Ltd 
Owner & operator of 
"Cinnamon Hakuraa Huraa" 
in Maldives
1997
(C 143/97)
2nd Floor, H.Maizan Building, 
Sosun Magu, Male,  
Republic of Maldives
T. 00960 6720014 / 00960 
6720064 / 00960 6720065
C.L.P.Gunawardane, 
S.Rajendra, 
J.E.P.Kehelpannala- 
Managing Director, 
M.H.Singhawansa, 
M.R.Svensson
Rs.341,573,190
80.32%
John Keells Maldivian 
Resorts (Pte) Ltd
Hotel holding company in 
the Maldives
1996
(C 208/96)
2nd Floor, H.Maizan Building, 
Sosun Magu, Male, Republic 
of Maldives
T. 00960 3329083 / 00960 
3304601 / 00960 3313738
J.E.P.Kehelpannala- 
Managing Director, 
S.Rajendra, 
C.L.P.Gunawardane, 
M.H.Singhawansa, 
M.R.Svensson
Rs.3,978,671,681
80.32%
Tranquility (Pte) Ltd
Owner and operator of 
"Cinnamon Dhoinveli" in 
Maldives
2004
(C 344/2004)
2nd Floor, H.Maizan Building, 
Sosun Magu, Male, Republic 
of Maldives
T. 009606640055 / 
009606640012
C.L.P.Gunawardane, 
S.Rajendra, 
J.E.P.Kehelpannala- 
Managing Director, 
M.H.Singhawansa , 
M.R.Svensson
Rs.552,519,608
80.32%
Travel Club (Pte) Ltd
Operator of "Cinnamon 
Ellaidhoo" in Maldives
1992
(C 121/92)
2nd Floor, H.Maizan Building, 
Sosun Magu, Male, Republic 
of Maldives
T. 00960 6660839 / 00960 
6660663 / 00960 6660664
C.L.P.Gunawardane, 
S.Rajendra & 
J.E.P.Kehelpannala- 
Managing Director, 
M.H.Singhawansa, 
M.R.Svensson
Rs.143,172,000
80.32%
Destination Management
Cinnamon Holidays 
(Pvt) Ltd
Service providers of Inbound 
and Outbound Tours
2015
(PV 101005)
No.117, Chittampalam A 
Gardiner Mawatha, Colombo 
02
T. 2306000
C.L.P.Gunawardane, 
K.C.Subasinghe, M.H 
Singhawansa, M.R.Svensson
Rs.200,000
80.32%
Serene Holidays 
(Pvt) Ltd
Tour operators
2006
(U63040MH
2006PTC
164985)
110, Bldg 2, Rolex Shopping 
Centre Premises, CHS Ltd, 
STN Road, NR Prashant Hotel, 
Goregoan (W), Mumbai, 
Mumbai City,  
Maharashtra, 400062
T. 091-22 42105210 99
K.C.Subasinghe, 
K.O.Agrawal
Rs.6,492,000
98.35%
Walkers Tours Ltd
Inbound tour operators
1969
(PB 249)
No.117, Chittampalam  
A Gardiner Mawatha, 
Colombo 02. T. 2306306
S.Rajendra, 
C.L.P.Gunawardane, 
I.N.Amaratunga
Rs.51,374,200
98.05%
Whittall Boustead 
(Travel) Ltd
Inbound tour operators
1977
(PB 112)
No.117, Chittampalam  
A Gardiner Mawatha, 
Colombo 02. T. 2306746
S.Rajendra , 
C.L.P.Gunawardane, 
I.N.Amaratunga
Rs.250,410,000
100%

310 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Group Directory
Sector
Company Name
Nature
Incorporated 
Year 
Addresses
Directors
Stated Capital & 
Effective Holding
PROPERTY
Property Development
Asian Hotels and 
Properties PLC - 
Crescat. Boulevard, 
The Monarch, The 
Emperor. 
Developer of 'Crescat 
Residencies', 'The Monarch' 
& 'The Emperor' Residential 
Towers Developer and 
manager of 'Crescat 
Boulevard ' shopping Mall
1993
(PQ 2)
No.77 Galle Road, 
Colombo. 03
T. 0112152100
K.N.J.Balendra-
Chairman/Managing 
Director, J.G.A.Cooray, 
C.L.P.Gunawardane, 
S.Rajendra, M.R.Svensson, 
J.Durairatnam,  
A.S.De Zoysa, 
A.Nanayakkara
Rs.3,345,118,012
78.56%
British Overseas (Pvt) 
Ltd
Developer of "7th Sense" 
Residential Tower
2011
(PV 80203)
No.186, Vauxhall Street,  
Colombo 02
T. 0112152100
N.W.R.Wijewantha, 
K.C.Subasinghe, 
N.N.Mawilmada, 
S.P.G.N.Rajapakse, 
D.P.Gamlath
 Rs.1,000
61%
Braybrooke 
Residential 
Properties (Pvt) Ltd* 
Investor of Braybrooke 
Residential Towers (Pvt) Ltd
1998
(PV19165)
No.186, Vauxhall Street,  
Colombo 02
T. 0112152100
Y.S.H.R.S.Silva-Chairman, 
S.Rajendra, K.C.Subasinghe, 
N.N.Mawilmada, 
D.P.Gamlath, Y.S.H.I.K.Silva, 
Y.S.H.H.K Silva, 
C.P.Palansuriya
Rs.1,403,970,000
50%
Braybrooke 
Residential Towers 
(Pvt) Ltd*
Developer of 'TRI-ZEN' 
Residential Towers
2017
(PV128387)
No.186, Vauxhall Street,  
Colombo 02
T. 0112152100
K.N.J.Balendra, 
Y.S.H.R.S.Silva-Chairman, 
J.G.A.Cooray, S.Rajendra, 
N.N.Mawilmada, 
Y.S.H.I.K.Silva, A.D.B.Talwatte, 
C.P.Palansuriya
Rs.3,636,900,000
50%
Glennie Properties 
(Pvt) Ltd*
Property Development
2012
(PV 84278)
No.186, Vauxhall Street,  
Colombo 02
T. 0112152100
K.C.Subasinghe, 
N.N.Mawilmada, 
D.P.Gamlath, 
N.W.R.Wijewantha
Rs.163,861,400
100%
J K Land (Pvt) Ltd*
Investment Company for 
Property Sector
2012
(PV 84272)
No.186, Vauxhall Street,  
Colombo 02
T. 0112152100
N.W.R.Wijewantha, 
K.C.Subasinghe, 
N.N.Mawilmada
Rs.24,964,638,930
100%
J K Thudella 
Properties (Pvt) Ltd*
Owner of Real Estates
2018
(PV 129825)
No.186, Vauxhall Street,  
Colombo 02
T. 0112152100
N.W.R.Wijewantha, 
N.N.Mawilmada,
Rs.453,467,620
100%
John Keells 
Properties Ja-Ela 
(Pvt) Ltd 
Developer & Manager of ' 
K-Zone Ja-Ela' Shopping Mall
2010
(PV 76068)
No.186, Vauxhall Street,  
Colombo 02
T. 0112152100
N.W.R.Wijewantha, 
K.C.Subasinghe, 
N.N.Mawilmada
Rs.954,360,000
100%
John Keells 
Residential 
Properties (Pvt) Ltd
Developer of "On320" 
Residential Towers
2010
(PV 75050)
No.186, Vauxhall Street,  
Colombo 02
T. 0112152100
N.W.R.Wijewantha, 
K.C.Subasinghe, 
N.N.Mawilmada
Rs.925,200,000
100%
Keells Realtors Ltd*
Owner of Real Estates
1977
(PB 90)
No.186, Vauxhall Street,  
Colombo 02
T. 0112152100
N.W.R.Wijewantha, 
K.C.Subasinghe, 
N.N.Mawilmada,
Rs.75,000,000
95.81%
Mackinnons Keells 
Ltd*
Rental of office spaces
1952
(PB 8)
No. 4, Layden Bastian Road, 
Colombo 1
T. 2152100
K.M.Thanthirige, 
N.W.R Wijewantha, 
N.N.Mawilmada
Rs.327,800,000
100%
Rajawella Holdings 
Ltd
Operates an 18 hole, Donald 
Street Designed Golf Course 
in Digana
1991
(PB27)
P O Box 7, Rajawella, Kandy
T. 0112152100
K.N.J.Balendra-Chairman, 
J.G.A.Cooray, S.Rajendra, 
N.N.Mawilmada, 
C.B.Thornton (Alt. 
C.J.Holloway), G.R.Bostock 
Kirk (Alt. E.C.Oxlade), 
S.E.Captain (R.S.Captain)
Rs.784,690,140
49.85%
Vauxhall Land 
Developments (Pvt) 
Ltd*
Owner of Real Estates
2017
(PV125587)
No.186, Vauxhall Street,  
Colombo 02
T. 0112152100
K.N.J.Balendra-
Chairman, J.G.A.Cooray, 
N.N.Mawilmada, 
N.W.R.Wijewantha
Rs.21,716,553,910
100%
Waterfront Properties 
(Pvt) Ltd
Developer of Hotels, 
Apartments, offices & 
Shoping Malls
2011
(PV 82153)
No.186, Vauxhall Street, 
Colombo 02
T. 0112152100
K.N.J.Balendra - Chairman, J 
G.A.Cooray, S Rajendra ,  
N.N.Mawilmada
Rs.7,140,071,956
98.59%
Whittall Boustead 
(Pvt) Ltd - Real Estate 
Division*
Renting of office space
1958
(PV 31)
No.186, Vauxhall Street, 
Colombo 02
T. 0112152100
N.W.R.Wijewantha, 
K.C.Subasinghe, 
N.N.Mawilmada, 
Rs.99,188,800
100%

 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance   l    Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
311
Sector
Company Name
Nature
Incorporated 
Year 
Addresses
Directors
Stated Capital & 
Effective Holding
FINANCIAL SERVICES 
Fairfirst Insurance 
Ltd**
Providers of Non Life 
insurance solutions
2014
(PB 5180)
Access Towers II, 14th Floor, 
No: 278/4, Union Place, 
Colombo 02
T. 0112 428 428
R.Athappan-Chairman, 
C.Ratnaswami, 
A.S.Wijesinha, 
C.D.Wijegunawardene, 
S.Malhotra, J.P.Gomes, 
R.M.Prabhakar 
Rs.3,131,949,000
19.80%
John Keells Stock 
Brokers (Pvt) Ltd
Share broking services
1979
(PV 89)
No. 186, Vauxhall Street,  
Colombo 02
T. +94(0)11230 6250, 
+94(0)11234 2066 -7
S.Rajendra, D.P.Gamlath, 
R.S.Cader
 Rs.57,750,000
90.04%
Nations Trust Bank 
PLC**
Commercial banking and 
leasing operations
1999
(PQ 118)
No. 242, Union Place, 
Colombo 2
T.114313131
J.G.A.Cooray-Chairman,
R.S.Cader, J.C.A.D'Souza, 
R.D.Rajapaksa, N.I.R.De 
Mel, S.Maheshwari, 
S.L.Sebastian, 
C.H.A.W.Wickramasuriya, 
A.R.Fernando, P.Talwatte, 
R.Shanmuganathan, 
C.K.Hettiarachchi
Rs.9,408,135,000
32.57%
Union Assurance PLC Providers of Life insurance 
solutions
1987
(PQ 12)
No.20, St. Michaels' Road,  
Colombo 03
T. #1330
K.N.J.Balendra -Chairman, 
S.Rajendra, D.P.Gamlath, 
D.H.Fernando, 
S.A.Appleyard, W.M De 
Fonseka Arsakularatne
Rs.1,000,000,000
90%
OTHERS
IT 
Services
John Keells 
Information 
Technology (Pvt) Ltd 
Software services
1998
(PV 652)
No. 148, Vauxhall Street,  
Colombo 02.
T. 2300770-77
J.G.A.Cooray -Chairman, 
K.D.Weerasinghe, 
R.Shanmuganathan
Rs.96,500,000
100%
IT Enabled
Services
InfoMate (Pvt) Ltd 
IT enabled services
2005
(PV 921)
No.4, Leyden Bastian Road, 
Colombo 1 
T. (94) 112149700
K.D.Weerasinghe, 
R.Shanmuganathan
Rs.20,000,000
100%
John Keells BPO 
Holdings (Pvt) Ltd*
Holding company of BPO 
group companies
2006
(C 60882)
IFS Court, 28, Cybercity, 
Ebene, Mauritius
T. (230) 467 3000
Z.H.Niamut, K.Peerbocus, 
K.D.Weerasinghe, 
K.C.Subasinghe
Rs.1,988,300,000
100%
John Keells BPO 
International (Pvt) 
Ltd*
Investment holding 
company
2007
(C 070137)
IFS Court, 28, Cybercity, 
Ebene, Mauritius
T. (230) 467 3000
Z.H.Niamut, K.Peerbocus, 
K.D.Weerasinghe, 
K.C.Subasinghe
Rs.1,616,700,008
100%
John Keells BPO 
Solutions Lanka (Pvt) 
Ltd*
BPO operations in Sri Lanka
2006
(PV 3458)
No.4, Leyden Bastian Road, 
Colombo 01 
T. (94) 2300770-77
K.D.Weerasinghe, 
K.C.Subasinghe, 
R.Shanmuganathan
Rs.335,797,260
100%
Plantation Services
John Keells PLC
Produce Broking and Real 
Estate Ownership
1960
(PQ 11)
No 186, Vauxhall Street,  
Colombo 02
T. 2306000
K.N.J.Balendra-
Chairman, J.G.A.Cooray, 
K.D.Weerasinghe, 
A.K.Gunawardhana, 
C.N.Wijewardene, 
B.A.I.Rajakarier, A.Z.Hashim
Rs.152,000,000
86.90%
John Keells (Teas) Ltd Manager of seven bought 
leaf tea factories
1979
(PV 522)
No.117,Chittampalam A 
Gardiner Mawatha,  
Colombo 02 T. 2306518
K.D.Weerasinghe, 
K.C.Subasinghe, A.Z Hashim
 Rs.120,000
100%
John Keells 
Warehousing (Pvt) 
Ltd
Warehousing of Tea and 
Rubber
2001
(PV 638)
No.93,1st Avenue, 
Muturajawela, Hendala, 
Wattala
T. 4819560
K.D.Weerasinghe, 
K.C.Subasinghe, A.Z.Hashim
 Rs.120,000,000
86.90%
Tea Smallholder 
Factories PLC
Owner and operator of 
Bought Leaf factories
1991
(PQ 32)
No.4, Leyden Bastian Road, 
Colombo 1
T. 2149994 / 2335880
K.N.J.Balendra–Chairman, 
J.G.A.Cooray, E.H.Wijenaike, 
A.S.Jayatilleke, 
S.K.L.Obeyesekere, 
A.K.Gunaratne, 
A.Goonetilleke, A.Z.Hashim
Rs.150,000,000
37.62%

312 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Sector
Company Name
Nature
Incorporated 
Year 
Addresses
Directors
Stated Capital & 
Effective Holding
OTHERS
Centre & Others
Facets (Pvt) Ltd*
Owner of real estate
1974
(PV1048)
No.117,Sir Chittampalam A 
Gardiner Mawatha,
Colombo 02 T. 2306000
K.M.Thanthirige, 
D.P.Gamlath
Rs.150,000
100%
J K Packaging (Pvt) 
Ltd*
Printing and packaging 
services provider for the 
export market
1979
(PV 1265)
No. 4, Leyden Bastian Road, 
Colombo 1
T. 2475308
K.C.Subasinghe, 
K.D.Weerasinghe, 
D.P.Gamlath
Rs.14,500,000
100%
John Keells Holdings 
PLC 
Group holding company & 
function based services
1979
(PQ 14)
No.117, Sir Chittampalam A 
Gardiner Mawatha, Colombo 
02
T. 2306000
K.N.J.Balendra-
Chairman, J.G.A.Cooray-
Deputy Chairman, 
M.A.Omar, D.A.Cabraal, 
A.N.Fonseka, M.P Perera, 
S.S.H.Wijayasuriya
Rs.73,187,860,511
John Keells 
International (Pvt) 
Ltd*
Regional holding company 
providing administrative & 
function based services
2006
(PV 46)
No.117, Chittampalam A 
Gardiner Mawatha, Colombo 
02
T. 2306000 /2421101-9
D.P.Gamlath, K,M.
Thanthirige, N.W.Tambiah
Rs.1,991,600,000
100%
John Keells 
Singapore (Pte) Ltd*
International trading services 1992
(199200499C)
No.16 Collyer Quay, Level 
21, Office Suit No.21-38, 
Singapore 049318
T. 65 63296409/ 65 
68189150/ 65 96346593
J.G.A.Cooray-Chairman, 
K.M .Thanthirige, 
K.C.Subasinghe, 
D.P.Gamlath, 
R.Ponnampalam
Rs.9,638,000
80%
Keells Consultants 
(Pvt) Ltd
Company secretarial services 
to the group
1974
(PB 3)
No.117, Chittampalam A 
Gardiner Mawatha, Colombo 
02
T. 2421101-9
K.M.Thanthirige, 
N.W.Tambiah, 
I.V.Gunasekera, 
C.Subasinghe
Rs.160,000
100%
Mortlake (Pvt) Ltd*
Investment company
1961
(PV 756)
No. 4, Leyden Bastian Road, 
Colombo 1
T. 2475308
K.M.Thanthirige, 
K.C.Subasinghe
Rs.. 5,500
100%
* The company is a non-operational company/ investment company/ holding company or owner of real estate. 
** The company has not been considered for sustainability reporting as the Group does not exercise management control over the entity.
Group Directory

 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance   l    Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
313
GRI - Disclosure 207-4
COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING
Description
Rs.000
Reference
Page No
Sri Lanka
India Mauritius
Republic
of
Maldives
Singapore
Total
a) All tax jurisictions included in 
Consolidated Financial Statements
Note 21.10
252
b)
i. 
Names of the resident entities
Group Directory
306-312
ii.  Primary activities of the organization
Group Directory
306-312
iii.  Number of employees
 14,017 
 - 
 - 
 683 
 - 
 14,700 
iv.  Revenues from third-party sales
 217,002,011 
 - 
 -  10,727,357 
 -  218,074,746 
v.  Revenues from intra-group 
transactions with other tax jurisdictions
vi.  Profit/loss before tax
 27,078,898 
 (1,590)
 11,081 
 232,580 
 3,523 
 27,324,493 
vii. Tangible assets other than cash and 
cash equivalents
 368,657,566 
 - 
 -  56,923,796 
 232  425,581,593 
viii. Corporate income tax paid on a cash 
basis
Not Applicable
ix.  Corporate income tax accrued on 
profit/loss
 (3,226,847)
 - 
 (2,585)
 (23,093)
 (197)
 (3,252,722)
x.  Reasons for the difference between 
corporate income tax accrued on 
profit/loss and the tax due if the 
statutory tax rate is applied to profit/
loss before tax
Note 21.5
250
c)  The time period covered by the 
information reported in Disclosure  
207-4.
Year ended 31st 
March 2022
d) Capital expenditure incurred during 
the year
 6,421,157 
 -   
 28 
 205,431 
 160 
 6,626,776 
 
 
e) Community contribution
 157,043 
 -   
 -   
 1,790 
 -  
158,833

314 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
GRI Content Index
GRI Standard
Disclosure
Page number(s) and/ or URL(s)
Omission
Part Omitted
Reason
Explanation
GRI 101: Foundation 2016
GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016
Organizational Profile
102-1 Name of the organisation
5
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and 
services
5, 62
102-3 Location of headquarters
5
102-4 Location of operations
5
102-5 Ownership and legal form
5
102-6 Markets served
5
102-7 Scale of the organisation
5, 51, 56
102-8 Information on employees and 
other workers
56 - 61
102-9 Supply chain
11 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf, 78, 87-88, 98-99, 112, 120, 128, 135 
102-10 Significant changes to the 
organisation and its supply chain
19 - 34
102-11 Precautionary Principle or 
approach
3 of Risks, Opportunities and Internal Controls at https://keells.com/ 
resource/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC-AR-2021_22-Risk.pdf
102-12 External initiatives
3, 175, 192
102-13 Membership of associations
https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC-
AR-2021_22-Profiles.pdf
Strategy
102-14 Statement from senior decision-
maker
 8 -18
Ethics and integrity
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and 
norms of behaviour
175
Governance
102-18 Governance structure
177
Stakeholder engagement
102-40 List of stakeholder groups
4-5 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality at 
https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC%20 
AR%202021_22- Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
102-41 Collective bargaining 
agreements
61
102-42 Identifying and selecting 
stakeholders
4 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality 
at https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-
PLC%20 AR%202021_22- Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
102-43 Approach to stakeholder 
engagement
4-5 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & 
Materiality at https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-
Holdings-PLC%20 AR%202021_22- Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised
5-6 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & 
Materiality at https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-
Holdings-PLC%20 AR%202021_22- Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf

 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance   l    Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
315
GRI Standard
Disclosure
Page number(s) and/ or URL(s)
Omission
Part Omitted
Reason
Explanation
Reporting practice
102-45 Entities included in the 
consolidated financial statements
306 - 312
102-46 Defining report content and 
topic Boundaries
4-5 , 6-7 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & 
Materiality at https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-
Holdings-PLC%20 AR%202021_22- Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
102-47 List of material topics
6-7 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & 
Materiality at https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-
Holdings-PLC%20 AR%202021_22- Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
102-48 Restatements of information
3-4 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & 
Materiality at https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-
Holdings-PLC%20 AR%202021_22- Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
102-49 Changes in reporting
3-4 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & 
Materiality at https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-
Holdings-PLC%20 AR%202021_22- Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
102-50 Reporting period
3
102-51 Date of most recent report
3 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality 
at https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-
PLC%20 AR%202021_22- Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
102-52 Reporting cycle
3 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality 
at https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-
PLC%20 AR%202021_22- Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
102-53 Contact point for questions 
regarding the report
IBC
102-54 Claims of reporting in 
accordance with the GRI Standards
3
102-55 GRI content index
303 - 310
102-56 External assurance
293 - 295
Material Topics
GRI 200: Economic Standard Series
Economic Performance 
GRI 103 
Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundary
6-7 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality at 
https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC%20 
AR%202021_22- Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
103-2 The management approach and 
its components
4 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
103-3 Evaluation of the management 
approach
4 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
GRI 201: Economic 
Performance 2016
201-1 Direct economic value 
generated and distributed
296 - 297
201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations 
and other retirement plans
61
Indirect Economic Impacts 
GRI 103 
Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundary
6-7 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality at 
https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC%20 
AR%202021_22- Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
103-2 The management approach and 
its components
4 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
103-3 Evaluation of the management 
approach
4 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf

316 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
GRI Content Index
GRI Standard
Disclosure
Page number(s) and/ or URL(s)
Omission
Part Omitted
Reason
Explanation
GRI 201: 
Economic 
Performance 
2016
201-1 Direct economic value 
generated and distributed
296 - 297
201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations 
and other retirement plans
61
Indirect Economic Impacts 
GRI 103 
Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundary
6-7 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality at 
https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC%20 
AR%202021_22- Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
103-2 The management approach and 
its components
4 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
103-3 Evaluation of the management 
approach
4 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
GRI 203: Indirect 
Economic 
Impacts 2016
203-1 Infrastructure investments and 
services supported
62
Procurement Practices
GRI 103 
Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundary
6-7 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality at 
https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC%20 
AR%202021_22- Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
103-2 The management approach and 
its components
4 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
103-3 Evaluation of the management 
approach
4 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
GRI 204: 
Procurement 
Practices 2016
204-1  Proportion of spending on local 
suppliers
62
Tax
GRI 103 
Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundary
6-7 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & 
Materiality at https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-
Holdings-PLC%20 AR%202021_22- Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
103-2 The management approach and 
its components
4 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
103-3 Evaluation of the management 
approach
4 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
GRI 207: Tax 2019
207-1 Approach to tax
24-25 of https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-
KeellsHoldings-PLC-AR-2021_22-Corporate-Governance.pdf
207-2 Tax governance, control, and risk 
management
24-25 of https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-
KeellsHoldings-PLC-AR-2021_22-Corporate-Governance.pdf
207-3 Stakeholder engagement and 
management of concerns related to 
tax
24-25 of https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-
KeellsHoldings-PLC-AR-2021_22-Corporate-Governance.pdf
207-4 Country-by-country reporting
313

 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance   l    Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
317
GRI Standard
Disclosure
Page number(s) and/ or URL(s)
Omission
Part Omitted
Reason
Explanation
GRI 300: Environment Standard Series
Energy 
GRI 103 
Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundary
6-7 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality at 
https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC%20 
AR%202021_22- Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
103-2 The management approach and 
its components
5 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
103-3 Evaluation of the management 
approach
6 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
GRI 302: Energy 
2016
302-1 Energy consumption within the 
organisation
51 - 52
302-4 Reduction of energy 
consumption
51 - 52
Water and Effluents 
GRI 103 
Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundary
6-7 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality at 
https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC%20 
AR%202021_22- Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
103-2 The management approach and 
its components
5 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
103-3 Evaluation of the management 
approach
6 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
GRI 303: Water 
and Effluents 
2018
303-1 Interactions with water as a 
shared resource
5-6 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
303-2 Management of water 
discharge-related impacts
5-6 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
303-3 Water withdrawal 
52 - 53
303-4 Water discharge
53
 Biodiversity 
GRI 103 
Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundary
6-7 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality at 
https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC%20 
AR%202021_22- Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
103-2 The management approach and 
its components
5 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
103-3 Evaluation of the management 
approach
6 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
GRI 304: 
Biodiversity 2016
304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, 
managed in, or adjacent to,  
protected areas and areas of high 
biodiversity value outside protected 
areas
109 - 110
Emissions 
GRI 103 
Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundary
6-7 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality at 
https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC%20 
AR%202021_22- Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
103-2 The management approach and 
its components
5 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
103-3 Evaluation of the management 
approach
6 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf

318 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
GRI Content Index
GRI Standard
Disclosure
Page number(s) and/ or URL(s)
Omission
Part Omitted
Reason
Explanation
GRI 305: 
Emissions 2016
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions
51
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG 
emissions
51
Effluents and Waste 
GRI 103 
Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundary
6-7 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality at 
https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC%20 
AR%202021_22- Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
103-2 The management approach and 
its components
5 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
103-3 Evaluation of the management 
approach
6 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
GRI 306: Effluents 
and Waste 2016
306-3 Significant spills
77
Waste 
GRI 103 
Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundary
6-7 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & 
Materiality at https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-
Holdings-PLC%20 AR%202021_22- Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
103-2 The management approach and 
its components
5 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
103-3 Evaluation of the management 
approach
6 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
GRI 306: 
Waste 2020
306-1 Waste generation and 
significant waste-related impacts
6 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
306-2 Management of significant 
waste-related impacts
6 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
306-3 Waste generated
54 - 55
Environmental Compliance
GRI 103 
Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundary
6-7 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality at 
https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC%20 
AR%202021_22- Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
103-2 The management approach and 
its components
5 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
103-3 Evaluation of the management 
approach
6 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
GRI 307: 
Environmental 
compliance 2016
307-1 Non-compliance with 
environmental laws and regulations
51
Supplier Environmental Assessment 
GRI 103 
Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundary
6-7 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & 
Materiality at https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-
Holdings-PLC%20 AR%202021_22- Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
103-2 The management approach and 
its components
5 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
103-3 Evaluation of the management 
approach
6 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
GRI 308: Supplier 
Environmental 
Assessment 2016
308-1 New suppliers that were 
screened using environmental criteria
62

 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance   l    Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
319
GRI Standard
Disclosure
Page number(s) and/ or URL(s)
Omission
Part Omitted
Reason
Explanation
GRI 400: Social Standard Series
 Employment 
GRI 103 
Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundary
6-7 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality at 
https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC%20 
AR%202021_22- Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
103-2 The management approach and 
its components
7-8 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
103-3 Evaluation of the management 
approach
10 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
GRI 401: 
Employment 
2016
401-1 New employee hires and 
employee turnover
52, 59
Occupational Health and Safety
GRI 103 
Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundary
6-7 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality at 
https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC%20 
AR%202021_22- Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
103-2 The management approach and 
its components
7-8 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
103-3 Evaluation of the management 
approach
10 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
GRI 403: 
Occupational 
Health and Safety 
2018
403-1 Occupational health and safety 
management system
8-9 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
403-2 Hazard identification, risk 
assessment, and incident investigation
8-9 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
403-3 Occupational health services
8-9 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
403-4 Worker participation, 
consultation, and communication on 
occupational health and safety
8-9 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
403-5 Worker training on occupational 
health and safety
8-9 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
403-6 Promotion of worker health
8-9 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
403-7 Prevention and mitigation 
of occupational health and safety 
impacts directly linked by business 
relationships
8-9 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
403-9 Work-related injuries
61

320 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
GRI Content Index
GRI Standard
Disclosure
Page number(s) and/ or URL(s)
Omission
Part Omitted
Reason
Explanation
Training and Education 
GRI 103 
Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundary
6-7 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality at 
https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC%20 
AR%202021_22- Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
103-2 The management approach and 
its components
7-8 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
103-3 Evaluation of the management 
approach
10 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
GRI 404: Training 
and Education 
2016
404-1 Average hours of training per 
year per employee
60
"404-3 Percentage of employees 
receiving regular performance and  
career development reviews"
56
Diversity and equal opportunity 
GRI 103 
Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundary
6-7 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality at 
https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC%20 
AR%202021_22- Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
103-2 The management approach and 
its components
7-8 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
103-3 Evaluation of the management 
approach
10 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
GRI 405: Diversity 
and equal 
opportunity 2016
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies 
and employees
57 - 58
 Freedom of association and collective bargaining 
GRI 103 
Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundary
6-7 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality at 
https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC%20 
AR%202021_22- Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
103-2 The management approach and 
its components
7-8 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
103-3 Evaluation of the management 
approach
10 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
GRI 407: Freedom 
of association 
and collective 
bargaining 2016
407-1 Operations and suppliers 
in which the right to freedom of 
association  
and collective bargaining may be at 
risk
57
Child Labour 
GRI 103 
Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundary
6-7 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality at 
https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC%20 
AR%202021_22- Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
103-2 The management approach and 
its components
7-10 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
103-3 Evaluation of the management 
approach
10 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
GRI 408: Child 
Labour 2016
408-1 Operations and suppliers at 
significant risk for incidents of child 
labour
56

321
 Group Highlights l Management Discussion and Analysis l Governance l Financial Statements  Supplementary Information
GRI Standard
Disclosure
Page number(s) and/ or URL(s)
Omission
Part Omitted
Reason
Explanation
 Forced or Compulsory Labor
GRI 103 
Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundary
6-7 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & 
Materiality at https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-
Holdings-PLC%20 AR%202021_22- Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
103-2 The management approach and 
its components
7-10 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
103-3 Evaluation of the management 
approach
10 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
GRI 409: Forced 
or Compulsory 
Labor
409-1 Operations and suppliers at 
significant risk for incidents of forced 
or compulsory labor
56
Local Communities 
GRI 103 
Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundary
6-7 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality at 
https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC%20 
AR%202021_22- Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
103-2 The management approach and 
its components
12-13 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
103-3 Evaluation of the management 
approach
13 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
GRI 413: Local 
communities 
2016
"413-1 Operations with local community 
engagement, 
impact 
assessments,  
and development programs"
62 - 66
 Supplier social assessment 
GRI 103 
Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundary
6-7 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality at 
https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC%20 
AR%202021_22- Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
103-2 The management approach and 
its components
11 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
103-3 Evaluation of the management 
approach
11 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
GRI 414: Supplier 
social assessment 
2016
414-1 New suppliers that were 
screened using social criteria
62
Customer Health and Safety
GRI 103 
Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundary
6-7 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality at 
https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC%20 
AR%202021_22- Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
103-2 The management approach and 
its components
14 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
103-3 Evaluation of the management 
approach
14 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
GRI 416: 
Customer Health 
and Safety 2016
416-1 Assessment of the health and 
safety impacts of product and service 
categories
14 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf

322 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
GRI Content Index
GRI Standard
Disclosure
Page number(s) and/ or URL(s)
Omission
Part Omitted
Reason
Explanation
Marketing and Labelling 
GRI 103 
Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundary
6-7 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality at 
https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC%20 
AR%202021_22- Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
103-2 The management approach and 
its components
14 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
103-3 Evaluation of the management 
approach
14 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
GRI 417: 
Marketing and 
Labelling 2016
417-1 Requirements for product and 
service information and labelling
62
417-3 Incidents of non-
compliance concerning marketing 
communications
62
Socioeconomic Compliance
GRI 103 
Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundary
6-7 of Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality at 
https://keells.com/resource/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC%20 
AR%202021_22- Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
103-2 The management approach and 
its components
14 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
103-3 Evaluation of the management 
approach
14 of https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_ 
Disclosures_2021_22.pdf
GRI 419: 
Socioeconomic 
Compliance 2016
419-1 Non-compliance with laws and 
regulations in the social and economic 
area
62

 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance   l    Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
323
Notice of Meeting - Annual General Meeting
Notice is hereby given that the Forty Third Annual General Meeting (AGM) of John Keells Holdings PLC will be held as a virtual meeting on 24 June 2022 
at 10:00 a.m.  
The business to be brought before the Meeting will be to: 
1.  read the Notice convening the Meeting. 
2.  receive and consider the Annual Report and Financial Statements for the Financial Year ended 31 March 2022 with the Report of the Auditors 
thereon. 
3.  re-elect as Director, Dr. S S H Wijayasuriya who retires in terms of Article 84 of the Articles of Association of the Company. A brief profile of Dr. S S H 
Wijayasuriya is contained in the Corporate Governance Commentary of the Annual Report. 
4.  re-elect as Director, Mr. J G A Cooray, who retires in terms of Article 84 of the Articles of Association of the Company. A brief profile of Mr. J G A Cooray 
is contained in the Corporate Governance Commentary of the Annual Report. 
5.  re-appoint the Auditors and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration. 
6.  consider any other business of which due notice has been given in terms of the relevant laws and regulations. 
The Annual Report of John Keells Holdings PLC for 2021/22, is available on the:  
(1)  Corporate Website – https://keells.com/annual-reports; and 
(2)  The Colombo Stock Exchange - https://www.cse.lk/pages/company-profile/company-profile.component.html?symbol=JKH.N0000. 
Members may also access the Annual Report and Financial Statements on their mobile phones by scanning the following QR code. 
Should Members wish to obtain a hard copy of the Annual Report, they may send a request to the Company by filling the request form attached 
to the Form of Proxy. A printed copy of the Annual Report will be forwarded by the Company within eight (8) market days, subject to the prevailing 
circumstances at the time, from the date of receipt of the request.
By Order of the Board
John Keells Holdings PLC
Keells Consultants (Private) Limited
Secretaries
23 May 2022
Notes: 
i. 
A Member unable to attend is entitled to appoint a Proxy to attend and vote in his/her place.
ii. 
A Proxy need not be a Member of the Company.
iii. A Member wishing to vote by Proxy at the Meeting may use the Form of Proxy enclosed herein.
iv. Members are encouraged to vote by Proxy through the appointment of a member of the Board of Directors to vote on their behalf and to include 
their voting preferences on the resolutions to be taken up at the Meeting in the Form of Proxy 
v. 
In order to be valid, the completed Form of Proxy must be lodged at the Registered Office of the Company not less than 48 hours before the Meeting.
vi. A vote can be taken on a show of hands or by a poll. If a poll is demanded, each share is entitled to one vote. Votes can be cast in person, by proxy 
or corporate representatives. In the event an individual Member and his/her Proxy holder are both present at the Meeting, only the Member’s vote is 
counted. If the Proxy holder’s appointor has indicated the manner of voting, only the appointor’s indication of the manner to vote will be used.

324 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Notes

 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance   l    Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
325
Form of Proxy - Annual General Meeting
I/We  ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... of
....................................................................................................................................................................................................... being a member/s of John Keells Holdings PLC hereby appoint 
.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. of 
............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... or failing him/her
MR. KRISHAN NIRAJ JAYASEKARA BALENDRA  
 
 
or failing him
MR. JOSEPH GIHAN ADISHA COORAY 
 
 
or failing him
MR. MOHAMED ASHROFF OMAR 
 
 
or failing him
MR. DAMIEN AMAL CABRAAL 
 
 
or failing him
MR. ANTHONY NIHAL FONSEKA  
 
 
or failing him
MS. MARIE PREMILA PERERA 
 
 
or failing her
DR. SHRIDHIR SARIPUTTA HANSA WIJAYASURIYA
as my/our proxy to represent me/us and vote on my/our behalf at the Forty Third Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on 24 June 2022 
at 10:00a.m. and at any adjournment thereof, and at every poll which may be taken in consequence thereof.
I/We, the undersigned, hereby direct my/our proxy to vote for me/us and on my/our behalf on the specified Resolution as indicated by the letter “X” in 
the appropriate cage:
FOR
AGAINST
To re-elect as a Director, Dr. S S H Wijayasuriya, who retires in terms of Article 84 of the Articles of Association of the Company.
To re-elect as a Director, Mr. J G A Cooray, who retires in terms of Article 84 of the Articles of Association of the Company.
To re-appoint the Auditors and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
Signed on this ………………… day of …………………… Two Thousand and Twenty Two.
…………………………….
Signature/s of Shareholder/s
NOTE: 
INSTRUCTIONS AS TO COMPLETION OF PROXY FORM ARE NOTED ON THE REVERSE.

326 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
INSTRUCTIONS AS TO COMPLETION OF PROXY
1. Please perfect the Form of Proxy by filling in legibly your full name and address, signing 
in the space provided and filling in the date of signature.
2.  The completed Form of Proxy should be deposited at the Registered Office of the Company 
at No. 117, Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha, Colombo 2, or forwarded by fax to  
+94 11 243 9037, or e-mailed to keellsconsultants@keells.com no later than 48 hours 
before the time appointed for the convening of the Meeting.
3.  If the Form of Proxy is signed by an Attorney, the relevant Power of Attorney should 
accompany the completed Form of Proxy for registration, if such Power of Attorney has 
not already been registered with the Company.
4.  If the appointor is a company or corporation, the Form of Proxy should be executed 
under its Common Seal or by a duly authorised officer of the company or corporation in 
accordance with its Articles of Association or Constitution.
5.  If this Form of Proxy is returned without any indication of how the person appointed as 
Proxy shall vote, then the Proxy shall exercise his/her discretion as to how he/she votes 
or, whether or not he/she abstains from voting.
Please fill in the following details: 
Name 
: .............................................................................................................................................................................
Address 
: .............................................................................................................................................................................
 
 ..............................................................................................................................................................................
 
 ..............................................................................................................................................................................
Jointly with 
: .............................................................................................................................................................................
Share Folio No. : ............................................................................................................................................................................
NIC No. 
: .............................................................................................................................................................................

 Group Highlights   l    Management Discussion and Analysis   l    Governance   l    Financial Statements       Supplementary Information
327
Corporate Information
Name of Company
John Keells Holdings PLC
Legal Form
Public Limited Liability Company
Incorporated in Sri Lanka in 1979
Ordinary Shares listed on the Colombo Stock Exchange
GDRs listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange
Company Registration No.
PQ 14
Directors
K N J Balendra - Chairman-CEO
J G A Cooray - Deputy Chairman/Group Finance Director
D A Cabraal
A N Fonseka
M A Omar
M P Perera
S S H Wijayasuriya 
Senior Independent Director
A N Fonseka 
Audit Committee
A N Fonseka - Chairman
D A Cabraal
M P Perera
Human Resources and Compensation Committee
D A Cabraal - Chairman
M A Omar
S S H Wijayasuriya
Nominations Committee
M A Omar - Chairman
K N J Balendra
M P Perera
S S H Wijayasuriya
Related Party Transaction Review Committee
M P Perera - Chairperson 
D A Cabraal 
A N Fonseka
Project Risk Assessment Committee 
S S H Wijayasuriya - Chairman 
K N J Balendra 
J G A Cooray  
M P Perera 
 
Registered Office of the Company
117 Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha 
Colombo 2, Sri Lanka 
Telephone : +94 11 230 6000 
Internet : www.keells.com 
Email : jkh@keells.com
Secretaries
Keells Consultants (Private) Limited 
117 Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha, 
Colombo 2, Sri Lanka 
Telephone : +94 11 230 6245 
Facsimile : +94 11 243 9037 
Email : keellsconsultants@keells.com
Investor Relations
John Keells Holdings PLC 
117 Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha 
Colombo 2, Sri Lanka 
Telephone : +94 11 230 6170 
Facsimile : +94 11 230 6160 
Email : investor.relations@keells.com
Sustainability, Enterprise Risk Management and  
Group Initiatives
186 Vauxhall Street 
Colombo 2, Sri Lanka 
Telephone : +94 11 230 6182 
Facsimile : +94 11 230 6249 
Email : sustainability@keells.com
Contact for Media
Corporate Communications Division 
John Keells Holdings PLC 
117 Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha 
Colombo 2, Sri Lanka 
Telephone : +94 11 230 6191 
Email : jkh@keells.com
Auditors 
Ernst & Young 
Chartered Accountants 
P.O. Box 101 
Colombo, Sri Lanka 
 
Bankers for the Company 
Bank of Ceylon 
Citibank N.A. 
Commercial Bank of Ceylon 
Deutsche Bank A.G. 
DFCC Bank 
Hatton National Bank 
Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation 
Nations Trust Bank 
People’s Bank 
Sampath Bank 
Seylan Bank 
Standard Chartered Bank 
 
Depository for GDRs 
Citibank N.A. New York 

328 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2021/22
Notes

Designed & produced by
Digital Plates & Printing by Softwave Printing and Publishing (Pvt) Ltd

www.keells.com
