John Keells Holdings PLC
Annual Report 2022/23
RE-R TING


John Keells Holdings PLC 
The John Keells Group has been in business for 153 years, some of which have been periods of social and 
economic turmoil both here and overseas. Yet last year was possibly the toughest one that Sri Lankans 
have ever endured, involving unprecedented hardship and adversity. Today, while many challenges 
remain, the country has, possibly for the first time ever, put in place the fundamental framework of 
economic policies that will enable us to emerge from this crisis stronger than we were. We trust that if 
we have the resolve to stay the course, travelling the path of consolidation while restructuring for better 
stewardship and governance, Sri Lanka can move to a stronger, more sustainable model of growth and 
development, offering a brighter future for the country.
Throughout the chaos of the previous year, our company maintained its belief that challenges can also be 
catalysts for positive transformation. Together with our partners, we launched the biggest port investment 
in the country, while the steady progress of work on the Cinnamon Life project—notwithstanding the 
obstacles of last year—moved the Group closer towards completion of this transformational investment. 
Soon to launch, this will be the first such integrated resort in Sri Lanka and the largest private investment 
in the country to date, evidencing our commitment to nation-development, which remains strong. We 
continue to be guided by our vision to transform Sri Lanka through such landmark investments and today, 
that vision is fast becoming a reality, for we are excited to launch operations by the end of 2024.
Even major setbacks offer opportunities to grow as well as lessons to be learned. That is why, through all 
of the challenges we have encountered, we maintained a strong focus on the ESG framework that lies at 
the heart of all that we do, as we strive to operate a truly sustainable business that enriches people and 
communities while minimising our impact on the world we live in.
Today, we emerge from those difficult years content that we have been able to navigate the turbulence 
and still deliver commendable results while looking forward to the prospects for revival and the 
opportunities that lay ahead. As the economy rebounds, we too plan to build on the solid platform we 
have built, strong in the belief that both country and company are now ready for a significant upward  
‘Re-rating,’ as we move confidently into a promising future.
RE-R TING

2 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
REPORTING UNIVERSE
In furtherance of the Group’s comprehensive and integrated ESG reporting framework, the 2022/23 JKH Annual Report continues to be supplemented 
by various online publications and additional information, as outlined below.
FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL REPORTING
2022/23 JKH Annual Report, which includes: 
Annual
Contains information 
relating to the Group’s 
financial performance and 
position, both annually and 
quarterly. The information 
is also complemented 
through details of key 
operational indicators and 
justification of performance.  
Includes regulatory 
disclosures.
Primarily 
of interest 
to capital 
providers and 
regulators.
•	
Chairperson’s Message
•	
External Environment
•	
Financial and Manufactured 
Capital Review
•	
Industry Group Reviews
•	
Financial Statements and related 
Notes
•	
Outlook
•	
Strategy, Resource Allocation and 
Portfolio Management
Investor Presentations/ Updates: https://keells.com/investor-relations
Quarterly/Annual
Recordings of the investor webinars: https://keells.com/investor-relations
Quarterly/Annual
Social media updates of key highlights through LinkedIn, Facebook and 
Instagram
https://lk.linkedin.com/
company/john-keells-holdings 
https://www.facebook.com/
johnkeells/
https://www.instagram.com/lifeatjkh/?hl=en 
Routine
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL REPORTING
2022/23 JKH Annual Report, which includes: 
Annual
Covers how the Group 
uses its expertise to 
create positive economic, 
environmental and societal 
impacts. Also contains 
discussions on the impact 
that the Group has created.
Primarily of 
interest to 
investors, 
prospective 
and current 
employees, 
regulators, 
NGOs, 
customers and 
society. 
•	
Natural Capital Review
•	
Human Capital Review
•	
Social and Relationship Capital Review
•	
Intellectual Capital Review
•	
Sustainability Integration and 
Stakeholder Engagement
Management Approach Disclosures under each form of Capital: 
https://keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_Disclosures_2022_23.pdf
Annual
Sustainability Integration and Stakeholder Integration Review: 
https://www.keells.com/resource/reports/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-
PLC-AR-2022_23-Sustainability-and-Materiality.pdf
Annual
Communication on progress for the UN Global Compact: 
https://www.keells.com/resource/governance/JKH-Communication-on-
Progress-2022-23.pdf
Annual
Details of CSR activities through the CSR website: 
https://www.johnkeellsfoundation.com/
Routine
Details of the Group’s Social Entrepreneurship Project aimed at reducing 
plastic pollution: https://plasticcycle.lk/
Routine
GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT REPORTING
2022/23 JKH Annual Report, which includes: 
Annual
Contain information and 
disclosures relating to 
aspects linked to governance, 
including board matters, 
ethics, key risks, risk 
management, and director 
remuneration. Disclosures 
demonstrate the manner in 
which the Group operates; 
through sound governance 
practices, and the highest 
standards of ethics, 
integrity, transparency and 
accountability.
Also entails the circulars 
to shareholders, notices of 
meeting and forms of proxies.
Primarily 
of interest 
to capital 
providers, 
customers, 
employees, 
regulators, 
suppliers and 
members of 
society.
•	
Corporate Governance 
Commentary
•	
Sustainability Integration, 
Stakeholder Engagement and 
Materiality
•	
Risks, Opportunities and Internal 
Controls
•	
Annual Report of the Board 
•	
Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibility
•	
Independent Auditors’ Report
Routine
Annual
Notice of meetings and related proxies: https://keells.com/investor-relations
Routine
Company’s performance and disclosures for Transparency in Corporate 
Reporting 2022 (published by Transparency International 
Sri Lanka): https://www.tisrilanka.org/trac2022/
Annual
Frequency
Coverage
Stakeholders 
Concerned
Corporate Governance Framework: https://www.keells.com/resource/reports/
governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC-AR-2022_23-Corporate-Governance.pdf
Risk, Opportunities and Internal Controls Review: https://www.keells.com/
resource/reports/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC-AR-2022_23-Risk.pdf

3
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
CONTENTS
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
We present our Integrated Report in five parts to enable 
our stakeholders to make an informed assessment of both 
our ongoing ability to create and sustainably preserve 
value. Various supplementary material are available at 
www.keells.com to provide more in-depth information on 
ESG aspects and the value creation model.
2	
Reporting Universe 
3 	
Contents 
4 	
Introduction to the Report
Governance
Overview of how a continually reviewed and evolving 
governance framework support value creation and 
minimise the erosion of value.  
175 	 Corporate Governance Commentary
198 	 Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement 
and Materiality
202 	 Risks, Opportunities and Internal Controls
Group Highlights
Overview of the Group, our business model and how our 
purpose, vision, strategy and values position us for 
long-term value creation.
Management Discussion and Analysis
Detailed discussion of the Group’s performance, as well as 
each of our businesses, market position, differentiators, 
the value created in the short, medium and long-term for 
our stakeholders through our forms of Capital. Contains 
a discussion of how we managed our risks, our strategic 
response, our strategy and outlook going forward.
7 	
About Us
8 	
Our Business Model
10 	 Chairperson’s Message
23 	 Investor Relations
23	 Group Highlights
30	 Industry Group Highlights
41 	 External Environment
47 	 Industry Group Operational Review
47	 Transportation
52	 Consumer Foods
58	 Retail
63	 Leisure
69	 Property
73	 Financial Services
77	 Other, including Information Technology and 
Plantation Services
81 	 Financial and Manufactured Capital Review
81	 Group Analysis
93	 Industry Group-wise Analysis
103 	Natural Capital Review
114 	Human Capital Review
121 	Social and Relationship Capital Review
132 	Intellectual Capital Review
135 	Outlook
135	 Group Analysis
140	 Industry Group-wise Analysis
157	 Strategy, Resource Allocation and Portfolio Management
165 	Share Information
Financial Statements
Information relating to the Group’s financial position 
and performance, and explanatory notes detailing the 
Company’s performance.
205 	 Annual Report of the Board of Directors
210 	 The Statement of Directors’ Responsibility
211 	 Independent Auditors’ Report
214 	 Income Statement
215 	 Statement of Comprehensive Income
216 	 Statement of Financial Position
217	
Statement of Cash Flows
218 	 Statement of Changes in Equity
220 	 Notes to the Financial Statements
Supplementary Information
Definitions and acronyms, independent assurance of the 
non-financial disclosures, corporate structure and other 
standard company details.
304 	 History of the John Keells Group
305 	 Decade at a Glance
306 	 Economic Value Statement
308 	 Indicative US Dollar Financial Statements
310 	 Group Real Estate Portfolio
312 	 Glossary
313 	 Independent Assurance Statement on Non-Financial 
Reporting
316 	 Group Directory
326 	 Country by Country Reporting Disclosures
327 	 GRI Content Index
339 	 Notice of Meeting
340 	 Corporate Information
343 	 Form of Proxy
1
173
203
303
7
39

4 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
02	 Standards and Principles
INTRODUCTION TO THE REPORT
We are pleased to present our eighth Integrated Report in accordance 
with the International <IR> Framework of the International Integrated 
Reporting Council (IIRC).  
This Report reflects on:
	y
The value creation model of the Group, combining different forms of capitals in the short, 
medium and long-term
	y
Governance, risk management and sustainability frameworks entrenched within the John 
Keells Group
	y
Financial, operational, environmental and social review and results of the Group
In keeping this Report concise as possible and pertinent to the year under review, we have 
ensured that the commentaries in certain sections are limited to a helicopter view of the events 
and progress within the year, whilst the Group’s standard policies, operating guidelines and 
management approaches are available on the corporate website.  
INTEGRATED THINKING AND OUR INTEGRATED REPORTING PROCESS
Related 
sub-processes:
01	Process of 
completing the 
Integrated Report
02	Standards and 
principles
03	Integrated Report 
and Reporting 
Principles
04	Information integrity 
verification and 
quality assurance
Sign-off by the 
Group Executive 
Committee
Board Approval
Parties involved:
Board, Group 
Executive Committee, 
Integrated Reporting 
team
Board, Group Executive 
Committee, Internal 
Audit and External 
Auditors
Board, Group 
Executive 
Committee
Compiling
Validating
Approving
Integrated 
Reporting process:
01	 Process of Completing the Integrated Report
The JKH Annual Report is prepared based on deliberations at a GEC and Board level, meeting 
minutes, decisions and approvals including frameworks as previously approved, as well as internal 
and external reporting information reflecting the Group’s integrated thinking in line with the 
International <IR> Framework. A cross-functional team, led by the Deputy Chairperson/Group 
Finance Director and various industry group/sector representatives and subject matter experts 
across the Group, produce the content contained within this Report, with oversight from the GEC 
and the JKH Board of Directors. The GEC and Directors actively contribute to the content of the 
Report whilst being involved in the various approval processes. The Report is also supported by 
the oversight provided by independent assurance providers. Whilst the cross-functional team, who 
has delegated authority from the Board, ultimately sign-off for publication, the Board provides the 
final approval of the Report. 
Our Integrated Report is the outcome of a group-wide reporting process. The process is governed by the Board, led by the Group Executive 
Committee, and delivered through group-wide collaboration. Our integrated-thinking approach to decision-making, management and 
reporting enables us to create and preserve value in the short, medium and long-term. The Report strives to deliver a balanced and relevant 
report that will bring clarity and detail to the complex task of reporting a year of diverse business operations across multiple sectors.
Reporting 
	y
International <IR> Framework of the 
IIRC
Governance, Risk Management and 
Operations
	y
Laws and regulations of the Companies 
Act No. 7 of 2007 
	y
Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock 
Exchange (CSE) and subsequent 
revisions to date 
	y
Securities and Exchange Commission 
of Sri Lanka (SEC) Act No. 19 of 2021, 
including directives and circulars 
	y
Code of Best Practice on Corporate 
Governance (2013) jointly advocated 
by SEC and the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka) 
	y
Code of Best Practice on Corporate 
Governance (2017) issued by CA 
Sri Lanka, to the extent of business 
exigency and as required by the Group
	y
Code of Best Practices on Related Party 
Transactions (2013) advocated by SEC 
Financial Reporting
	y
Sri Lanka Accounting Standards 
(SLFRS/LKAS) issued by CA Sri Lanka
Sustainability Reporting
	y
This report has been prepared in 
accordance with the GRI Standards: 
Core option of reporting
	y
Aligned to United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals
	y
Operations in conformity with the 
Principles of the United Nations 
Global Compact 
	y
Environmental, Social and 
Governance (ESG) disclosures through 
the <IR> framework and operations in 
conformity with the Principles of the 
United Nations Global Compact 

5
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
03	 Integrated Reporting and Guiding Principles
The Group has strived to deliver a comprehensive, balanced and relevant 
report, while adhering to the recommendations of the IIRC. The seven 
guiding principles in integrated reporting, as depicted, have been given 
due consideration when preparing and presenting this Report. 
Guiding Principles of the 2022/23 JKH Annual Report
04	 Information Verification and Quality Assurance
The Chairperson-CEO, Deputy Chairperson/Group Finance Director, 
Group Executive Committee and relevant management personnel are 
responsible for disclosures made in this Report. The Group makes every 
effort to ensure the credibility, reliability and integrity of the information 
presented in the Report. To this end, external assurance is also sought 
from independent auditors as outlined below. As such, the Board 
ensures the integrity of the integrated report through the integrated 
reporting process, the various approvals and sign-offs by Group 
Executive Committee and the Board of Directors.
The information contained in this Report has been reviewed, as 
applicable by:
	y
The Board of Directors
	y
The Group Executive Committee
	y
Audit Committee of the Company
	y
An independent auditor confirming the accuracy of the annual 
financial statements
	y
An external assurance has been obtained for the non-financial 
statements in this report by an independent auditor confirming the 
accuracy of the report which has been prepared in accordance with 
the GRI standards 2021 
SCOPE AND BOUNDARY
The John Keells Annual Report 2022/23 is a reflection of the Group’s 
integrated approach of management during the period from 1 April 
2022 to 31 March 2023. Material events post this reporting period, up to 
the sign off date by the Board of Directors on 23 May 2023, have been 
included in this Report, ensuring a more relevant and up-to-date Report.
85 legal entities of the John Keells Group create the financial reporting 
boundary of the Annual Report 2022/23, of which 46 companies are 
included in the Sustainability reporting scope. The remaining companies 
have been excluded from reporting as they are either a non-operational 
company/ investment company/ holding company or owner of real 
estate or if the Group does not exercise management control over the 
entity and this has been indicated against each company in the Group 
directory section of this report.
ENGAGEMENT OF SIGNIFICANT STAKEHOLDERS 
The Group values input from its stakeholders and is committed to 
sharing its sustainability ambitions with the various stakeholder groups. 
Maintaining clearly set objectives based on the various goals and targets 
the Group has committed to in the short, medium and the long-term, 
and working towards fulfilling these objectives remain a key priority. 
The Group’s stakeholders have been identified as those who have 
significant influence over or who are significantly affected by the Group’s 
operations. Numerous platforms have been established to facilitate 
continuous dialogue with the Group’s stakeholders and the following 
table summarises the frequencies of engagement with significant 
stakeholders:
Stakeholder
Frequency
Annually
Bi-annually
Quarterly
Ongoing
Monthly
One-off
Customers
Employees
Community
Institutional investors, fund managers, 
analysts, multilateral lenders
Government, Government institutions 
and departments
Legal and regulatory bodies
Business partners, principals, suppliers
Society, media, pressure groups, NGOs, 
environmental groups
Industry peers and competition
A detailed write-up of stakeholder engagement can be found in the sustainability 
integration, stakeholder engagement and materiality section of this report. 
CONTACT WITH STAKEHOLDERS
The preparation of the Report took place in cooperation with all  
relevant stakeholders in order to improve transparency and 
accountability. Feedback is gathered through questionnaires, a 
dedicated mailbox, one-on-one meetings and stakeholder 
engagement fora. 
Email: investor.relations@keells.com
Tel: +94-112306170
DETERMINING MATERIALITY
Materiality analysis is one of the key processes that the Group uses 
to define key triple bottom line issues that are of significance to the 
business and its internal and external stakeholders. Through this process, 
the Group identifies short, medium and long-term goals, processes and 
interventions aimed at addressing Group and stakeholder concerns.  
The Group arrives at this assessment through the results of an external 
stakeholder engagement survey that is conducted by an independent 
third party every three to four years. 
Conciseness
Reliability and completeness
Consistency and comparability
Strategic focus and future orientation
Connectivity of information
Stakeholder relationships
Materiality

6 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
Capital Guides
Reporting Guides
NAVIGATING THIS REPORT
This Annual Report is available on our website: 
https://www.keells.com/resource/reports/annual-reports/ 
John_Keells_Holdings_PLC_AR_2022_23_CSE.pdf
Reference to other pages 
within the Report
Reference to further 
reading online
Details of CSR  
projects available on  
www.johnkeellsfoundation.com/
Financial and Manufactured 
Capital
Human Capital
Social and Relationship 
Capital
Natural Capital
Intellectual Capital
INTRODUCTION TO THE REPORT
As you flip through the pages of this Report, you will find a relevant, 
transparent and noteworthy value proposition entrenched within the 
John Keells Group that strives to achieve the highest form of stakeholder 
satisfaction through sustainable value creation.
Additionally, materiality is also assessed internally in ascertaining the 
topics material to the Group and fine-tuning and streamlining its 
strategy and processes to manage these material issues. The outcomes 
of these studies are prioritised using a materiality matrix, representing 
their level of significance to the Group and its external stakeholders, and 
are then disclosed as per clearly defined topics under the GRI Standards.
Whilst the matrix, as illustrated, indicates the prioritisation of these 
material topics, the Group continues to assess its internal and external 
materiality on a routine basis and disclose the performance of such 
topics. Its reporting scope will be expanded as relevant. 
During the year under review, the Group had not carried out a formal 
third party stakeholder engagement survey to identify the material 
topics for the organisation. Hence, the material topics identified from the 
study carried out in CY2018 was used to arrive at the material topics that 
the Group would be reporting on for 2022/23. The below process was 
followed to further validate the material topics for the reporting period. 
	y
As the Group has zero tolerance for non-compliance to regulatory 
requirements, a check was carried out to determine any material 
topics stemming from new regulatory changes made during the 
reporting period. 
	y
The results of the study were also compared against the Group’s risk 
matrices to identify material topics. 
	y
There are various grievance handling mechanisms in place at a sector 
as well as a Group level. Any critical grievances that were flagged 
at the Group level were also considered in arriving at the material 
topics.  
	y
As best practice, the Group also reviewed external resources to 
understand and identify any topics that may need to be addressed to 
avoid potential negative publicity.
As an outcome of the above exercise, the following topics were deemed 
most material to the organisation during the period under review.  
No.
Material Topic
1
Volatility and vulnerabilities in the macroeconomic 
environment impacting employees, consumers, communities 
and the supply chain
2
Economic performance 
3
Skilled staff attrition due to increased local and global 
competition
4
Data security and customer privacy / information governance 
and security
5
Regulatory compliance
6
Business continuity and energy management - Local and 
global fuel shortages
7
Increasing prices of product and services, and price volatilities 
in the supply chain
8
Employee attraction, retention and skill resilience
9
Changes to taxation and levies
The complete list of material topics can be found in the sustainability 
integration, stakeholder engagement and materiality section of this report.
DISCLAIMER FOR THE PUBLICATION OF FORECAST DATA 
The Report contains information about the plans and strategies of the 
Group for the medium and long-term and represents the management’s 
view. The plans are forward-looking in nature and their feasibility 
depends on a number of economic, political and legal factors which are 
outside the influence of the Group and Company, including the situation 
of key markets, changes in tax, customs and environmental legislation. 
Given this, the actual performance of indicators in future years may 
differ from the forward-looking statements published in this Report. The 
reader is advised to seek expert professional advice in all such respects. 
APPROVAL BY THE BOARD
The Board acknowledges its responsibility of ensuring the integrity of 
this Integrated Report. In the Board’s opinion, this Report addresses all 
the issues that are material to the Group’s ability to create value and 
fairly presents the integrated performance of the John Keells Group. The 
Board is confident that the Report was prepared in accordance with the 
International <IR> Framework. This report was approved by the Board on 
23 May 2023.

7
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
CENTRE FUNCTIONS
	y
Corporate Communications
	y
Corporate Finance and 
Strategy
	y
Data and Advanced Analytics
	y
Group Business Process Review
	y
Group Finance and Group 
Insurance
	y
Group Human Resources
	y
Group IT
	y
Group Tax
	y
Group Treasury
	y
John Keells Foundation
	y
John Keells Research
	y
Legal and Secretarial
	y
New Business Development
	y
Social Entrepreneurship
	y
Sustainability, Enterprise  
Risk Management and Group 
Initiatives
ABOUT US
John Keells Holdings PLC (JKH) is one of the largest listed companies 
on the Colombo Stock Exchange, with business interests primarily in 
Transportation, Consumer Foods, Retail, Leisure, Property and Financial 
Services. Started in the early 1870s as a produce and exchange broking 
business by two Englishmen, Edwin and George John, the Group has 
been known to constantly re-align, re-position and re-invent itself in 
pursuing growth sectors of the time.
JKH was incorporated as a public limited liability company in 1979 and 
obtained a listing on the Colombo Stock Exchange in 1986. Having 
issued Global Depository Receipts (GDRs) which were listed on the 
Luxembourg Stock Exchange, JKH became the first Sri Lankan company 
to be listed overseas.
The Group’s investment philosophy is based on a positive outlook, 
bold approach, commitment to delivery and flexibility to change. JKH 
is also committed to maintaining integrity, ethical dealings, sustainable 
development and greater social responsibility in a multi-stakeholder 
context. JKH is a full member of the World Economic Forum and a 
Participant member of the UN Global Compact.
The Holding Company of the Group, John Keells Holdings PLC, is based 
at 117, Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha, Colombo 2 and has 
offices and businesses located across Sri Lanka and the Maldives.
Other, including 
Information Technology 
and Plantation Services
Information Technology
Plantation Services
Other
Financial Services
Insurance
Banking
Stockbroking
Consumer Foods
Beverages
Frozen Confectionery
Convenience Foods
Retail
Supermarkets
Office Automation
Leisure
Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts
Destination Management
Hotel Management
Property
Property Development
Property Management
Transportation
Transportation
Ports and Shipping
Industry Groups and Sectors

8 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
OUR BUSINESS MODEL
Vision: Building businesses that are leaders in the region
Fundamental forms of Capital deployed	
	
	
	
	
	
Value creation / preservation overtime	
	
Inputs
Value Creation Interventions and Returns
Processes and Frameworks
Activities
Financial and  
Manufactured 
Capital
	y
Shareholder funds and 
debt
	y
Cash flow from 
operations
	y
Land bank
	y
Machinery and 
operations
Corporate Governance Framework 
Human Resource Governance 
Integrated Risk Management Framework 
Information Technology Governance 
Tax Governance
Corporate Social Responsibility 
Group Policies
Mandatory Regulatory Frameworks 
Voluntary Frameworks and Mechanisms 
Sustainability Management Framework
Strategic, Resource Allocation and Portfolio 
Management 
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) 
Management 
Strategy Formulation and Decision-Making 
Stakeholder Management and Effective 
Communication 
JKH Code of Conduct 
Industry Groups
	y
Transportation
	y
Consumer Foods
	y
Retail
	y
Leisure
	y
Property
	y
Financial Services
	y
Other, including Information Technology 
and Plantation Services
	y
Effective and responsible investment of 
shareholder funds
	y
Business development activities
	y
Cost reduction initiatives
Natural 
Capital
	y
Energy
	y
Water
	y
Other natural resources
	y
Environmental impact assessment and mitigation 
of impacts
	y
Roll-out of carbon footprint and energy 
management initiatives
	y
Strengthening of water and waste management 
processes 
Human 
Capital
	y
Employee diversity
	y
Experience
	y
Skills and competencies 
	y
Leveraging on employee skills and expertise for 
business growth
	y
Training and development of employee cadre
	y
Performance management and appraisals
	y
Employee survey initiatives
	y
Structured career development programmes
Social and 
Relationship 
Capital
	y
Dedicated CSR team
	y
Strategic and 
sustainable community 
development
	y
Investor relations 
and stakeholder 
management
	y
Staff volunteerism
	y
Health and safety 
initiatives
	y
Investment in community and livelihood development
	y
Regular dialogue with investors, analysts and other 
stakeholders
	y
Social impact assessments
	y
Identification of key stakeholders and material aspects 
in relation to them
	y
Awareness creation and engagement of suppliers
	y
Social needs assessment based on SDGs/UNGC/
national agenda
Intellectual 
Capital
	y
Brand equity and 
stewardship
	y
Research and 
development
	y
Technological expertise
	y
Digital infrastructure
	y
Development of intangible infrastructure, 
processes and procedures to improve efficiency
	y
New product development
	y
Innovation
Values:       	
Caring	
Excellence	
Stakeholder returns and engagement

9
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
   Transformed Capital that produces stakeholder value
Value Derived
  Outcomes
Alignment 
with SDGs
Outputs
Indicators as at 31 Mar 2023
	y
Shareholder returns and 
dividends
	y
Payments to other stakeholders
	y
Share price appreciation
	y
Financial stability
	y
Financial growth
	y
Creation of wealth
	y
Efficient disposal of all effluent 
and waste
	y
Reduction of carbon footprint
	y
Reduced resource consumption 
through better monitoring
	y
Sustainable natural resource 
utilisation
	y
Biodiversity preservation
	y
Staff motivation
	y
Talented and efficient workforce
	y
Job satisfaction
	y
Career progression
	y
Safe and equitable environment
	y
Alignment of workforce with 
Group vision
	y
Profitable businesses through 
improved productivity and 
efficiency
	y
Community skills development
	y
Well informed and sound 
investment decisions
	y
Better supplier/distributor and 
stakeholder relations
	y
Individuals and communities 
empowered with knowledge, 
skills and opportunities for a 
better future
	y
Brand visibility and reputation
	y
Strengthened supply chain
	y
Adherence to UN SDGs
	y
Patents
	y
Copyrights
	y
Evolving businesses to suit 
the ever changing, dynamic 
consumer
	y
An entity better prepared to  
face disruptive business models
Rs.341 billion
69%
1,557,360
Rs.5.8 billion
	 Transparency in Corporate Reporting (TRAC) Assessment 
by Transparency International Sri Lanka (TISL) 2022
	 LMD’s Most Respected Entity 
	 LMD Top 100 Entities 
0.38 MT
46%
Rs.745 billion
249
Rs.129 billion
26 hours
81%
7.00 m3
Rs.193.89 billion
67 : 33
Shareholder funds
Employee  
retention rate
Number of persons 
impacted by community 
engagements 
Value of intangible assets
Awards and accolades
Carbon footprint per 
Rs.million of revenue
Non-hazardous waste recycled/reused by Group 
companies and through third party contractors
Group assets
Injuries
Net debt (cash)
Average hours of 
training per employee
Proportion of purchases 
from suppliers within  
Sri Lanka
Water withdrawal  
per Rs.million of revenue
Market capitalisation
Male : Female  
staff ratio
Trust	
 Innovation	
Integrity

10 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
CHAIRPERSON’S MESSAGE
I am pleased to present the Integrated Annual Report and the Financial 
Statements for the financial year ended 31 March 2023.
I trust our Report will provide you with an in-depth understanding of the Group’s value creation process and 
the strategies in place to manage the diverse portfolio of businesses towards driving sustainable growth, 
particularly in terms of navigating our businesses through the macroeconomic crisis in the country and the 
way ahead for the Group.
Dear Stakeholder,
The Group reported a strong performance 
during the year amidst the unprecedented 
challenges in the operating environment. 
Despite the significant earnings before interest 
expense, tax, depreciation and amortisation 
(EBITDA) recognition of Rs.6.30 billion from 
the handover of the residential apartment 
units and commercial floors at ‘Cinnamon Life 
Integrated Resort’ in 2021/22 compared with 
the absence of corresponding recognition in 
the current year, the recurring Group EBITDA 
increased by 17% over the previous year to 
Rs.45.74 billion, driven by the Transportation 
businesses, the significant turnaround in the 
Group’s Leisure businesses and improved 
performance across other business verticals. 
Over the course of the year under review, Sri 
Lanka has witnessed a strong turnaround 
from the onset of its worst macroeconomic 
crisis, and it is encouraging to witness the 
continuation of normal day-to-day activities in 
the country, supported by continued political 
and social stability. 
Whilst there were no pandemic related 
disruptions during the year, the Sri Lankan 
economy faced a multitude of unprecedented 
challenges, particularly during the first two 
quarters of the year under review. The financial 
year 2022/23 commenced with significant 
pressure on the Sri Lankan Rupee on the back 
of the free float of the currency in March 2022 
due to the previously pegged exchange rate 
not being reflective of market rates and the 
significant tightening of the foreign exchange 
markets which had resulted in shortages 
of many essential commodities. Due to the 
precarious foreign currency reserves position 
and lack of liquidity in the foreign exchange 
markets, the Government of Sri Lanka declared 
a pre-emptive measure of suspending 
the servicing of almost all of its external 
debt obligations, including international 
sovereign bonds, bi-lateral loans and facilities 
guaranteed by the Government. The volatile 
environment and severe shortage of essential 
items were subsequently exacerbated by social unrest and political uncertainty, culminating in the 
resignation of both the Prime Minister and the President by July 2022. In addition, tourist arrivals 
to the country, which was witnessing an encouraging post-pandemic recovery, recorded a sharp 
slowdown due to multiple travel advisories issued and negative perceptions as a result of the 
socio-economic turmoil. 
The appointment of a new President and the subsequent appointment of a Prime Minister 
and Cabinet resulted in political stability while many of the shortages of essential commodity 
items were largely resolved in a relatively short period of time, enabling a faster than anticipated 
resumption of normal activities. In September 2022, Sri Lanka reached a staff level agreement on 
an Extended Fund Facility (EFF) arrangement of USD 2.90 billion with the International Monetary 
Fund (IMF), subject to Sri Lanka meeting a series of conditions that included tightening its fiscal 
and monetary policy, restructuring its debt with its main international creditors and public  
sector reforms. 
Further to this, the Government announced and implemented several significant policy actions 
and reforms, aimed towards achieving a path of fiscal consolidation and reaching sustainable debt 
levels. Significant increases in both direct and indirect tax rates were announced with the intention 
of increasing Government tax revenue to approximately 15% of gross domestic product by 2025 
from the current 8.5%. Market reflective pricing mechanisms were established for fuel and cooking 
gas whilst multiple upward revisions to electricity tariffs were undertaken to reduce the cost of 
subsidies provided by the Government. A fuel rationing scheme was successfully implemented to 
ensure equitable and consistent distribution across the country which addressed the fuel shortage. 
With the implementation of the various policy reforms and actions, the domestic economic 
environment, particularly, the foreign exchange liquidity position in the country experienced a 
strong turnaround from the peak stresses witnessed in the first two quarters of the year. The country 
has seen a continued deceleration in inflation, where rates have eased to ~35% in April 2023 
from the peak of over ~70% over the past 12 months, as prices started to stabilise due to the high 
interest rate regime and other factors. Although inflation has decelerated, the elevated levels of 
inflation prevalent since the beginning of 2022/23 compared to the past, and the impact of higher 
direct and indirect taxes, have dampened consumer discretionary spend, the impact of which we 
are witnessing in our Consumer Foods and Supermarket businesses. The Central Bank of Sri Lanka 
(CBSL) expects inflation to reduce to a low single digit by the end of this calendar year aided by the 
continued tight monetary policy and favourable base effects together with the easing of global 
inflationary pressures and an appreciating currency. The improving trade balance in the country 
and substantial increases in tourism receipts and foreign currency remittances resulted in strong 
net inflows into the country from the fourth quarter of 2022/23 onwards. With the banking sector 
clearing many of the backlogs and liquidity imbalances stemming from the sharp depreciation 
of the Rupee in the first half of the year, the foreign currency liquidity position has reverted to 
normalcy, supported by lower imports and the suspension of the servicing of foreign currency 
debts. These impacts, together with the impending EFF announcement, at the time, resulted in the 
Sri Lankan Rupee witnessing an appreciation of approximately 10% in February 2023 which enabled 
the CBSL to remove some restrictions which were implemented in the market. With the significant 
turnaround in the foreign exchange market, together with other policy measures, the official 
reserves position has improved dramatically from that of 12 months ago, where the reserves have 
increased to USD 2.69 billion as at March 2023 from USD 1.81 billion in April 2022. 

11
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
	y
The Group reported a resilient performance during the year, amidst the 
unprecedented challenges in the operating environment, recording 
a recurring EBITDA growth of 17% to Rs.45.74 billion. This is despite 
the substantial EBITDA recognition of Rs.6.30 billion from the revenue 
of the handover of the residential apartment units and commercial 
floors at ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’ in 2021/22, compared to the 
absence of corresponding recognition in the current year.
	y
The growth in recurring Group EBITDA was mainly driven by 
the Transportation businesses, the significant turnaround in the 
Group’s Leisure businesses and improved performance across 
other business verticals. 
	y
Sri Lanka has witnessed a strong turnaround from the onset of 
its worst macroeconomic crisis, and it is encouraging to witness 
the continuation of normal day-to-day activities in the country, 
supported by continued political and social stability.
	y
The Group’s Bunkering business recorded a significant increase 
in profitability driven by higher margins on account of the steep 
increase in fuel oil prices and volumes during the first half of the 
year, whilst the profitability of the Group’s Ports and Shipping 
business recorded an increase as a result of higher revenue 
from ancillary operations and the translation impact due to the 
depreciation of the Rupee.
	y
The groundwork on the West Container Terminal (WCT-1) at 
the Port of Colombo is progressing well with the entirety of the 
dredging works for both phases near complete.
	y
The Leisure industry group recorded a strong performance driven 
by the Maldivian Resorts and the recovery momentum in the 
Colombo Hotels and Sri Lankan Resorts segments, supported by 
a return to normalcy on the back of continued political and social 
stability during the second half of the financial year.
	y
The Supermarket business recorded a recurring EBITDA growth of 
45% to Rs.7.46 billion due to an increase in same store sales driven 
by a combination of higher customer footfall and basket values on 
account of high inflation.
	y
Profitability in the Consumer Foods businesses was impacted 
by volume declines in the second half of the year, reflective of 
dampened consumer sentiments, and lower margins. With global 
raw material prices coming off its peak, the stabilisation of the 
country’s foreign exchange liquidity position and the appreciation 
of the Rupee, the pressure on margins has started to gradually 
ease from the fourth quarter of 2022/23 onwards. 
	y
The Property industry group recorded a decline in profitability due to 
2021/22 including revenue and profit recognition from the handover 
of the residential apartment units at ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’, 
compared with the absence of any corresponding recognition in the 
current year. The recognition of revenue of all units sold at ‘Cinnamon 
Life Integrated Resort’ was completed by 31 March 2022. 
	y
Subsequent to the gazetting of the gaming regulations by the 
Government in August 2022, the Group is currently engaged in 
discussions with leading international gaming operators to secure the 
necessary international gaming expertise to operate at ‘Cinnamon Life 
Integrated Resort’ with the Group leasing the space for such operations. 
Similar to the experience with integrated resorts in other Asian countries, 
‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’ has the potential to transform 
Colombo as a destination for leisure and entertainment and lead to 
significant foreign exchange earnings for the country.   
	y
The Financial Services industry group recorded a strong growth in 
profitability, where the Insurance business witnessed a growth in the life 
insurance surplus and gross written premiums whilst Nations Trust Bank 
recorded an increase in net interest margins and a reduction in costs. 
	y
OCTAVE, the Group’s Data and Advanced Analytics Centre of Excellence, 
worked on a series of advanced analytics use cases in the Retail, 
Consumer Foods, Financial Services and Leisure industry groups which 
yielded promising results with pilot projects delivering evidence of 
the significant value that can be unlocked from translating advanced 
analytics insights into front line business interventions.
	y
Reflecting the positive results of the efficiency initiatives embarked 
upon, the Group’s carbon footprint per million rupees of revenue 
decreased by 29% and water withdrawn per million rupees of revenue 
decreased by 31%. 
	y
Initiatives under ‘ONE JKH’, the Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DE&I) 
brand of the John Keells Group, included the introduction of 100 days of 
Equal Parental Leave aimed at eliminating the discrimination associated 
with recruiting women, due to potential concerns about maternity leave.  
	y
Cognisant of the multiple economic hardships faced by the people of the 
country, and in recognition of the Group’s role as a leading responsible 
corporate citizen, the Group continued its multi-pronged crisis response 
programme with a particular focus in the areas of food security, education 
and nutrition among vulnerable segments such as school children. 
	y
JKH donated Rs.100 million to the ‘Suwa Seriya’ Foundation for the 
operations of the ‘Suwa Seriya Ambulance Service’, which provides free-of-
charge lifesaving emergency medical assistance to the public across the 
country. The donation aims to support the ambulance service, which was 
facing financial constraints, allowing the service to continue operations. 
*EBITDA includes interest income and the share of results of equity accounted investees which is based on the share of profit after tax but excludes all impacts from foreign 
currency exchange gains and losses (other than for equity accounted investees), to demonstrate the underlying cash operational performance of businesses.
(Rs.’000) 
Recurring EBITDA*
2022/23
2021/22
Variance
%
Transportation
 11,963,136 
6,140,923
5,822,213
95
Consumer Foods
3,184,139
3,484,778
 (300,639)
(9)
Retail
8,778,841
 7,549,338
1,229,503
16
Leisure
8,604,117
3,784,901
 4,819,216
127
Property
(265,486)
 7,867,199 
(8,132,685)
(103)
Financial Services
 6,451,249
5,023,608
1,427,641
28
Summarised below are the key operational and financial highlights during the year under review.

12 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
CHAIRPERSON’S MESSAGE
While many challenges remain, the country has, possibly for 
the first time ever, put in place the fundamental framework of 
economic policies that will enable us to emerge from this crisis 
stronger. We are optimistic that Sri Lanka is on a path to recovery, 
particularly, if these measures continue to be in place and 
sustained over a period of time.
Sri Lanka received the much-anticipated approval from the Executive Board of the IMF for the 
EFF arrangement in March 2023 to support the restoration of macroeconomic stability and debt 
sustainability. In April 2023, Sri Lanka received the initial tranche of ~USD 333 million whilst Sri 
Lanka’s creditor nations met in May 2023 to pursue debt structuring options that would provide 
a sustainable solution to Sri Lanka’s debt repayment obligations, consistent with the parameters 
of the IMF programme. Sri Lanka is now faced with the challenging task of negotiating with 
the country’s creditors to reach an equitable debt treatment plan with all creditors. There is still 
uncertainty as to the need for a domestic debt restructuring (DDR) and, even if so, the form, 
structure and breadth of the same. The Governor of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka has assured 
the stability of the domestic banking system as well as the protection of public deposits will be 
paramount in any kind of debt optimisation programme. The risk premia currently attached to 
domestic debt as a result of this uncertainty should fall away once there is clarity on the DDR with 
expectations that interest rates will ease significantly thereafter.  
Sri Lanka recorded over 770,000 tourist arrivals for 2022/23, with March 2023 recording the highest 
number of arrivals since the peak of the economic crisis. Although arrivals are still significantly 
below pre-pandemic levels, it is encouraging to witness the month-on-month pick-up in inquiries 
and forward bookings. The Group is confident that the current recovery trend in arrivals will 
continue, particularly given the opening of the Chinese borders for international travel after a 
period of three years and the increase in frequencies of flights by a few major airlines. Tourism will 
be a key catalyst to drive the recovery of the economy, particularly in the context of the positive 
impact it will have on foreign exchange earnings. In light of this, we continue to urge the tourism 
authorities to expedite the launch of Sri Lanka’s much awaited global marketing campaign, 
especially in our key source markets, particularly to address the lack of awareness and negative 
perception regarding the ground situation in the country. 
We wish to commend and recognise the efforts of the Government and policy-makers for 
successfully navigating the economic stabilisation measures over the last few quarters and 
in reaching some key milestones including securing the EFF with the IMF, together with the 
implementation of difficult policy actions. While many challenges remain, the country has, 
possibly for the first time ever, put in place the fundamental framework of economic policies 
that will enable us to emerge from this crisis stronger. We are optimistic that Sri Lanka is on a 
path to recovery, particularly, if these measures continue to be in place and sustained over a 
period of time. Whilst these measures, as expected, would curtail consumer spend and activity 
in the short to medium-term, the stability and confidence in achieving fiscal consolidation will 
lead to a more sustained recovery. The new legislative enactments regarding fiscal responsibility 
are much needed to ensure policy consistency and macroeconomic stability as it provides the 
required checks and balances. We urge the authorities to expedite the implementation of much 
needed public sector reforms, including privatisation, as done by countries when faced with 
similar challenges in the past, to restore and sustain fiscal discipline. These reforms will also aid 
the Government in raising revenue through investment while ensuring better collaboration, 
technology and knowledge transfer in key industries. 
Through the volatility and uncertainty of the previous years, your company maintained its belief 
that challenges can also be catalysts for positive transformation. Together with our partners, 
we launched the biggest port investment in the country, while the steady progress of work on 
‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’ – notwithstanding the obstacles of last year – has moved the 
Group closer towards completion of this transformational investment. I am confident that as these 
investments come to fruition, your Group will see a significant upward ‘re-rating’ of its performance 
from the already strong platform we have built over the years. 
GROUP PERFORMANCE
For the financial year 2022/23, Group revenue 
(excluding equity accounted investees) 
increased by 27% to Rs.276.64 billion while 
recurring Group EBITDA increased by 17% 
to Rs.45.74 billion. This growth is despite 
the significant EBITDA contribution of 
Rs.6.30 billion from the Group’s Property 
business, which included the revenue and 
profit recognition from the handover of 
the residential apartments and commercial 
office floors at ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated 
Resort’, compared with the absence of any 
corresponding revenue recognition in the 
current year. 
The recurring Group profit before tax (PBT) 
decreased by 30% to Rs.17.14 billion while the 
recurring profit attributable to equity holders 
of the parent decreased by 35% to Rs.13.33 
billion for the financial year ended 31 March 
2023. In addition to the aforementioned 
decline in the Property industry group, the 
decline in PBT is on account of the higher 
finance expenses due to the significant 
increase in interest rates in the market which 
affected the Leisure and Retail industry 
groups, in particular, given the relatively 
higher working capital and debt facilities. 
The increase in working capital in Retail was 
temporary on account of the investments 
to ensure the continuation of supplies and 
minimise disruptions, which has now stabilised 
with the business reverting to normalised 
levels of working capital. Further, the PBT of 
the Holding Company was impacted by the 
translation impact of the IFC loan interest 
payment and the notional non-cash interest 
charged on the convertible debentures issued 
to HWIC Asia Fund (HWIC) in August 2022, in 
line with the accounting treatment, due to 
a significant difference between the market 
interest rates and the 3% interest accrued on 
the instrument. 
The recurring EBITDA analysis below is post 
the elimination of one-off impacts in order 
to demonstrate the performance of the core 
operations of the businesses. The recurring 
adjustments are detailed in the ensuing 
section, where relevant, of this Message and 
the Financial and Manufactured Capital Review 
section of the Report. As the Annual Report 
contains discussions on the macroeconomic 
factors and its impact on our businesses as 
well as a detailed discussion and analysis of 
each of the industry groups, I will focus on a 
high-level summation of the performance of 
each industry group during the financial year 
2022/23. 

13
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
TRANSPORTATION
Revenue incl. Associates
Rs.94.28 billion
2021/22: Rs.43.82 billion
115%
Recurring EBITDA
Rs.11.96 billion
2021/22: Rs.6.14 billion
95%
Recurring PBT
Rs.10.97 billion
2021/22: Rs.5.71 billion
92%
Recurring PAT
Rs.10.49 billion
2021/22: Rs.5.43 billion
93%
The groundwork on the West 
Container Terminal at the Port 
of Colombo is progressing 
well with the entirety of the 
dredging works for both 
phases near complete. Overall 
timelines for the project 
remain as originally envisaged.
ISSUE OF UNLISTED CONVERTIBLE 
DEBENTURES
As announced to the Colombo Stock 
Exchange in August 2022, the Company 
received the funds and concluded the 
issuance of convertible debentures amounting 
to Rs.27.06 billion, by way of a private 
placement of Rupee denominated securities 
to HWIC Asia Fund (HWIC), a subsidiary of 
Fairfax Financial Holdings Limited, Canada. 
208,125,000 Sri Lankan Rupee denominated 
unrated, unlisted, unsecured convertible 
debentures were issued to HWIC at an issue 
price of Rs.130 per debenture. The debentures 
have a maturity period of three years and will 
accrue interest at a rate of 3% per annum. 
The date of maturity of the debentures is 12 
August 2025 with HWIC having the option to 
convert each debenture to one new ordinary 
share of the Company during the conversion 
period commencing from 12 February 2024 to 
12 August 2025. 
TRANSPORTATION 
The Transportation industry group recurring EBITDA of Rs.11.96 billion in 2022/23 is an increase of 
95% over the recurring EBITDA of the previous financial year [2021/22: Rs.6.14 billion]. The recurring 
EBITDA for 2022/23 includes a one-off deferred tax charge of Rs.1.35 billion in the Group’s Ports and 
Shipping business, South Asia Gateway Terminals (SAGT), on account of the significant change in 
income tax rates, as the share of results of equity accounted investees are consolidated net of all 
related taxes. 
The increase in profitability is mainly attributable to the strong performance of the Group’s 
Bunkering business, Lanka Marine Services (LMS), and SAGT. LMS recorded a significant increase 
in profitability driven by higher margins on account of the steep increase in global fuel oil prices 
during the first half of the year, as well as higher volumes for the year supported by local fuel 
sales. LMS continued to retain its market leadership position in the Sri Lankan bunker market. 
Despite the decline in overall volumes at the Port of Colombo, the profitability at SAGT recorded 
an increase as a result of higher revenue from ancillary operations and the benefit of the steep 
depreciation of the Rupee.
In May 2022, the Government of Sri Lanka granted approval for licensed bunkering businesses to 
import and supply fuel oil to local industries to ensure continuity of operations in light of the fuel 
shortages in the country and ease the burden on Government supplies. LMS also provided fuel to 
such local industries which helped them navigate supply issues while these sales incrementally 
supported the overall volumes at LMS. 
The groundwork on the West Container Terminal (WCT-1) at the Port of Colombo is progressing 
well with the entirety of the dredging works for both phases near complete. The contract for the 
quay wall construction, a significant component of the overall construction works, was awarded in 
October 2022. Overall timelines for the project remain as originally envisaged. The WCT-1, which 
has a lease period of 35 years, is a deep-water terminal with a quay length of 1,400 meters, an 
alongside depth of 20 meters and an annual handling capacity of ~3.2 million TEUs. Phase 1 of the 
terminal, comprising of a quay length of 800 meters as against the previous 600 meters, is slated 
to be operational by the third quarter of 2024/25. The extension of the quay length in Phase 1 
facilitates the servicing of two large vessels concurrently, which will enable a higher throughput 
once Phase 1 is operational. The remainder of the terminal is expected to be completed by the 
third quarter of 2025/26.
CONSUMER FOODS 
The Consumer Foods industry group recurring EBITDA of Rs.3.18 billion in 2022/23 is a decrease of 
9% over the recurring EBITDA of the previous financial year [2021/22: Rs.3.48 billion].
Despite the macroeconomic disruptions, the Consumer Foods businesses recorded a strong 
volume recovery momentum in the first half of the year, with volumes exceeding pre-pandemic 
levels. However, the performance in the second half of the year was negatively impacted by 
a decline in volumes and margin contraction across the businesses as the impact of elevated 
inflation, price increases and dampening consumer demand took effect. 
Given the increases in raw material prices, which was largely a global phenomenon, coupled 
with the impact of the steep depreciation of the Rupee and the high inflationary environment, 
the business undertook price increases across its portfolio to mitigate the margin pressure. 
The price increases, together with higher direct and indirect taxes and declining consumer 
disposable income, dampened demand, thereby impacting volumes in the second half of the 
year. It should be noted that volumes in the third quarter of the previous year benefited to an 
extent from the stocking up of inventory post the easing of pandemic related restrictions. Whilst 
the domestic macroeconomic and supply chain conditions recorded substantial improvements 
during the second half of the year under review and day-to-day business activity reverted to levels 
of normalcy, consumer demand began to subdue on account of the reasons outlined above. 
However, it is encouraging to note that the volumes of the Beverages business witnessed a pick-up 
in the month of April 2023, although it is too early to ascertain whether this trend would continue.   

14 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
CHAIRPERSON’S MESSAGE
The performance of the 
Supermarket business remained 
insulated, to a large extent, 
despite the macroeconomic 
challenges, considering that 
essential and regular grocery and 
household items constitute a large 
portion of a consumer basket.
RETAIL
The Retail industry group recurring EBITDA of Rs.8.78 billion in 2022/23 is an increase of 
16% over the recurring EBITDA of the previous financial year [2021/22: Rs.7.55 billion]. The 
Supermarket business recurring EBITDA of Rs.7.46 billion in 2022/23 is an increase of 45% 
against the previous financial year [2021/22: Rs.5.20 billion].
Despite the challenging operating environment, the Supermarket business recorded a strong 
performance with same store sales recording encouraging growth driven by a combination 
of higher customer footfall and basket values due to high inflation. The sustained increase 
in footfall is encouraging as it demonstrates the continued potential for higher penetration 
of certain customer segments. The revenue of the Supermarket business was supported by 
the substantial price increases driven by suppliers, although growth in basket values were 
offset to some extent by a reduction in the items purchased due to subdued consumer 
sentiment. However, margins remain under pressure given the significant cost escalations in 
operations primarily due to the increase in electricity tariffs and, to a lesser extent, staff costs. 
The introduction of the social security contribution levy (SSCL), which is a revenue based tax 
similar to the nation building tax in force a few years ago, had a further significant impact on 
the margins of the business. The business managed to re-negotiate margins with suppliers and 
mitigate this impact to a large extent. The business will continue to place emphasis on cost 
optimisation and working capital management. The performance of the Supermarket business 
remained insulated, to a large extent, despite the macroeconomic challenges, considering that 
essential and regular grocery and household items constitute a large portion of a consumer 
basket. 
Given the notable shortages in essential goods and other fast-moving items in the first half 
of the year, the business proactively ramped up its direct sourcing strategy with the aim of 
bridging gaps and, more importantly, providing its customers with such products at the 
best possible value. This has also helped drive footfall to our outlets. Whilst the Supermarket 
business has increased penetration of its private label range, this focus was augmented with 
the intention of managing inventory better and also providing its customers with better 
choice and ‘value for money’. The state-of-the-art distribution centre commissioned in 
2021/22, where the entire dry product and fresh range was centralised together with other 
best in class practices being adopted, was pivotal in managing the supply chain disruptions 
and ensuring the outlets were supplied in the most optimum and efficient manner.
During the year under review, the expansion of the outlet network was moderated due to 
the uncertainty and volatility of construction related costs. While the investment per outlet 
has increased significantly, the business is also seeing higher revenue per outlet which will in 
turn positively impact the feasibility studies of prospective outlets. During the year, four new 
outlets were opened whilst one outlet was closed, increasing the total outlet count to 131 
outlets as of 31 March 2023. The business will continue to selectively expand its network, and 
such expansions in the outlet base will be considered on a case-by-case basis, with feasibilities 
stress-tested under sensitised scenarios.
In line with the brand expansion plans of the Supermarket business, where the business 
leverages on a standard and an extended format depending on the income levels of the 
locality, three outlets were upgraded to the extended ‘iconic’ format during the year under 
review. This concept for select ‘Keells’ outlets, is aimed at enhancing the overall customer 
experience through best-in-class retail technological solutions and a wider offering. Despite 
the additional investment associated with the conversion of the standard format outlets to the 
extended format, the payback on these investments based on incremental performance has 
been attractive.  
The Office Automation business recorded a significant reduction in sales volume due to the 
continued import restrictions on non-essential items, which was further exacerbated by the 
steep increase in unit prices of all imported products as a result of the depreciation of the 
Rupee. The performance of the Office Automation business is witnessing a gradual recovery as 
the foreign currency liquidity position of the country has stabilised.  
With global raw material prices 
coming off its peak, together 
with declining freight costs, the 
stabilisation of the country’s 
foreign exchange liquidity 
position, the appreciation of 
the Rupee and the improved 
raw material availability, the 
pressure on margins has started 
to gradually ease from the fourth 
quarter of 2022/23 onwards.
With global raw material prices coming off its 
peak, together with declining freight costs, the 
stabilisation of the country’s foreign exchange 
liquidity position, the appreciation of the Rupee and 
the improved raw material availability, the pressure 
on margins has started to gradually ease from the 
fourth quarter of 2022/23 onwards. In addition, the 
inventory sourced at higher costs is now largely 
depleted, whilst the gradual reduction in interest 
rates and normalised level of working capital will 
further support the profitability of the businesses. 
While margins at a product level are expected 
to recover, the impact of the lower dilution of 
fixed costs due to reduced operating leverage on 
account of volume declines is yet to be fully seen. 
CONSUMER FOODS
Revenue
Rs.31.27 billion
2021/22: Rs.21.01 billion
49%
Recurring EBITDA
Rs.3.18 billion
2021/22: Rs.3.48 billion
9%
Recurring PBT
Rs.1.14 billion
2021/22: Rs.2.32 billion
51%
Recurring PAT
Rs.2.23 billion
2021/22: Rs.1.90 billion
18%

15
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
RETAIL
Revenue
Rs.106.85 billion
2021/22: Rs.90.84 billion
18%
Recurring EBITDA
Rs.8.78 billion
2021/22: Rs.7.55 billion
16%
Recurring PBT
Rs.1.53 billion
2021/22: Rs.3.06 billion
50%
Recurring PAT
Rs.2.44 billion
2021/22: Rs.2.18 billion
12%
LEISURE
Revenue incl. Associates
Rs.39.86 billion
2021/22: Rs.18.96 billion
110%
Recurring EBITDA
Rs.8.60 billion
2021/22: Rs.3.78 billion
127%
Recurring PBT
Rs.(382) million
2021/22: Rs.(1.51) billion
75%
Recurring PAT
Rs.(614) million
2021/22: Rs.(1.53) billion
60%
The Group is confident that 
the current recovery trend 
in arrivals will continue, 
particularly given the opening 
of the Chinese borders for 
international travel after a 
period of three years and the 
increase in frequencies of 
flights by a few major airlines.
The Group is currently engaged 
in discussions with some leading 
international gaming operators 
to secure the necessary 
international gaming expertise 
to operate at ‘Cinnamon Life 
Integrated Resort’.
LEISURE 
The Leisure industry group recurring EBITDA of Rs.8.60 billion in 2022/23 is an increase of 127% 
against the recurring EBITDA of the previous financial year [2021/22: Rs.3.78 billion]. The recurring 
EBITDA for 2022/23 includes an impairment loss amounting to Rs.422 million at the Destination 
Management business, Whittall Boustead Travel Limited, on its investment in preference shares 
of Saffron Aviation (Private) Limited (SAL), the operating company of ‘Cinnamon Air’, given the 
continued multiple setbacks faced by the tourism industry in the recent years which impacted the 
operating performance of the business.
The strong performance was driven by the Maldivian Resorts and the recovery momentum in the 
Colombo Hotels and Sri Lankan Resorts segments, supported by return to normalcy on the back of 
continued political and social stability during the second half of the financial year. The PBT of the 
industry group was impacted by higher finance expenses due to the significant increase in interest 
rates on working capital facilities obtained.
The Maldivian Resorts segment continued its strong performance with occupancies averaging 
over 90%, supported by arrivals from both traditional and new source markets. 
The Colombo Hotels recorded a strong performance in its restaurant and banqueting operations. 
Occupancies of the Colombo Hotels improved on the back of a gradual recovery in business 
travel. Whilst the first half of the year was subdued due to the fuel restrictions and social instability 
witnessed in the country, the Sri Lankan Resorts segment witnessed a rebound in occupancies 
during the second half of the year driven by domestic travel and improved tourist arrivals. Margins 
in the Sri Lankan Leisure businesses were under pressure given the rising input and utility costs as 
yields did not pick up commensurately since the benefit of foreign currency revenue was limited 
due to the gradual recovery of tourism.  
Sri Lanka recorded over 770,000 tourist arrivals for 2022/23, with March 2023 recording the 
highest number of arrivals since the peak of the economic crisis. Although arrivals are still 
significantly below pre-pandemic levels, it is encouraging to witness the pick-up in inquiries and 
forward bookings. The Group is confident that the current recovery trend in arrivals will continue, 
particularly given the opening of the Chinese borders for international travel after a period of three 
years and the increase in frequencies of flights by a few major airlines. 
While the current situation on the ground has reverted to normal, the negative perception and 
lack of awareness, especially in our key source markets, has been a challenge in accelerating the 
recovery momentum in tourist arrivals. In light of this, we urge the tourism authorities to expedite 
the launch of Sri Lanka’s much awaited global marketing campaign. Sri Lanka continues to remain 
attractive as a tourist destination given our diverse landscape and unique offerings, with the added 
competitive advantage from a pricing perspective due to the significant depreciation of the Rupee.
Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort 
The construction work at ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’ is progressing well, where the hotel, retail 
and entertainment components are in the final stages of construction. The fitouts and interior works 
of the hotel rooms and common areas are well underway with ~500 rooms already completed. 
Discussions with potential tenants of the retail mall continued during the year, to ensure unique 
attractions and offerings, although arrangements were not finalised pending clarity on the gaming 
operator and related strategy. Various alternatives including experiential offerings focused on food and 
beverages, lifestyle and entertainment, which would complement the hotel and gaming operations, 
are being considered for the retail space. With the project now reaching its final stretch, we are excited 
and pleased to announce that ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’ was formally launched at the Arabian 
Travel Market 2023 held in May with significant awareness and interest being generated. 
Subsequent to the gazetting of the gaming regulations by the Government in August 2022, the 
Group is currently engaged in discussions with some leading international gaming operators to 
secure the necessary international gaming expertise to operate at ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’. 
A lot of groundwork has been carried out by the parties, including detailed site visits, evaluation 
of the business case and operating model, fit-out requirements, designs and timelines. The 
discussions are progressing well, where various commercial structures and arrangements are being 
negotiated. In the event ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’ is unable to obtain favourable terms to 
our satisfaction, as an alternative, we will work on a model where the gaming entity sources the 
requisite international gaming expertise to operate at ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’, similar to 
how some other successful regional integrated resorts have established operations. 

16 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
CHAIRPERSON’S MESSAGE
PROPERTY
Revenue incl. Associates
Rs.4.58 billion
2021/22: Rs.41.48 billion
89%
Recurring EBITDA
Rs.(265) million
2021/22: Rs.7.87 billion
103%
Recurring PBT
Rs.(503) million
2021/22: Rs.7.65 billion
107%
Recurring PAT
Rs.(580) million
2021/22: Rs.7.51 billion
108%
FINANCIAL SERVICES
Revenue incl. Associates
Rs.27.77 billion
2021/22: Rs.24.15 billion
15%
Recurring EBITDA
Rs.6.45 billion
2021/22: Rs.5.02 billion
28%
Recurring PBT
Rs.6.40 billion
2021/22: Rs.4.99 billion
28%
Recurring PAT
Rs.5.32 billion
2021/22: Rs.4.31 billion
23%
The construction activity 
at the ‘TRI-ZEN’ residential 
development project is 
continuing with encouraging 
momentum. The mechanical, 
electrical and plumbing 
work and fit-outs at ‘TRI-ZEN’ 
are well underway, with the 
overall project scheduled for 
completion in end-2023.
UA recorded encouraging 
growth in gross written 
premiums, driven by renewal 
premiums, with UA maintaining 
its position as the second largest 
regular new business producer 
in the industry.
The envisaged structure of the gaming operations is that ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’ will 
lease space to the gaming entity, while a third party will invest in the gaming fit-out. Based 
on discussions, it is estimated that the overall fitout of the gaming space will take a period of 
approximately 12-15 months once the commercial aspects and agreements are finalised. We are 
confident that the convergence of all elements in the launch of the integrated resort will unlock its 
full potential as a transformative development in South Asia and be a catalyst in creating tourism 
demand and foreign exchange earnings for Sri Lanka. 
PROPERTY 
The Property industry group recurring EBITDA of negative Rs.265 million in 2022/23 is a decrease 
against the previous financial year [2021/22: Rs.7.87 billion]. The previous year included a substantial 
EBITDA recognition of Rs.6.30 billion from the revenue of the handover of the residential apartment 
units and commercial floors at ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’, compared to the absence of 
corresponding recognition in the current year. The recognition of revenue of all units sold at 
‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’ was completed by 31 March 2022, and an inventory of 161 units 
remains to be sold. The introduction of value added tax (VAT) of 15% on the sale of residential 
apartments and a SSCL of 2.5%, both of which are on revenue, further suppressed demand. 
Given the near completion of construction works at ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’ and 
the focus and transition on the pre-operational phase of the project with the impending 
commencement of operations in end 2024, the review and reporting of the hotel, retail and 
entertainment components of the project were transitioned to the Leisure industry group. 
The property development components of the project, namely, the two residential apartment 
towers and the commercial tower continue to be recorded under the Property industry group. 
The residential sales at ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’ were slow due to the macroeconomic 
challenges, where the slowdown in sales is more pronounced in the luxury segment in the market.
In discussion with the contractor at ‘TRI-ZEN’, the project construction costs were revisited given 
the escalation in costs on account of the steep depreciation of the Rupee and global commodity 
and freight cost increases, particularly to realign work to meet timely completion. As the cost 
escalation impact is allocated to the profit recognition on the project, there was an adjustment in 
the current year to reflect the cost impact on the sales already recognised in the previous financial 
years, which affected the current year profitability somewhat materially. Since this adjustment has 
been fully absorbed in the current financial year, going forward, the revenue recognition of ‘TRI-
ZEN’ will result in positive profit recognition over the ensuing quarters up to and including project 
completion. The construction activity at the ‘TRI-ZEN’ residential development project is continuing 
with encouraging momentum. The mechanical, electrical and plumbing work and fit-outs at ‘TRI-
ZEN’ are well underway, with the overall project scheduled for completion in end-2023. The current 
high interest rate regime has resulted in a slowdown in sales, although we expect that ‘TRI-ZEN’s 
positioning as an affordable living solution with a Rupee pricing model, which mitigates the risk of 
fluctuating exchange rates for buyers, offers a strong value proposition. 
FINANCIAL SERVICES 
The Financial Services industry group recurring EBITDA of Rs.6.45 billion in 2022/23 is an increase 
of 28% over the recurring EBITDA of the previous financial year [2021/22: Rs.5.02 billion]. The strong 
growth in profitability was driven by both Union Assurance PLC (UA) and Nations Trust Bank PLC (NTB).
UA recorded encouraging growth in gross written premiums, driven by renewal premiums, with 
UA maintaining its position as the second largest regular new business producer in the industry. 
Net investment income recorded growth as a result of an asset reallocation which benefited from 
the high interest rate environment which prevailed during the year. The business continued to 
strengthen its partnerships with multiple leading banks, consolidating its position as the market 
leader in the bancassurance industry in the country through two new partnerships and renewing an 
existing partnership during the year. UA recorded an annual life insurance surplus of Rs.2.30 billion in 
2022/23, a notable increase against the surplus of Rs.1.60 billion recorded in the previous year, mainly 
arising from an increase in GWP, increase in net investment income and management of expenses.

17
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
OTHER, INCLUDING INFORMATION 
TECHNOLOGY AND PLANTATION 
SERVICES
Revenue
Rs.6.87 billion
2021/22: Rs.4.04 billion
70%
Recurring EBITDA
Rs.7.02 billion
2021/22: Rs.5.41 billion
30%
Recurring PBT
Rs.(2.02) billion
2021/22: Rs.2.21 billion
191%
Recurring PAT
Rs.(5.18) billion
2021/22: Rs.958 million
640%
Work on a series of 
advanced analytics use cases 
in the Retail, Consumer 
Foods, Financial Services 
and Leisure industry groups 
yielded promising results 
with pilot projects delivering 
evidence of significant 
value that can be unlocked 
from translating advanced 
analytics insights into front 
line business interventions.
Nations Trust Bank PLC (NTB) recorded an 
increase in profitability driven by an increase 
in net interest margins due to the timely re-
pricing of assets which comprised primarily of 
a short-duration lending portfolio in a rising 
interest rate environment and efficient cost 
saving strategies, although profitability was 
impacted, to an extent, by the impairment 
charges, in line with industry, on the Sri 
Lankan Government foreign securities. The 
total exposure in this segment is low at 
approximately 2% of the total assets of NTB. 
Whilst the severe macroeconomic stresses 
have largely stabilised, the Bank will continue 
to rigorously assess credit quality and persist 
with the stringent cost management culture 
in place, including leveraging on technology 
to enhance customer experience. The Bank is 
confident that it has the required resources to 
withstand the potential impacts arising from 
the current macroeconomic environment, 
given the strong capital base, healthy liquidity 
buffers and robust risk management models. 
OTHER, INCLUDING INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND PLANTATION 
SERVICES
The Information Technology sector recurring EBITDA of Rs.758 million in 2022/23 is an increase 
of 68% over the recurring EBITDA of the previous financial year [2021/22: Rs.451 million]. The 
improved performance is on account of onboarding new clients and expanding the scope of 
services. 
The Plantation Services sector recurring EBITDA of Rs.944 million in 2022/23 is a significant increase 
over the recurring EBITDA of the previous financial year [2021/22: Rs.239 million]. The increase in 
profitability is primarily on account of improved tea prices. 
Other, comprising of the Holding Company and other investments, the Information Technology 
and Plantation Services sectors, together, recorded a recurring EBITDA of Rs.7.02 billion in 2022/23, 
which is an increase of 30% over the recurring EBITDA of the previous financial year [2021/22: 
Rs.5.41 billion]. The increase in EBITDA is mainly attributable to the increase in interest income 
due to the translation impact on the foreign currency denominated cash held at the Holding 
Company on account of the depreciation of the Rupee. The PBT of the Holding Company was 
negatively impacted by an increase in finance expenses as a result of the increase in interest rates, 
the translation impact of the IFC loan interest and the notional, non-cash, interest charged on the 
convertible debentures issued to HWIC in August 2022, in line with the accounting treatment, due 
to significant difference between the market interest rates and the 3% interest accrued on the 
instrument.
ADVANCED ANALYTICS 
The Group’s advanced analytics transformation journey, in collaboration with a global consulting 
firm, continued with the deployment of advanced analytics solutions or ‘use cases’, whilst driving 
the adoption of a greater degree of data-driven decision making in day-to-day operations of 
businesses across the Group. OCTAVE, the Data and Advanced Analytics Centre of Excellence of the 
Group, continued to grow in capability and team strength, functioning as a pure play advanced 
analytics practice equipped to deliver end-to-end advanced analytics solutions. 
As stated in the 2021/22 JKH Annual Report, work on a series of advanced analytics use cases in the 
Retail, Consumer Foods, Financial Services and Leisure industry groups yielded promising results 
with pilot projects delivering evidence of significant value that can be unlocked from translating 
advanced analytics insights into front line business interventions. Accordingly, tested use cases 
continued to be rolled out at scale. The ongoing assessment of the impact to the business of these 
advanced analytics solutions, post roll-out and complete business wide adoption, has provided 
strong evidence that the anticipated benefits that were evident through initial pilot projects can 
be sustained at scale, with iterations to adapt to a changing operating environment as and when 
required.
The domestic macroeconomic challenges necessitated a continued review of the timing, piloting 
and rolling out of certain use cases. However, with the operating environment exhibiting a degree 
of stability in the second half of the year under review, many of the use cases that were developed 
and pending pilot, were rolled out successfully, particularly in the Supermarket and the Beverages 
businesses.
During the year under review, OCTAVE embarked on creating new road maps for potential 
use cases across several verticals of the Group while data governance practices were further 
strengthened with the adoption of a data governance tool that was deployed to serve core 
verticals. 
The OCTAVE Advanced Analytics Academy, which offers in-class room training, online courses 
and curated on-the-job learning for each cohort of roles linked to the advanced analytics 
transformation programme, has successfully trained over 290 team members across the Group in 
the functioning of advanced analytics roles at OCTAVE and within the businesses. 

18 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
CHAIRPERSON’S MESSAGE
EMPLOYEES
The value creation process of the Group has 
been built around our loyal and committed 
employees, and I wish to acknowledge, with 
gratitude, the contribution and commitment 
of our employees during yet another year of 
many challenges.  
Over the years, we have attracted the best 
talent towards building a strong team that 
reflects the diversity of the customers we 
serve. We continue to engage and encourage 
our employees to perform to the best of their 
abilities through a performance-oriented 
culture founded on ethical and transparent 
behaviour, which, in turn, promotes 
sustainable and profitable growth. Our people 
have been the source of success of the John 
Keells Group, and, I believe, will continue to be 
a key differentiator going forward as well.  
The challenging macroeconomic conditions, 
notably an environment of high inflation, 
experienced during the past year have created 
significant hardships and uncertainty for 
people across the country, with the talent pools 
exploring alternative careers overseas, resulting 
in a substantial increase in migration. The Group 
is faced with similar challenges in some of its 
businesses as we continue to take steps to 
improve retention through various initiatives, 
while also focusing on enhancing the Employer 
brand of the Group via the launch of initiatives 
to make a meaningful, positive and sustainable 
difference to our people. 
The Group Executive Committee, in its efforts to mitigate hardships faced by the people as a result 
of the impact of rising prices, introduced a Temporary Crisis Allowance during the period under 
review for all eligible staff, which is set to continue for the forthcoming year as well. This measure, a 
significant step in assisting the employees during these challenging times, is intended to assist the 
John Keells family in bridging the gap in the costs of basic essential items and, I believe, epitomises 
one of the core Values of our Group - Caring.  
The Group conducted its periodic culture survey through the independent third party, Great Place 
to Work (GPTW), and is pleased to note that the index improved materially from the previous 
survey. Notwithstanding this improvement, the Group has identified several areas in which it can 
enhance its people experience, and, as such, put in place a range of initiatives across all sectors to 
drive specific employee experience related agendas.
The Corporate Governance Commentary and the Capital Management Review sections of this 
Report explain in further detail the best practices, policies and procedures that are in place to 
ensure that John Keells is ‘More Than Just a Work Place’.
ONE JKH – OUR DIVERSITY, EQUITY, AND INCLUSION INITIATIVE 
As we reflect on the past year, we are proud to have continued our efforts to create a workplace 
culture that is truly diverse, equitable, and inclusive. Launched in 2020, ONE JKH focuses on 
increasing female participation in the workforce, inclusivity of the LGBTIQ+ community, and 
increasing career opportunities for Persons with Disabilities (PWD). In 2022/23, new initiatives have 
been launched and ongoing initiatives strengthened. 
The introduction of 100 days of Equal Parental Leave was aimed at eliminating the discrimination 
associated with recruiting women, due to potential concerns about maternity leave. We are proud 
that the men in the Group, eligible for parental leave, are availing themselves of this opportunity, 
and hope that it will also aid the workforce outside of John Keells Group, by assisting their partners 
to return to their respective workplaces or join the workforce, following their maternity leave. 
The setting of the internal five-year goal of achieving 40% women in the workforce by the end 
of 2025/26 has already yielded results. As of 31 March 2023, the Group reached 33% female 
participation in our workforce from 30% two years ago, when we set this goal. Further to the 
launch in 2022/23, we continue to provide all female employees of John Keells Group with free 
sanitary napkins coupled with awareness sessions on menstrual health. We believe that this 
will assist to break the stigma around menstruation, address the negative impact on physical 
and mental well-being due to the inaccessibility to essential sanitation, and support to improve 
productivity of females in our workforce. 
In commemoration of Pride Month, in June 2022, a trilingual e-module was launched as an 
awareness creator to ensure that everyone across the Group understands the relevant facts and 
terminology in relation to the LGBTIQ+ community. The Group was also a sponsor of the 18th 
Annual Colombo Pride Festival, partnering with three events that focused on education and 
awareness.
In July 2022, to create a truly equitable and inclusive workplace, the Group launched the usage 
of Gender-Neutral terminology and created awareness on gender pronouns. This is not only 
an effective way to normalise discussions about gender identity and create an inclusive work 
environment for transgender and non-binary persons, but also to avoid masculine generic terms 
and, instead, use a suitable gender-neutral alternative. 
In January 2023, we launched our PWD policy which provides details of the disability categories 
structured in line with globally accepted categorisations that the Group will adopt going forward. 
We have identified job roles from each business unit that can be filled by those within diverse 
disability categories, with reasonable accommodation. While a few years ago, we commenced 
making our locations wheelchair accessible, as part of the supported employment strategy 
roadmap, we will continue to work on the infrastructure changes required to make our physical 
and digital spaces accessible to all.
The introduction of 100 days 
of Equal Parental Leave was 
aimed at eliminating the 
discrimination associated 
with recruiting women, due 
to potential concerns about 
maternity leave. We are proud 
that the men in the Group, 
eligible for parental leave, are 
availing themselves of this 
opportunity, and hope that 
it will also aid the workforce 
outside of John Keells Group, 
by assisting their partners 
to return to their respective 
workplaces or join the 
workforce, following their 
maternity leave.

19
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
GOVERNANCE
I am pleased to state that there were no 
reported violations of the Group Code of 
Conduct and Code of Business Conduct 
and Ethics of the Code of Best Practice of 
Corporate Governance 2013, jointly advocated 
by the Securities and Exchange Commission 
of Sri Lanka and the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of Sri Lanka. I also wish to affirm 
our commitment to upholding Group policies, 
where emphasis is placed on ethical and legal 
dealings, zero tolerance for corruption, bribery 
and any form of harassment or discrimination in 
our workplace and any work-related situations.
In affirmation of this commitment, JKH 
was ranked first in the Transparency in 
Corporate Reporting (TRAC) Assessment by 
Transparency International Sri Lanka (TISL) 
for the third consecutive year, with a 100% 
score for transparency in disclosure practices. 
This ranking is based on an assessment of 
corporate disclosure practices among the top 
100 companies listed on the Colombo Stock 
Exchange. 
During the year under review, several initiatives 
were undertaken to further strengthen the 
Group’s governance framework and controls. 
The Group continued with its multi-pronged 
approach to internal audits and process 
reviews by augmenting its integrated fraud 
deterrent and investigation framework to foster 
synergy and collaboration efficiencies between 
components that deliver governance and 
assurance and related services, in facilitating 
business strategies. In addition, the Group 
recorded the Policy for bidding on contracts 
and tenders, which entails a standardised set 
of guidelines for bidding, including to those 
of local and foreign governments and related 
bodies and further strengthened its Policy on 
gifts and entertainment to include a reporting 
and monitoring mechanism for all gifts or 
benefits received or given.
As a part of the Group’s ongoing efforts towards increasing emphasis on environmental, social 
and governance (ESG) aspects, the Group embarked on re-formulating its ESG framework in 
collaboration with an international third-party consulting firm, setting revised Group-wide ESG 
ambitions and translating such ambitions to ESG related targets. This exercise is expected to 
ensure enhanced alignment between the different ESG strategies of the Group’s business units, 
culminating in a holistic ESG strategy and roadmap for the Group. Select Group policies related 
to ESG areas were further enhanced in line with best practices advocated by internationally 
reputed institutions such as the Asian Development Bank and International Finance Corporation, 
particularly given their focus on development impacts and positive externalities. 
Further details on governance compliance and initiatives can be found in the Corporate 
Governance Commentary of this Report.
Integrated Reporting
This Report has been prepared in conformance with the Integrated Reporting Framework of 
the International Integrated Reporting Council. The Board of Directors and the Group Executive 
Committee are responsible for ensuring the accuracy and integrity of this Annual Report. We 
confirm, to the best of our knowledge, the credibility, reliability and integrity of the information 
presented, and, in this regard, external assurance has also been sought from independent auditors, 
as applicable. 
SUSTAINABILITY
This Report discloses the Group’s sustainability performance in accordance with the Global Reporting 
Initiative (GRI) Standards and details its integrated approach to sustainable business practices, its 
management framework and its overall sustainability performance over the reporting year. 
The Group continued its efforts to manage its Natural Capital through initiatives aimed at 
improving efficiency, conservation of natural resources and management of outputs such 
as emissions, effluents and waste in a responsible manner. Further, the Group continued to 
make investments in its Human Capital through training and development and ensured a safe 
working environment for its diverse workforce. Encouraging supply chain partners to advance 
their sustainability efforts and the work done with communities further enabled the Group to 
strengthen its Social and Relationship Capital. 
Upon completion of the ESG exercise referred to above, the Group’s alignment of different ESG 
efforts will be clearly defined through the framework and the Group’s ESG agenda including 
ambitions and roadmaps with short, medium and long-term goals on how these ambitious goals 
would be achieved, would be clearly stated. 
Given the higher operational activity compared to the previous year, in absolute terms, the Group 
recorded increases in emissions and resource usage. However, reflecting the positive results of the 
initiatives embarked upon in these areas on an efficiency basis, the Group’s carbon footprint per 
million rupees of revenue decreased by 29% and water withdrawn per million rupees of revenue 
decreased by 31%, respectively. In absolute terms, the Group reported an 8% increase in its carbon 
footprint to 103,597 MT, a 5% increase in its water withdrawal to 1,931,418 cubic meters and a 2% 
increase in its waste generation to 8,322 MT. 249 incidences of occupational injuries were recorded 
during the year. Employees were provided with an average of 26 hours of training per person. 
JKH was ranked first in the 
Transparency in Corporate 
Reporting (TRAC) Assessment 
by Transparency International 
Sri Lanka (TISL) for the third 
consecutive year, with a 100% 
score for transparency in 
disclosure practices. 
As a part of the Group’s ongoing efforts towards increasing 
emphasis on environmental, social and governance (ESG) aspects, 
the Group embarked on re-formulating its ESG framework in 
collaboration with an international third-party consulting firm, 
setting revised Group-wide ESG ambitions and translating such 
ambitions to ESG related targets.

20 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
CHAIRPERSON’S MESSAGE
The Group’s businesses continue to work towards the established Sustainability Goals to be 
achieved by 2024/25, which include renewable energy generation and plastic reduction. The 
performance against these goals is disclosed in this Report. 
Plasticcycle
The Group’s Social Entrepreneurship Project ‘Plasticcycle’, has been steadfast in its efforts to serve 
as a catalyst for significantly reducing plastic pollution in the country. Through its initiatives, 
‘Plasticcycle’ aims to reduce usage of single-use plastics, support responsible disposal, and 
promote recycling initiatives and innovation to support a circular economy. Despite the challenges 
posed by the economic crisis, ‘Plasticcycle’ has collected 127,000 kg of recyclable plastic waste 
since its inception in 2017/18. This has been made possible through a robust network of over 250 
collection bins, with a monitoring and reporting mechanism on the collections, which enables 
reassigning of the bins to new locations, targeting increased collections per bin.
For the year in review, ‘Plasticcycle’ further strengthened its collection network, by placing 
recyclable plastic waste disposal bins at certain exits of the Central Expressway in partnership with 
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC, Coca Cola Beverages Sri Lanka, the Road Development Authority and Eco 
Spindles. 
‘Plasticcycle’ also conducted customised awareness sessions for over 3,000 students and other 
target audiences with the aim of highlighting the challenges related to plastic pollution and 
educating and encouraging them on adopting the 4R’s – Refuse, Reduce, Reuse and Recycle with 
regard to plastics.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 
The John Keells Group’s deep-rooted commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is an 
integral part of our business ethos. We believe in proactively contributing to building a better 
future for all and ensuring that our efforts had meaningful and sustained impact during the 
unprecedented economic challenges which prevailed during the year in Sri Lanka.
Guided by our CSR vision of ‘Empowering the Nation for Tomorrow’, John Keells Foundation (JKF) 
continued to operate within the six focus areas of Education, Health, Livelihood Development, 
Environment, Arts & Culture and Disaster Relief. Our CSR initiatives remain aligned to national priorities 
and the Sustainable Development Goals as well as principles of the United Nations Global Compact 
of which JKH is a participant. CSR volunteerism by staff enabled them to contribute to community 
activities while benefiting from the resultant positive energy, team spirit and personal motivation.
Highlights of our CSR initiatives during the year are outlined below, while details can be found in 
the Group Consolidated Review section in this Report.
Crisis Response
The Group initiated a multi-pronged crisis response initiative to address the widespread socio-
economic challenges affecting Sri Lanka. Accordingly, the following projects were designed and 
implemented to provide both immediate relief as well as sustained empowerment-based support 
to affected persons under the broad pillars of food security and educational support.
Dry Ration Distribution
‘Keells’ and ‘Union Assurance’, in collaboration with other stakeholders, distributed a total of 35,940 
relief packs to disadvantaged families and communities across the country. 
School Meal Programme
Under ‘Pasal Diriya’ - an initiative by JKF in 
partnership with the Ministry of Education and 
Group businesses, to establish an ecosystem 
to provide nutritious school meals towards 
mitigating child malnutrition, increasing 
school attendance and improving mental 
well-being - a total of 125,977 school meals 
were provided to 2,951 children of 11 selected 
schools and 3 preschools. Through the ‘Keells 
Meal Donation’ crowdfunding initiative, over 
49,578 school meals were also distributed to 
995 children in 26 preschools. 
Home Gardening and Sustainable 
Farming
Local communities around Group businesses 
were empowered to improve the productivity 
of farms and develop home gardens through 
resources and training on good agricultural 
practices towards strengthening food security, 
improving nutrition, enhancing livelihoods and 
generating additional household income. The 
production of over 98,273 kgs of fresh produce 
was attributed to these efforts during the year.
Provision of Entrepreneurship Grants 
and Other Support
‘Keells’ provided microgrants to 400 
beneficiaries in over seven locations and also 
partnered with USAID and other stakeholders 
to support 21 small-scale suppliers of 
‘Keells’ through loans, grants and technical 
support and business mentoring to enhance 
productivity and competitiveness.
Access to Education
The John Keells ‘Praja Shakthi’ Digital Learning 
Initiative, in partnership with Deutsche Bank, 
Dialog Axiata PLC and John Keells Office 
Automation, was expanded to provide digital 
devices and data packages to 180 children. 
Back-end monitoring systems supplemented 
by cyber safety awareness were implemented 
to ensure online safety of beneficiary students. 
Additionally, JKF increased the quota of annual 
English and Higher Education scholarships 
awarded to deserving students. 
The Group’s Social 
Entrepreneurship Project 
‘Plasticcycle’, aims to reduce 
usage of single-use plastics, 
support responsible disposal, 
and promote recycling 
initiatives and innovation to 
support a circular economy.
We believe in proactively contributing to building a better future 
for all and ensuring that our efforts had meaningful and sustained 
impact during the unprecedented economic challenges which 
prevailed during the year in Sri Lanka.

21
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
Donation to the ‘Suwa Seriya’ 
Foundation 
JKH donated Rs.100 million to the ‘Suwa Seriya 
Foundation’ for the operations of the ‘Suwa 
Seriya Ambulance Service’, which provides 
free-of-charge lifesaving emergency medical 
assistance to the public across the country. 
The donation aims to support the ambulance 
service, which was facing financial constraints, 
allowing the service to continue operations.  
Project WAVE (Working Against 
Violence through Education)
Project WAVE continued to combat gender-
based violence (GBV) and child abuse through 
multiple public awareness and social media 
initiatives, including carrying out an interactive 
forum for lawyers, judges and police officers 
in partnership with the Bar Association of 
Sri Lanka, with a total reach of an estimated 
631,313 persons, training for 39 police officers 
of the Polonnaruwa Police Division, child 
protection awareness for 2,264 school children 
as well as internal awareness and training 
programmes for 2,216 Group staff.
Substance Abuse Prevention
Substance abuse awareness was undertaken by 
JKF with the National Dangerous Drugs Control 
Board, Humedica Lanka and local Government 
agencies to conduct customised awareness 
programmes for 379 school teachers, preschool 
teachers, parents and Government officers and 
through a social media campaign reaching an 
estimated 12,447 individuals.
John Keells ‘Praja Shakthi’
	y
The Child Learning Centre at De Mel Park 
Community Centre in Colombo 2, was 
established with ChildFund Sri Lanka and 
the Colombo Municipal Council while a 
series of 48 aesthetic workshops for youth 
was concluded with a successful exhibition.
	y
Women’s Livelihood enhancement 
continued with batik artisans in Hikkaduwa 
and paper product entrepreneurs in Ranala.
Upskilling Youth
	y
Under the long-term collaboration with the 
University of Moratuwa, 97 undergraduates 
of the Transport Management and 
Logistics Engineering Faculty underwent a 
customised English programme.
	y
738 students of the Universities of 
Ruhuna and Colombo benefited from 
soft skills webinars towards improving 
undergraduate employability. 
Environment Conservation
JKF’s conservation efforts during the year included:
	y
Planting of 15,315 seedlings of indigenous forest plants under the 3-year Cinnamon Rainforest 
Restoration Project – a collaboration between JKF, ‘Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts’, Ruk Rakaganno 
and the Forest Department - aimed at restoring a degraded 59-acre plot in Suduwelipotha Forest.
	y
Production of an awareness cum promotional video on the Rumassala Nature Field Centre 
under a long-term collaboration between JKF and the Central Environment Authority. 
Arts & Culture
	y
Kala Pola - The 30th anniversary of Sri Lanka’s renowned annual art fair of visual art showcased 
the works of 312 adult artists and 358 child artists, to over 33,000 visitors.
	y
Primary sponsorships/grants - JKF’s sustained support enabled:
•	
The Museum of Modern and Contemporary Art Sri Lanka (MMCA) to show the ‘Encounters’ 
exhibition to over 20,866 visitors and conduct capacity building for representatives of 18 Sri 
Lankan cultural organisations through MMCA’s first Museum Intensive programme with the 
Reinwardt Academy and the Cultural Heritage Agency in the Netherlands. 
•	
The Gratiaen Trust to conduct the annual Gratiaen Prize, the H.A.I. Goonetileke Prize for 
Literary Translation and initiate its 30th year commemorations with a literary day in Jaffna.
Group Volunteerism
During the year in review, JKF recorded a total of 4,856 hours of CSR volunteerism by 610 staff 
volunteers across the John Keells Group in respect of activities conducted by JKF. This number 
excludes substantial volunteer activities independently undertaken at a business unit level.  
DIVIDENDS
The Company paid a first interim dividend of Rs.1.00 per share in December 2022 and a second 
interim dividend of Rs.0.50 per share in March 2023. 
Your Board maintained the final dividend for 2022/23 at Rs.0.50 per share given the 
macroeconomic environment which could result in stresses on operating performance and 
cash flows and the pipeline of strategic investments such as ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’ and 
the WCT-1 project. Accordingly, the dividend declared for 2022/23 is Rs.2.00 per share. The final 
dividend for 2022/23 will be paid on or before 21 June 2023. The Group will follow its dividend 
policy which corresponds with growth in profits, whilst ensuring that the Company maintains 
adequate funds to ensure business continuity and to fund its pipeline of strategic investments. 
RETIREMENTS AND APPOINTMENT OF DIRECTORS
Mr. A. Omar retired from the JKH Board with effect from 27 June 2022, having completed nine 
years on the Board. I would like to place on record our deep appreciation for the invaluable 
contribution made by Mr. Omar during his tenure on the Board.
Ms. P. Perera will retire from the JKH Board with effect from 30 June 2023, having completed 
nine years on the Board. I would like to place on record our deep appreciation for the invaluable 
contribution made by Ms. Perera during her tenure as a Director.
As announced to the Colombo Stock Exchange, Dr. Sharmini Amrita Coorey was appointed as an 
Independent Non-Executive Director of John Keells Holdings PLC, with effect from 1 January 2023. 
JKH donated Rs.100 million to the ‘Suwa Seriya Foundation’ for 
the operations of the ‘Suwa Seriya Ambulance Service’, which 
provides free-of-charge lifesaving emergency medical assistance 
to the public across the country. The donation aims to support 
the ambulance service, which was facing financial constraints, 
allowing the service to continue operations. 

22 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
CONCLUSION	
The year under review was characterised by many unprecedented events in the country, 
economically, socially and politically. The corporate sector had to endure challenges unseen before, 
and I am pleased that the Group performed admirably during this tumultuous period. Whilst the 
country and our people showed resilience once again to emerge from this challenge to levels of 
normalcy within a relatively short period of time, an economic crisis of this proportion can be a 
catalyst for a major economic overhaul for the country and presents a significant opportunity to 
re-set and re-rate some of the country’s fundamentals. The resolve to continue to stay on the path 
of consolidation and ensure we address the calls for better governance, including public sector 
reform, will be pivotal to achieving sustainable growth. As mentioned before, the country has, 
possibly for the first time ever, put in place the fundamental framework of economic policies that 
will enable us to emerge from this crisis stronger than we were. As importantly, the ‘checks and 
balances’ required to ensure financial responsibility, through legislative means, are critical to ensure 
the framework for independent management of external financing is maintained, and we hope the 
Government enacts the relevant Acts expeditiously. Whilst Sri Lanka has commendably embarked 
on the hard road to recovery, it is imperative to sustain the reform momentum, rebuild trust in 
public institutions through greater transparency and accountability, and protect the livelihoods of 
those most affected by the crisis. We are hopeful that Sri Lanka’s international partners will continue 
to extend their support to help achieve this balance between critical reforms and ensuring that 
people’s safety nets and opportunities are not lost.   
As always, I am extremely proud of the manner in which our people and teams have rallied around 
to ensure we continue to prepare, pre-empt and navigate challenges successfully. Whilst the impact 
and outlook on consumer spend as a consequence of the fiscal and monetary tightening measures, 
including higher taxation, and elevated inflation are somewhat uncertain at this juncture in time, I 
am confident that our businesses have done their best to ensure that the momentum of business 
continues to its utmost potential as we serve all our stakeholders. While the macroeconomic 
conditions have improved significantly, we are conscious that the current impact on consumer 
discretionary spend on account of higher taxation, interest rates and policy measures to restore 
economic stability may continue over the next few quarters. The Group will continue to focus on 
productivity, cost optimisation and closely review all capital expenditure and new investments as 
a means to driving profitability. As we look forward to the years ahead, we pledge to play our part 
and take a proactive role in shaping and driving the nation’s economic recovery, as the Group also 
brings to bear our landmark transformative projects such as the ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’ 
and the West Container Terminal (WCT-1) at the Port of Colombo, which are both expected to 
commence operations towards the end of 2024. ‘Cinnamon Life’ will be the first integrated resort in 
Sri Lanka and is the largest private investment in the country to date, evidencing our commitment 
to nation-development, which remains strong. We continue to be guided by our vision to transform 
Sri Lanka through such landmark investments. That vision is fast becoming a reality as we look 
forward to launching operations of both these investments by the end of 2024. 
We believe that the convergence of an economic revival together with our own landmark 
transformational projects coming to life will create tremendous opportunities for the country and 
Group, which we believe will result in a ‘re-rating’ of our performance and investment thesis.
In conclusion, on behalf of the Board of Directors and all employees of the John Keells Group, 
I thank all our stakeholders for the support extended to the Group during the year. I also wish 
to thank all staff of the John Keells Group for their unstinted commitment, understanding and 
cooperation throughout yet another extremely challenging year. 
Finally, I thank my colleagues on the Board and the Group Executive Committee for their valuable 
guidance and support during the year.
Krishan Balendra 
Chairperson
23 May 2023
CHAIRPERSON’S MESSAGE
As we look forward to the years 
ahead, we pledge to play our 
part and take a proactive role 
in shaping and driving the 
nation’s economic recovery, as 
the Group also brings to bear 
our landmark transformative 
projects such as the ‘Cinnamon 
Life Integrated Resort’ and 
the West Container Terminal 
(WCT-1) at the Port of Colombo, 
which are both expected to 
commence operations towards 
the end of 2024. 

23
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
INVESTOR RELATIONS
GROUP HIGHLIGHTS
The ensuing section details the key highlights of the year under review, 
followed by an overview of the key verticals, its industry potential, 
outlook and the initiatives that are undertaken to drive growth. 
The JKH Investor Presentations are available on the Corporate Website to provide easier access and 
in-depth details of the operational performance of the Group.
https://www.keells.com/investor-relations 
FINANCIAL AND MANUFACTURED CAPITAL
Financial Highlights
Group (Rs.million)
2022/23
2021/22
2020/21
Revenue – consolidated 
311,478
244,294
145,446
Recurring profit before interest and tax (EBIT)
34,944
31,149
7,893
Recurring profit before interest, tax, depreciation and 
amortisation (EBITDA)
45,740
39,259
18,750
Recurring profit before tax (PBT)
17,141
24,432
3,498
Recurring profit after tax (PAT)
14,109
20,760
6,222
Net debt (excluding both lease liabilities and the 
convertible debenture liability)
111,029
77,611
48,709
Key operational and financial highlights during the year under review
	y
The Group reported a resilient performance during the year, amidst the unprecedented challenges 
in the operating environment, recording a recurring EBITDA growth of 17% to Rs.45.74 billion. This 
is despite the substantial EBITDA recognition of Rs.6.30 billion from the revenue of the handover of 
the residential apartment units and commercial floors at the ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’ in 
2021/22, compared with the absence of corresponding recognition in the current year.
	y
Sri Lanka has witnessed a strong turnaround from the onset of its worst macroeconomic crisis, 
and it is encouraging to witness the continuation of normal day-to-day activities in the country, 
supported by continued political and social stability.
	y
The Group’s Bunkering business recorded a significant increase in profitability driven by higher 
margins on account of the steep increase in fuel oil prices and volumes during the first half of 
the year, whilst the profitability of the Group’s Ports and Shipping business recorded an increase 
as a result of higher revenue from ancillary operations and the translation impact due to the 
depreciation of the Rupee.
	y
The Leisure industry group recorded a strong performance driven by the Maldivian Resorts and 
the recovery momentum in the Colombo Hotels and Sri Lankan Resorts segments, supported 
by a return to normalcy on the back of continued political and social stability during the 
second half of the financial year.
	y
The Supermarket business recorded a recurring EBITDA growth of 45% to Rs.7.46 billion due to 
an increase in same store sales driven by a combination of higher customer footfall and basket 
values on account of high inflation.
	y
Profitability in the Consumer Foods businesses was impacted by volume declines in the second 
half of the year, reflective of dampened consumer sentiments, and lower margins. With global 
raw material prices coming off its peak, the stabilisation of the country’s foreign exchange 
liquidity position and the appreciation of the Rupee, the pressure on margins has started to 
gradually ease from the fourth quarter of 2022/23 onwards.
	y
The Property industry group recorded a decline in profitability due to 2021/22 including 
revenue and profit recognition from the handover of the residential apartment units at 
the ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’, compared with the absence of any corresponding 
recognition in the current year. The recognition of revenue of all units sold at the ‘Cinnamon 
Life Integrated Resort’ was completed by 31 March 2022.
	y
The Financial Services industry group recorded a strong growth in profitability, where the 
Insurance business witnessed a growth in the life insurance surplus and gross written premiums 
whilst Nations Trust Bank recorded an increase in net interest margins and a reduction in costs.
Insight - Private Placement of 
Convertible Debentures to HWIC 
Asia Fund
In August 2022, the Company raised funds 
by way of a private placement of LKR 
denominated securities to HWIC Asia Fund 
(HWIC), a subsidiary of Fairfax Financial 
Holdings Limited, Canada.
	y
Rs.27.06 billion was raised by issuing 
208,125,000 Sri Lankan Rupee 
denominated unrated, unlisted, 
unsecured convertible debentures at 
an issue price of Rs.130 per debenture.
	y
The debentures have a maturity period 
of three years and will accrue interest 
at a rate of 3% per annum. 
	y
The date of maturity of the debentures 
is 12 August 2025 with HWIC having 
the option to convert each debenture 
to one new ordinary share of the 
Company during the conversion 
period commencing from 12 February 
2024 to 12 August 2025.
	y
The maximum number of ordinary 
shares that would potentially be 
issued under the conversion of the 
debentures would be 208,125,000 
ordinary shares.
Accounting Treatment:
	y
The convertible debentures were 
benchmarked against an equivalent 
plain vanilla debenture in order 
to segregate the liability (which is 
debt-like) and equity components 
associated with the transaction, as per 
the accounting standards. 
	y
The resultant liability embedded in the 
convertible debentures was recognised 
under non-current financial liabilities, 
whilst the residual of Rs.10.51 billion was 
recognised under other capital reserves. 

24 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
INVESTOR RELATIONS
GROUP HIGHLIGHTS
Annual Recurring EBITDA and Recurring PBT
Rs.million
2022/23
2021/22
2020/21
2019/20
Recurring EBITDA
Transportation
11,963
6,141
3,610 
4,375 
Consumer Foods  
3,184
3,485
3,318 
3,366 
Retail  
8,779
7,549
5,523 
5,108 
Leisure 
8,604
3,785
(3,588)
2,306
Property
(265)
7,867
(17) 
641 
Financial Services
6,451
5,024
3,645 
2,988 
Other, including Information Technology 
and Plantation Services
7,024
5,408
3,082
1,286
Group
45,740
39,259
15,572 
20,069 
Recurring PBT
Transportation
10,973
5,712
3,269
4,044
Consumer Foods  
1,140
2,319
2,304
2,284
Retail  
1,527
3,056
1,608
1,490
Leisure 
(382)
(1,512)
(8,546)
(1,597)
Property
(503)
7,650
(109)
535
Financial Services
6,400
4,995
3,360
2,755
Other, including Information Technology 
and Plantation Services
(2,015)
2,213
1,612
787
Group
17,141
24,432
3,498
10,299
Recurring Group EBITDA
Rs.45.75 billion
2021/22: Rs.39.26 billion
17%
Recurring Group PBT
Rs.17.15 billion
2021/22: Rs24.43 billion
30%
43%
Maturity Analysis of Interest Bearing Borrowings
0
20
40
60
80
100
Composition
(%)
Composition
(%)
Payments (principal and interest)
on interest bearing borrowings
(Rs.billion)
Payments (principal and interest)
on interest bearing borrowings
(Rs.billion)
CY24
CY25
CY26
CY27
CY28
CY29
onwards
Leisure
Holding Company
Retail
All other industry groups
Total (Rs.billion)
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
The following should be noted with regard to the illustration above: 
	y
Interest bearing borrowings does not include the convertible debentures issued in 
August 2022. The liability component amounting to Rs.18.38 billion is recognised under 
Non-Current Financial Liabilities. In the event the debenture is not converted during the 
conversion window, an obligation for Rs.27.06 billion will materialise in August 2025.
	y
The USD 225 million term loan facility at ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’, captured 
under Leisure, falls due for repayment in December 2026. Based on the structuring of 
the loan, ~75% of the loan is due for repayment in the final year where the intention 
and strategy would be to refinance a component at that juncture. 
	y
The USD 175 million term loan from IFC, captured under the Holding Company, falls due 
for repayment in equally amortising capital repayments from December 2024 onwards. 
	y
It is pertinent to note that the pressures on the exchange rate exposure arising from 
the ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’ project are mitigated to a large extent as the 
functional currency of Waterfront Properties (Private) Limited, its project company, 
is US Dollars. Accordingly, the risk is largely hedged ‘naturally’ given the expectation 
of foreign currency linked revenue streams. Similarly, at present, there is no foreign 
exchange translation risk on the IFC loan since the cash is retained in foreign currency 
at the Holding Company.
Insight - Capital Expenditure
Despite the challenging and unprecedented 
years, the Group has carried out significant 
investments which have continued steadfastly, 
maintaining the depth and breadth of the 
Group’s long-term investment strategy which 
is now coming in fruition.
The investments in recent years have focused 
on a refurbished portfolio of Leisure properties 
and the acquisition of a long-term lease on a 
new hotel in the Maldives. The Group has also 
doubled its store footprint in the Supermarket 
business to over 130 outlets and capacity 
and capability investments in the Frozen 
Confectionery and Insurance businesses. 
The Group is confident of its ability to fund 
projects, if feasible, and as required, thereby 
optimising equity returns in the long run. 
In addition to the routine maintenance capital 
expenditure, the key investments the Group 
will focus on in the near-term:
	y
Balance investment towards the 
completion of the ‘Cinnamon Life 
Integrated Resort’
	y
Investment towards the West Container 
Terminal (WCT-1) of the Port of Colombo
	y
Roll-out of the Supermarket outlets
	y
Completion of ‘Cinnamon Red Kandy’
Net debt (excl. both lease liabilities and 
the convertible debenture liability)
Rs.111.03 billion
2021/22: Rs.77.61 billion
The decline in recurring PBT of 30% in the current 
year is primarily due to the following reasons.
	y
The previous year included a profit recognition 
of Rs.6.30 billion on account of the residential 
apartment sales at ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated 
Resort’, as explained elsewhere in this Report, 
whereas there was no corresponding profit 
recognition in the current year.
	y
Increase in finance expenses due to the 
impact of significantly higher interest rates 
and the translation impact of the foreign 
currency denominated interest expense on 
account of the depreciation of the Rupee.
	y
A non-cash notional change of Rs.1.83 billion 
was recorded in the current year in respect of 
the convertible debenture issued to HWIC.

25
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
Industry Group-wise Quarterly Performance
The following provides an insight to the performance of the industry groups across the quarters. 
	y
Although there were no pandemic related disruptions in Q1, there were numerous challenges and macroeconomic pressures emanating 
from a precarious external financing position, including a severe fuel shortage, scarcity of essential commodities, food and medicines, and 
disruptions to power. Despite this, the Group reported a strong performance, which was a significant improvement over the comparative 
period of last year, with all businesses witnessing a sustained recovery momentum. The Group’s Leisure businesses, in particular, continued 
to record a significant turnaround in performance primarily due to the Maldivian Resorts. It should be noted that the performance of the 
comparative quarter was somewhat distorted due to the business disruptions on account of the imposition of island-wide travel restrictions.  
	y
Despite the challenging operating environment in Q2, the Group reported a strong performance with all businesses recording an increase in 
profitability, except for the Property industry group. The day-to-day consumer and business activity gradually reverted to levels of normalcy from 
late July 2022 onwards, supported by political and social stability and less disruptions on account of the macroeconomic challenges. It is noted 
that the comparative quarter continued to be impacted by business disruptions stemming from the Covid-19 pandemic. 
	y
Q3 witnessed the continuation of normal day-to-day consumer and business activity, supported by sustained political and social stability 
and less disruptions on account of the macroeconomic challenges. Whilst businesses witnessed a strong performance in contrast to the 
comparative quarter, cost pressures continued to impact businesses. The Consumer Foods industry group in particular noted a decline in 
profitability due to a contraction in volumes on account of price increases undertaken in several stock keeping units (SKUs) to address rising 
costs, mitigate margin pressure, and declining disposable incomes.
	y
The overall macroeconomic stability of the country improved during the fourth quarter aiding tourism and the Group’s Sri Lankan Leisure 
businesses. However, consumer disposable income contracted further with the increase in personal income taxes implemented from 1 
January 2023, which impacted the Group’s consumer focused businesses, in particular. 
Recurring EBITDA
Rs.million
YoY %
2022/23
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Transportation
 4,551 
 3,035 
 2,840 
 1,537 
345
153
103
(39)
Consumer Foods
 1,233 
 1,009 
 402 
 540 
288
68
(60)
(65)
Retail
 2,319 
 1,963 
 2,320 
 2,176 
48
48
2
(9)
Leisure
 1,869 
 1,005 
 1,898 
 3,831 
(388)
(2,278)
54
18
Property
 (140)
 (279)
 (312)
 466 
(126)
(122)
(144)
(91)
Financial Services
 877 
 1,104 
2,571
 1,899 
14
12
22
64
Other, including Information Technology and 
Plantation Services 
 2,623 
 1,457 
 1,746 
 1,198 
119
35
117
(49)
Group
13,333 
 9,294 
11,465
 11,647 
180
45
20
(37)
Group Revenue
Rs.million
YoY %
2022/23
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Transportation
23,969
20,233
15,335
14,108
343
161
102
27
Consumer Foods
7,657
8,457
7,298
7,856
107
85
34
8
Retail
25,624
25,835
28,040
27,349
27
24
8
15
Leisure
8,623
8,030
10,631
12,394
346
160
90
50
Property
590
695
402
436
(84)
(91)
(88)
(98)
Financial Services
3,356
3,970
4,873
4,003
11
2
1
2
Other, including Information Technology and 
Plantation Services 
1,695
1,845
1,659
1,674
71
84
88
44
Group
71,516
69,065
68,239
67,820
84
40
27
(11)

26 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
INVESTOR RELATIONS
GROUP HIGHLIGHTS
ECONOMIC VALUE ADDED STATEMENT
Employee Wages 
and Benefits 
Rs.23,529 mn
2021/22: Rs.17,335 mn
Payments to 
Providers of Funds
Rs.21,297 mn
2021/22: Rs.9,280 mn
Amortisation
Rs.5,003 mn
2021/22: Rs.3,546 mn
Depreciation
Rs.6,281 mn
2021/22: Rs.5,015 mn
Profit After Dividends
Rs.15,404 mn
2021/22: Rs.18,667 mn
Operating 
Costs
Rs.236,941 mn
2021/22: Rs.195,677 mn
Payments To 
Government
Rs.6,507 mn
2021/22: Rs.4,478 mn
Share of Results of Equity 
Accounted Investees
Rs.7,574 mn
2021/22: Rs.6,746 mn
Finance Income*
Rs.26,900 mn
2021/22: Rs.30,806 mn
Revenue
Rs.276,640 mn
2021/22: Rs.218,075 mn
Profit on Sale of Assets 
and Other Income
Rs.3,261 mn
2021/22: Rs.2,615 mn
Community 
Investments
Rs.293 mn
2021/22: Rs.159 mn
*Includes interest income from life insurance policyholder funds at Union Assurance PLC and foreign exchange gains.
Direct Economic  
Value Generated
Rs.315,254 mn
2021/22: Rs.254,157 mn
Economic Value 
Distributed
Rs.288,565 mn
2021/22: Rs.226,929 mn
Economic Value 
Retained
Rs.26,689 mn
2021/22: Rs.27,228 mn
Valuation Gain/(Loss) on 
Investment Property
Rs.879 mn
2021/22: Rs.(4,085) mn
Dividend
	y
The Company paid two interim dividends of Rs.1.00 and Rs.0.50 per 
share in December 2022 and March 2023, respectively.
	y
Whilst the Group recorded a growth in core operating profits despite 
the substantial EBITDA recognition of Rs.6.30 billion from the revenue 
of the handover of the residential apartment units and commercial 
floors at the ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’ in 2021/22, compared 
with the absence of corresponding recognition in the current year, 
given the macroeconomic environment which could result in 
stresses on operating performance and cash flows and the pipeline 
of strategic investments such as the ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’ 
and the WCT-1 project, the final dividend for 2022/23 was maintained 
at Rs.0.50 per share.
	y
Accordingly, the dividend declared for 2022/23 is Rs.2.00 per share 
[2021/22: Rs.1.50 per share].
	y
The Group will follow its dividend policy which corresponds with 
growth in profits whilst ensuring that the Company maintains 
adequate funds to support business continuity and fund its pipeline 
of strategic investments.
(Rs.billion)
(Rs.billion)
Distributions to Shareholders and Payout Ratio
Distributions to Shareholders and Payout Ratio
(%)
(%)
FY19
FY20
FY21
FY22
FY23
0
2
4
6
8
10
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
Dividend paid
Group dividend payout (%)
8.2
54
4.6
49
2.0
41
2.0
10
2.8
15
Market Information of the Ordinary Shares of the Company
2022/23
2021/22
Average daily turnover (Rs.million)
105
169
Percentage of total market turnover (%)
5.0
3.5
Market capitalisation (Rs.million)
193,888
200,813
Percentage of total market capitalisation (%)
5.0
5.2

27
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
GOVERNANCE
62
38
(%)
Shareholding Structure
Foreign
Domestic
99%
free-ﬂoat
99%
free-ﬂoat
ONE JKH – Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Initiative
Key initiatives during the year:
	y
Introduction of an equal 100 days of maternity and paternity days as parental leave at the 
birth or adoption of a child. The five days of paternity leave was enhanced to 100 days, 
ensuring equity, and recognising the importance of both parents’ roles in early childcare.
	y
The Group has set a goal of increasing women participation in its employee cadre up to 
40% by the end of 2025/26. In this regard, women participation as at the end of the year 
stood at 33% [2021/22: 33%].
	y
Adoption of gender-neutral terminology with the objective of avoiding word choices 
which may be interpreted as biased, discriminatory or demeaning and with the intention 
of being inclusive of gender non-binary persons.
	y
As a first step to developing a focused strategy around increasing career opportunities 
for persons with disabilities (PWDs), a tri-lingual survey to understand the needs and 
perceptions of PWDs was launched.
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Initiatives
	y
As a part of the Group’s ongoing efforts towards increasing emphasis on environmental, 
social and governance (ESG) aspects, the Group embarked on re-formulating its ESG 
framework in collaboration with an international third-party consulting firm, setting 
revised Group-wide ESG ambitions and translating such ambitions to ESG related targets.
	y
Select Group policies related to ESG areas were further enhanced in line with best practice 
advocated by internationally reputed institutions such as the Asian Development Bank 
and International Finance Corporation, particularly given their focus on development 
impacts and positive externalities.
	y
The Group continued with its multi-pronged approach to internal audits and process reviews 
by augmenting its integrated fraud deterrent and investigation framework to foster synergy 
and collaboration efficiencies between components that deliver governance and assurance 
and related services, in facilitating business strategies.
	y
The Group recorded the Policy for bidding on contracts and tenders, which entails a 
standardised set of guidelines for bidding, including to those of local and foreign governments 
and related bodies and further strengthened its Policy on gifts and entertainment to include a 
reporting and monitoring mechanism for all gifts or benefits received or given.
The current composition of the JKH Board
Designation
Gender
Age group
Board tenure
(years)
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
ED
SID
NED
40-50
51-60
61-70
<8
5-8
Below 5
Male
Female
INTERNAL GOVERNANCE 
STRUCTURE
Board of Directors and  
Senior Management Committees
Chairperson-CEO
Group Executive Committee (GEC)
Group Operating Committee (GOC)
Group Management Committee (GMC)
Sector Committee
Management Committee
Employee Empowerment
Board of 
Directors
Human Resources 
and Compensation 
Committee
Related Party 
Transactions 
Review 
Committee
Audit 
Committee
Nominations 
Committee
Project Risk 
Assessment 
Committee
Transparency in Corporate 
Reporting
JKH was ranked first in the Transparency 
in Corporate Reporting (TRAC) 
Assessment by Transparency International 
Sri Lanka (TISL) for the third consecutive 
year, with a 100% score for transparency 
in disclosure practices. 

28 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
INVESTOR RELATIONS
GROUP HIGHLIGHTS
NATURAL CAPITAL
INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL
1,931,418 m3
47%
51%
11,322 MT
909,583 GJ
19,018,103 kWh
13%
8,322,285 MT
46%
182.7 MT
Total water consumed across 
all business units
Percentage of treated water 
out of total water consumption
Percentage of recycled water 
out of treated water
Total carbon footprint across 
all business units
Energy used
Total units of renewable energy 
generated across all business units
Percentage of renewable energy generated 
out of total energy consumption
Total waste generated across 
all business units
Percentage of treated 
non-hazardous waste recycled
Total plastic waste collected
Performance
2022/23
2021/22*
2020/21
Energy consumption: non-renewable sources (GJ) 1
 386,837 
 301,172 
 216,253 
Energy consumption: renewable sources (GJ) 2
 124,228 
 127,825 
 132,706 
Purchased energy: national grid (GJ) 3
 398,518 
 390,654  *** 349,195 
Total energy consumption (1) + (2) + (3)
 909,583 
 819,651  *** 698,154 
Total energy consumption (GJ) per Rs.million of revenue
 3.53 
 4.49 
 2.75 
Direct greenhouse gas emissions - Scope 1 (MT)
 28,144 
 27,507 
 15,894 
Indirect greenhouse gas emissions – Scope 2 (MT)
 75,453 
 71,188 
 66,114 
Total carbon footprint (MT)
 103,597 
 98,695 
 82,009 
Total carbon footprint (MT) per Rs.million of revenue
 0.38 
 0.53 
 0.64 
Greenhouse gas emissions from combustion of biomass (MT)
 8,362 
 9,172 
 10,535 
Water withdrawal (m3)
 1,932,965 
 1,843,259 
 1,677,672 
Water withdrawal (m3) per Rs.million of revenue
 7.01 
 10.10 
 13.19 
Water discharge (m3)
 1,200,051 
 1,305,676 
 1,091,384 
Volume of hazardous waste generated (MT)
 401 
 337 
 279 
Volume of non-hazardous waste generated (MT)
 7,921 
 7,855 
 6,484 
Non-hazardous waste recycled/reused by Group companies 
and through third party contractors (%)
 46 
 32 
 22 
Significant environmental fines
Nil
Nil
Nil
	y
Work on a series of advanced analytics use cases in the Retail, Consumer Foods, Financial 
Services and Leisure industry groups yielded promising results with pilot projects 
delivering evidence of significant value that can be unlocked from translating advanced 
analytics insights into front line business interventions. Accordingly, tested use cases 
continued to be rolled out at scale.
	y
The ongoing assessment of the impact to the business of these advanced analytics 
solutions, post roll-out and complete business wide adoption, has provided strong 
evidence that the anticipated benefits that were evident through initial pilot projects can 
be sustained at scale, with iterations to adapt to a changing operating environment as 
and when required.
	y
‘Keells’ supermarkets ranked as the 
‘Strongest Brand in Sri Lanka 2022’ 
for the first time in its history and the 
‘Most Valuable Supermarket Brand 
2022’ by Brand Finance.
	y
‘Brand Finance Most Loved Brands 
2022’ in the Beverages and FMCG 
categories.
	y
Union Assurance was awarded the 
‘Best Digitising Life Insurance Sri Lanka’ 
award at The Global Business Magazine 
Awards 2022.
AWARDS

29
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
315,255 million
81%
Rs.397 million
Total CSR Spend
Total Economic Value Generated
1,553,971
Total people impacted
655,551
People benefited from 
Health-related projects
Sourcing from Local 
Suppliers
63
Number of Suppliers 
Engaged
220,394
People benefited from 
Crisis Response Initiatives
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL
Performance
2022/23
2021/22
2020/21
Community services and infrastructure projects (Rs.million)
397
97
51
Proportion of purchases from suppliers within Sri Lanka (%)
81
90
85
Community engagement (no. of persons impacted)
1,553,971
1,955,639
756,153
Sustainability integration awareness (no. of business partners)
201
89
72
Business partners screened for labour, environment and human 
rights (no. of business partners)
63
65
74
Proportion of labels carrying ingredients used (%)
76
76
79
Proportion of labels carrying information on disposal (%)
95
89
92
Proportion of labels carrying sourcing of components (%)
3
1
1
Monetary value of significant fines** (Rs.)
No 
significant  
fines
No 
significant  
fines
No 
significant  
fines
Proportion of businesses analysed for risk of corruption (%)
100
100
100
579,459
People benefited from 
Livelihood Development projects
4,132
People benefited from 
Education-related projects
92,570
People benefited from 
Arts and Culture projects
93.75 Acres
Total Land Area Impacted
*2021/22 has been restated
**Significant fines are defined as fines over Rs.1 million.
***Purchased energy: national grid and total energy consumption values have been restated
****Of the Group’s total employees, 683 are placed in the Maldives, with the remainder domiciled in Sri Lanka
HUMAN CAPITAL
15,415
Total staff members of the group
69%
Average employee retention rate
67%
33%
Gender ratio 
Male
Female
234
Total Number of Injuries
405,331
Total training hours
Performance
2022/23
2021/22
2020/21
Total workforce (employees and contractors’ staff )
 22,250 
 21,200 
 20,092 
Employees****
 15,415 
 14,700 
 13,889 
Outsourced personnel (neither staff employees nor  
seasonal workers)
 6,835 
 6,500 
 6,203 
Employee benefit liability as of 31 March (Rs.million)
 2,559 
 3,107 
 2,814 
Total attrition (%)
31
29
18
New hires (%)
64
76
47
Average hours of training per employee
26
25
23
No. of employees receiving performance reviews (%)
100
100
100
Incidences of child labour (below age 16)
0
0
0
Incidents of forced labour during the year
0
0
0
Rs.33 million
Total investment on 
training and development
26
Average learning hours 
per employee

30 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
INVESTOR RELATIONS
West Container Terminal (WCT-1)
	y The groundwork on the West 
Container Terminal (WCT-1) at the 
POC is progressing well with the 
entirety of the dredging works for 
both phases near complete. 
	y The contract for the quay wall 
construction, a significant component 
of the overall construction works, was 
awarded in October 2022.
	y Phase 1 of the terminal, comprising of 
a quay length of 800 meters as against 
the previous 600 meters, is slated to 
be operational by the third quarter 
of 2024/25. The remainder of the 
terminal is expected to be completed 
by the third quarter of 2025/26.
TRANSPORTATION
Industry Potential
	y
Ongoing capacity enhancements in the 
POC and shipping lines opting for ‘hub 
and spoke’ services will spearhead the 
thrust to establish Colombo as a leading 
transshipment hub in the region.
	y
Envisaged increase in bunkering market 
share driven by increased storage and 
infrastructure.
	y
Growing demand for logistics services 
through growth in inbound project cargo 
and other major industries.
The Port of Colombo (POC) is strategically 
positioned on the main East-West shipping routes.
Dar es Salaam
Lamu
Aden
Bahl
Gwadar
Karachi
Yangon
Chennai
Mumbai
Kochi
Mombasa
Kolkata
Chittagong
Visakhapatnam
Insight into Quarterly Performance
2022/23
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4 Full Year
SAGT volumes
(TEU ‘000)
439
440
416
408
1,704
Port of Colombo volumes
(TEU ‘000)
1,705
1,680
1,628
1,619
6,632
LMS volume growth
(%)
54
(2)
(8)
(0)
8
INDUSTRY GROUP HIGHLIGHTS
Strategy and Outlook 
Immediate to Short-Term 
Ports, Shipping and Bunkering 
	y
Volumes are expected to be insulated from macroeconomic disruptions given that a 
majority of its businesses have revenue models primarily driven by offshore markets.
	y
In Rupee growth terms, there maybe a negative base effect stemming from the appreciation 
of the Rupee in the current year as against the levels witnessed last year post the steep 
depreciation of the currency.
 Logistics and Transportation 
	y
The gradual removal of import restrictions and the normalisation of export volumes are 
anticipated to result in increased volumes.
	y
Given the increased airline frequencies into the country, this should bode well for more 
competitive fares and supply.
Medium to Long-Term  
Ports, Shipping and Bunkering 
	y
Anticipated growth in regional and global economies coupled with a rebound in the 
domestic economy is expected to facilitate a growth in overall volumes in the POC.
	y
Continue to explore opportunities arising from the POC, Hambantota and Trincomalee, 
particularly in relation to bunkering and storage.  
 Logistics and Transportation 
	y
Explore opportunities arising from the anticipated growth in regional and domestic trading 
activity, and ongoing infrastructure developments in the country.
	y
Optimise cost and operational efficiencies through emphasis on digitisation initiatives.
	y
Increased trading activity and investment in the tourism industry is expected to benefit the 
Airline segment.
Our Business 
	y
42% stake in SAGT – container terminal (capacity of ~2 million TEUs).
	y
Development of the WCT-1 (capacity of ~3.2 million TEUs).
	y
Leading bunkering services provider.
	y
One of the largest cargo and logistics service providers in the country.
	y
JV with Deutsche post for DHL air express, AP Moller for Maersk Lanka and Inchcape Shipping 
Services for IMMS.
	y
GSA for KLM Royal Dutch Airlines and Gulf Air. 
	y
Warehousing and supply chain management.
	y
Domestic scheduled and charter air flight operations.
Key Performance Indicators
2022/23
2021/22
%
2020/21
SAGT volumes
(TEU ‘000)
1,704
1,831
(7)
1,810
Domestic: Transshipment mix
13:87
14:86
13:87
Port of Colombo volumes
(TEU ‘000)
6,632
7,351
(10)
6,800
LMS volumes
(%)
8
3
(22)
Warehouse space under management
(sq. ft. ‘000)
317
337
(6)
337
Capacity enhancements in the POC - WCT-1 and ECT.
SOUTH HARBOUR 
DEVELOPMENT
CURRENT 
HARBOUR
SAGT
East 
Terminal
West 
Terminal
South Terminal
JCT
CICT
WCT-1
ECT

31
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
Industry Potential
	y
Per capita consumption of beverages at 14 litres, is below peer 
markets.
	y
Per capita consumption of ice creams at 3 litres, is far below 
developed markets.
	y
Bulk:Impulse ice cream mix in regional markets is highly skewed 
towards the Impulse segment, demonstrating significant potential 
within the Impulse category.
	y
Emerging ‘health conscious’ consumers and growing need for 
convenient and affordable main meal options.
Our Business 
	y
Strong market presence in Beverages, Frozen Confectionery and 
processed meats through ‘Elephant House’ and ‘Keells-Krest’ brands.
	y
Frozen Confectionery products including premium ice cream 
range ‘Imorich’ and the ‘Feelgood’ guiltfree frozen yoghurt range for 
customers seeking wellness and balanced lifestyles.
	y
A portfolio of CSD and non-CSD Beverages catering to a wide array of 
customers and island-wide distribution network.
Key Performance Indicators
%
2022/23
2021/22
2020/21
Volume Growth
Beverages (CSD)
(7)
18
(14)
Frozen Confectionery (FC)
(7)
17
(1)
Convenience Foods
(22)
12
(6)
EBITDA Margins 
Beverages and FC
10.8
16.8
20.3
Convenience Foods
9.0
16.1
19.0
PBT Margins
Beverages and FC
4.2
11.2
14.2
Convenience Foods
1.1
11.3
12.3
CONSUMER FOODS
FY23
FY22
FY21
FY20
FY19
0
20
40
60
80
100
62
68
70
70
71
38
32
30
30
29
Bulk:Impulse Volume Mix of the FC Business
Bulk:Impulse Volume Mix of the FC Business
(%)
(%)
Bulk
Impulse
100,000+
60
38:62 
2
Outlet reach
Ice Cream flavours
Revenue mix: 
Beverages (CSD): FC 
FY22: 42:58 
Frozen yoghurt flavours
14
CSD flavours
Insight into Quarterly Performance
	y
The Consumer Foods industry group recorded a strong volume 
recovery during the first half of 2022/23 with volumes exceeding 
pre-pandemic levels. 
	y
However, the profitability in the Consumer Foods businesses 
was impacted by volume declines in the second half of the year, 
reflective of dampened consumer sentiments, and lower margins. 
	y
With global raw material prices coming off its peak, the stabilisation 
of the country’s foreign exchange liquidity position and the 
appreciation of the Rupee, the pressure on margins has started to 
gradually ease from the fourth quarter of 2022/23 onwards. 
Volume Growth
2022/23 (%)
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Full Year
Beverages (CSD)
56
13
(19)
(40)
(7)
Frozen 
Confectionery 
31
6
(19)
(30)
(7)
Bulk
19
(6)
(25)
(37)
(15)
Impulse
65
30
(7)
(18)
10
Convenience Foods
14
(11)
(33)
(48)
(22)
50
100
150
200
250
300
Q1
Q4
Q3
FY20
FY21
FY22
FY23
Q2
Q1
Q4
Q3
Q2
Q1
Q4
Q3
Q2
Q1
Q4
Q3
Q2
Beverages: white reﬁned sugar (price per kg)
CSD PET bottle (price per unit)
Movement of Raw Material Prices of the Beverages Business
Movement of Raw Material Prices of the Beverages Business
Index: FY20 Q1 = 100
Index: FY20 Q1 = 100
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
Skimmed milk powder
(price per kg)
Ice cream:white reﬁned
sugar (price per kg)
Ice cream containers
and lids (per unit)
Movement of Raw Material Prices of the FC Business
Movement of Raw Material Prices of the FC Business
Index: FY20 Q1 = 100
Index: FY20 Q1 = 100
Q1
Q4
Q3
FY20
FY21
FY22
FY23
Q2
Q1
Q4
Q3
Q2
Q1
Q4
Q3
Q2
Q1
Q4
Q3
Q2

32 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
INVESTOR RELATIONS
INDUSTRY GROUP HIGHLIGHTS
RETAIL
Industry Potential
Supermarket Business
	y
Modern trade penetration at 16% is one of the lowest in the region.
	y
Growing popularity of modern trade as a result of:
•	
Convenient and modern shopping experience.
•	
Access to diverse categories and brands at affordable prices.
•	
Rising per capita income, rapid urbanisation and changing 
consumption patterns.
Office Automation Business
	y
Increased smartphone penetration in the country.
	y
Increased digital adoption within the country driven by smart mobile 
devices.
Our Business 
Supermarket Business
	y
131 modern trade outlets uniquely branded to cater to evolving 
consumer lifestyles.
	y
The state-of-the-art distribution centre (DC) centralising offerings 
across the dry, fresh, and chilled categories with a capacity for ~250 
outlets.
	y
Private label consisting of ~290 SKUs.
	y
‘Nexus’ - a loyalty programme with ~2.1 million active members.
Office Automation Business
	y
John Keells Office Automation (JKOA) is the authorised distributor for 
Samsung smartphones and leading global office automation brands.
Key Performance Indicators
Supermarkets %
2022/23
2021/22
2020/21
Same store sales growth
47.6
12.9
(8.6)
Same store footfall growth
28.3
4.5
(31.5)
Average basket value growth
15.1
8.0
33.4
EBITDA margin
7.5
7.8
7.6
PBT margin
1.1
1.3
0.8
The statistics on footfall and basket values are distorted in the short-term due to 
changes in shopping patterns.
The PBT of the Supermarket business was impacted by higher finance 
expenses due to the significant increase in interest rates and higher working 
capital to ensure continuity of supplies and minimising of disruptions. 
This has now stabilised with the business reverting to normalised levels of 
working capital, although interest rates remain elevated.
Office Automation %
2022/23
2021/22
2020/21
EBITDA margin
18.8
9.9
8.9
PBT margin
(8.2)*
(3.5)*
9.1
*Impacted by exchange losses due to the steep depreciation of the Rupee.
Source: Central Bank of Sri Lanka, Nomura Research Institute.
Source: World Bank indicators.
0
20
40
60
80
Modern Retail Penetration
Modern Retail Penetration
(%)
(%)
Singapore
Malaysia
Hong Kong
Taiwan
Thailand
Sri Lanka
0
20
40
60
80
Sri Lanka Urbanisation vs. Regional Peers
Sri Lanka Urbanisation vs. Regional Peers
(%)
(%)
Nepal
India
Myanmar
Bangladesh
Malaysia
Bhutan
Sri Lanka
Strategy and Outlook 
Immediate to Short-Term 
	y
Consumer discretionary spending is expected to moderate in the 
short-term due to a reduction in disposable income.
	y
Margin pressure is expected ease on the back of decreasing 
commodity prices, lower freight costs, improved foreign exchange 
liquidity, and availability of raw materials. 
	y
Capacity enhancements will be evaluated based on business 
growth and the evolution of the product portfolio.
	y
Advanced data analytics will be utilised to optimise promotional 
spend, distribution networks, and production planning.
	y
The hotels, restaurants, catering (HORECA) channel is expected to 
gradually recover in line with tourism recovery.
Medium to Long-Term 
	y
Domestic demand conditions are expected to rebound in 
the medium-term, driven by economic revival and improved 
consumer confidence.
	y
There is significant potential for growth in the consumer food 
products industry in Sri Lanka due to relatively low penetration 
compared to global and regional peers.
	y
Digitisation strategy will continue in the medium to long-term, 
focusing on advanced analytics for data-driven decision-making to 
optimise production practices, achieve cost savings, and identify 
growth opportunities.

33
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
Insight into Quarterly Performance
The statistics on footfall and basket values are distorted in the short-term due to changes in shopping patterns.
	y
The Supermarket business recorded a growth in same store sales driven by a combination of higher customer footfall and basket values due to 
high inflation.
	y
The average basket value (ABV) is derived based on the weight of purchase (WOP) and the retail selling price (RSP). Given the inverse relationship 
between the WOP and inflation, the decline in the WOP on account of reduced purchase of non-essential items due to notable inflation had a 
negative effect on ABV while this was more than offset by the significant increases in RSP which resulted in a net positive impact on ABV.  
%
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Full Year
Same store sales growth
54.2
73.7
40.6
30.1
47.6
Same store footfall growth
52.2
76.9
11.1
0.1
28.3
Average basket value growth
1.4
(1.8)
26.5
30.0
15.1
Strategy and Outlook 
Immediate to Short-Term 
Supermarket Business
	y
Performance largely insulated, considering that essentials and 
regular groceries constitute a large portion of a consumer basket. 
	y
The distribution centre is expected to contribute significantly to 
process and operational efficiencies. 
	y
Private label range and direct imports will be increased to offer 
customers better choice and value for money.
	y
The business will carefully evaluate and monitor outlet expansions 
due to increased construction costs.
Office Automation Business
	y
The gradual recovery in macroeconomic conditions is expected to 
drive growth in volumes.
Medium to Long-Term 
Supermarket Business
	y
Capitalise on the low penetration of modern trade in the country.
	y
Expansion of outlets in both urban and suburban areas through a 
mix of modular and standard stores.
	y
Leverage on data analytics for the development and 
implementation of use cases to enhance business performance 
and productivity. 
	y
Differentiate the shopping experience through its ‘fresh’ promise, 
service excellence and quality within five activity pillars; product, 
price, place, people and the customer.
Office Automation Business
	y
Underlying demand for office automation solutions and smart 
mobile phones to be driven by increasing commercial activity and 
an improvement in business sentiment.
	y
Increased potential given the rapid urbanisation witnessed in 
recent years.
LEISURE
Industry Potential
	y
Proximity to India and increased flight connectivity. 
	y
Infrastructure led growth driving MICE and corporate tourists. 
	y
Sought after tourist destination in the region, with increased 
popularity and recognition – centred around its natural diversity and 
cultural heritage. 
Key Highlights 
	y The Maldivian Resorts segment continued its strong 
performance with occupancies averaging over 90%, supported 
by arrivals from both traditional and new source markets. 
	y The Colombo Hotels and Sri Lankan Resorts segments recorded 
a gradual recovery, supported by return to normalcy on the 
back of continued political and social stability. 
Cinnamon Citadel 
Kandy 
Trinco Blu by 
Cinnamon
Cinnamon Grand Colombo
Cinnamon Lakeside Colombo
Cinnamon Red Colombo
Habarana Village 
by Cinnamon
Cinnamon Lodge 
Habarana
Hikka Tranz by 
Cinnamon
Cinnamon Wild Yala 
Cinnamon Bey 
Beruwala
Bandaranaike 
International 
Airport
Cinnamon Bentota 
Beach
Velana International 
Airport
Cinnamon Dhonveli 
Maldives 
Cinnamon Velifushi 
Maldives
Cinnamon Hakuraa 
Huraa Maldives
Ellaidhoo Maldives 
by Cinnamon

34 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
INVESTOR RELATIONS
INDUSTRY GROUP HIGHLIGHTS
Our Business 
	y
‘Cinnamon’, a well-established hospitality brand in Sri Lanka and the 
Maldives: 
•	
3 Colombo Hotels
•	
8 Sri Lankan Resorts 
•	
4 Maldivian Resorts
•	
Rooms under management - 2,112 Sri Lanka and 454 Maldives
	y
Diverse product offering based on ‘Inspired Living’. 
	y
Combined room inventory of 2,566 rooms under management in both 
Sri Lanka and the Maldives. 
	y
Land bank of 128 acres of freehold and 140 acres of leasehold land in 
key tourism locations.
	y
Leading inbound tour operator. 
Key Performance Indicators
2022/23
2021/22
2020/21
Colombo Hotels*
Occupancy
(%)
42
29
3
ARR
(USD)
64
70
64
EBITDA margin
(%)
7.0
1.5
(84.8)
Sri Lankan Resorts
Occupancy
(%)
41
32
16
ARR
(USD)
65
78
62
EBITDA margin
(%)
1.2
(7.2)
(140.6)
Maldivian Resorts
Occupancy
(%)
88
75
27
ARR
(USD)
360
333
349
EBITDA margin
(%)
32.5
34.8
(8.4)
*Both Occupancy and ARRs exclude ‘Cinnamon Red Colombo’ and ‘Cinnamon Life 
Colombo’. 
Margins in the Sri Lankan Leisure businesses were under pressure 
given the rising input and utility costs, as yields did not pick up 
commensurately since the benefit of foreign currency revenue was 
limited due to the gradual recovery of tourism.
The construction of the two 
residential and office towers are 
complete, and handed over.
Operations in 
the third quarter 
of 2024/25
‘The Offices at 
Cinnamon Life’
Hotel - ‘Cinnamon 
Life Colombo’
Car Park
Entertainment 
and Retail
‘The Suites at 
Cinnamon Life’
‘The Residence at 
Cinnamon Life’
Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort 
	y
Consists of an 800-guest room hotel, ‘Cinnamon Life Colombo’, 
16 specialty restaurants, 3 ballrooms, 7 meeting rooms, exhibition 
hall and a conference, along with many other hotel amenities, 
retail, and entertainment spaces. 
	y
Subsequent to the gazetting of the gaming regulations by the 
Government in August 2022, the Group is currently engaged 
in discussions with leading international gaming operators to 
secure the necessary international gaming expertise to operate 
at the ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’.
	y
Similar to the experience with integrated resorts in other 
Asian countries, the ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’ has the 
potential to transform Colombo as a destination for leisure and 
entertainment and lead to significant foreign exchange earnings 
for the country.  
Insight into Quarterly Performance
*Both Occupancy and ARRs exclude ‘Cinnamon Red Colombo’ and ‘Cinnamon Life 
Colombo’. 
	y
The Colombo Hotels recorded a strong performance in its 
restaurant and banqueting operations. Occupancies of the 
Colombo Hotels improved on the back of a gradual recovery in 
business travel. 
	y
The first half of the year was subdued due to the fuel restrictions 
and social instability witnessed in the country. The Sri Lankan 
Resorts segment witnessed a rebound in occupancies during the 
second half of the year driven by domestic travel and improved 
tourist arrivals. 
2022/23
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Colombo Hotels*
Occupancy
(%)
33
29
43
62
ARR*
(USD)
68
62
65
63
EBITDA margin
(%)
0
(4)
12
14
Sri Lankan Resorts
Occupancy
(%)
33
31
38
62
ARR
(USD)
66
57
63
71
EBITDA margin
(%)
(16)
(25)
(11)
33
Maldivian Resorts
Occupancy
(%)
86
86
91
89
ARR
(USD)
333
316
372
416
EBITDA margin
(%)
32
26
31
40

35
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
Strategy and Outlook 
Immediate to Short-Term 
	y
The current recovery trend in arrivals is expected to continue, 
considering the opening of the Chinese borders and the increase 
in frequencies of flights. 
	y
Given the proximity advantage and strong economic growth, India 
is expected to be a key source market.
	y
Comprehensive rate strategy to ensure profitable optimisation 
of returns; although margins maybe under pressure due to cost 
escalations. 
	y
The significant increase in airfares has exerted pressure on the 
tourism industry.
Medium to Long-Term 
	y
The prospects for tourism remain positive considering the diversity 
of the offering and the potential for regional tourism.
	y
‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’ to be a key catalyst for tourism 
given its unique offering in South Asia.
	y
Greater focus on asset-light investment models as a part of the 
strategy to enhance the ‘Cinnamon’ footprint. 
PROPERTY
Industry Potential
	y
An urban population of 17%, far below regional peers. 
	y
Emerging suburban multi-family housing market. 
	y
Increasing demand for mid-tier housing units within the city. 
	y
Port City Colombo project, positioning Sri Lanka as a regional 
financial and trade hub. 
	y
Increased demand for commercial space.  
Our Business 
	y
Projects developed under the ‘Luxe Spaces’, ‘Metropolitan Spaces’, 
‘Suburban Spaces’ and ‘Leisure linked developments’ verticals which 
cater to the luxury, mid-tier and suburban multi-family housing 
segments. 
	y
The development and sale of two residential apartment towers; ‘The 
Suites at Cinnamon Life’ and ‘The Residence at Cinnamon Life’.
	y
The development and sale/rental of units of the office tower, ‘The 
Offices at Cinnamon Life’.
	y
Ongoing development of ‘TRI-ZEN’, a ‘Metropolitan’ development 
based on smart living in the heart of the city.
	y
Ownership and operation of the ‘Crescat Boulevard’ mall and ‘K-Zone’ 
malls in Moratuwa and Ja-Ela. 
	y
Land bank: 
•	
Prime land bank of over 34 acres in central Colombo. 
•	
Developable freehold land of ~25 acres in close proximity to 
Colombo city. 
•	
Over 500-acres of scenic leased land with an 18-hole golf course 
with a developable land extent of ~80 acres. 
	y
The current high interest rate regime has resulted in a slowdown in sales, 
although ‘TRI-ZEN’s position as an affordable living solution with a Rupee 
pricing model, mitigates the risk of fluctuating exchange rates for buyers.
	y
The introduction of VAT of 15% on the sale of residential apartments 
and a SSCL of 2.5%, both of which are on revenue, further suppressed 
demand.
Units Sold
Units Unsold
'The Residence at
Cinnamon Life'
'The Residence at
Cinnamon Life'
65%
65%
'The Suites at
Cinnamon Life'
'The Suites at
Cinnamon Life'
59%
59%
‘TRI-ZEN’
‘TRI-ZEN’
74%
74%
Arrivals ('000)
Tourist Arrivals to Sri Lanka
Mar-18
Jul-18
Nov-18
Mar-19
Jul-19
Nov-19
Mar-20
Jul-20
Nov-20
Mar-21
Jul-21
Nov-21
Mar-22
Jul-22
Nov-22
Mar-23
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
0
20
40
60
80
100
Leisure - Occupancies
Leisure - Occupancies
(%)
(%)
Q1 FY19
Q2 FY19
Q3 FY19
Q4 FY19
Q1 FY20
Q2 FY20
Q3 FY20
Q4 FY20
Q1 FY21
Q2 FY21
Q3 FY21
Q4 FY21
Q1 FY22
Q2 FY22
Q3 FY22
Q4 FY22
Q1 FY23
Q2 FY23
Q3 FY23
Q4 FY23
Colombo Hotels
Peak of social
unrest in Sri Lanka
Sri Lankan Resorts
Maldivian Resorts
Sri Lanka travel restrictions

36 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
INVESTOR RELATIONS
INDUSTRY GROUP HIGHLIGHTS
Mall Occupancy (%)
2022/23
2021/22
2020/21
K-Zone Ja-Ela
82
82
82
K-Zone Moratuwa
99
99
90
Crescat Boulevard 
73
61*
71
Cumulative Sales (SPAs)
2022/23
2021/22
2020/21
The Residence 
151
152
140
The Suites 
115
115
111
Commercial Complex
4
4
4
TRI-ZEN*
655
652
311 
*Partial operations as ‘Crescat Boulevard’ was closed for refurbishments.
*The number of units sold at ‘TRI-ZEN’ as at FY23, FY22 and FY21 stood at 655, 659 and 
342 units, respectively.
Strategy and Outlook 
Immediate to Short-Term 
	y
Considering the steep increases in prices last year, including the 
significant increase in the costs of construction, the pricing of any 
new development will be less competitive than projects currently 
in development. Residential apartment supply is likely to taper as 
the commencement of new projects is likely to slow down given 
the uncertain and volatile costs and market conditions. 
	y
Challenges in labour mobilisation and brain drain may continue to 
impact construction activity.
	y
Exploration of investment opportunities in suburban areas of 
Colombo to enter the suburban market segment.
Medium to Long-Term 
	y
Monetise the existing land bank available to the industry group, 
subject to market conditions, through systematic development 
strategies to roll-out a robust pipeline of developments via the 
land parcels available. 
	y
Robust market for affordable, multi-family housing solutions in 
urban areas close to commercial hubs.
	y
Significant growth expected in the market for vertical and middle-
income housing due to high land prices and construction costs of 
single-family houses.
Industry Potential
Life Insurance Industry 
	y
Increased labour mobility is expected to increase the level of 
urbanisation in Sri Lanka, which is currently low compared to the rest 
of the world. 
	y
Under-utilised bancassurance and digital distribution channels, 
despite high bank branch density. 
Banking Industry 
	y
Industry loans and advances growth of 19% in calendar  
year 2022. 
	y
Advances in technology around customer experience, 
disintermediation, delivery channels, and process automations. 
Source: Swiss Re sigma No 4 /2022.
FINANCIAL SERVICES
(%)
(%)
Greater
Colombo
Singapore
Thailand
(Central
Bangkok)
Thailand
(Outskirts)
Malaysia
(Central KL)
Malaysia
(Greater KL)
India
(Chennai)
India
(Bangalore)
0
20
40
60
80
100
Apartments
Landed houses
90
10
95
5
80
20
60
40
70
30
50
50
55
45
65
35
Apartment Penetration in Sri Lanka in Comparison to Regional Peers
Apartment Penetration in Sri Lanka in Comparison to Regional Peers
Source: Company analysis.
Central 
Expressway
Kandy
Hambantota
Matara
Port City
Colombo
Southern 
Expressway
Katunayake 
Expressway
New Kelani Bridge
Outer Circular 
Highway
Expressways
Proposed Extensions
Ruwanpura 
Expressway
Investments in public 
infrastructure enabling better 
connectivity and mobility which 
contributes to significant land 
price appreciation.
0
1
2
3
4
Life insurance premium as a per centage of GDP, in the
South Asian region
Life insurance premium as a per centage of GDP, in the
South Asian region
(%)
(%)
Malaysia
Thailand
India
Vietnam
Indonesia
Philipines
Sri Lanka

37
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
Strategy and Outlook 
Immediate to Short-Term 
Life Insurance
	y
Focus on maintaining persistency of existing policies and 
strengthening its position as the second-largest new business 
producer in the insurance industry.
	y
Strengthening partnerships with leading banks to consolidate its 
status as a leading bancassurance provider.
	y
Will continue to monitor the domestic debt restructuring (DDR) 
process and potential impact on financial services sector. The 
business is confident in its ability to navigate potential impacts 
based on reasonable stress-tested scenarios.
Banking 
	y
Decline in interest rates expected with better clarity on DDR, 
leading to potential recovery in credit growth.
	y
Higher credit and market risk exposures remain due to elevated 
interest rates and the prevailing economic conditions.
	y
Continue to leverage on its digital platforms and channels, driven 
by increasing demand for digital infrastructure.
Medium to Long-Term 
Life Insurance
	y
Domestic conditions expected to rebound in the medium-term 
with a revival of the economy and improved confidence and 
disposable income after the fiscal consolidation process.
	y
Lower insurance penetration in comparison to regional markets, 
rising incomes, and an ageing population expected to drive 
growth in the life insurance industry.
	y
Utilise data analytics to gain insights for market evaluation, 
product development, and growth strategies.
Banking
	y
NTB will continue to invest in its digital infrastructure and 
processes to improve customer service, offer innovative solutions, 
and enhance operational efficiency.
Our Business 
Life Insurance 
	y
Operating footprint of 78 branches, excluding virtual locations. 
	y
Agency force of over 3,177. 
	y
Market share of ~12%. 
Banking 
	y
Branch network of 96 outlets, 83 ATMs and 85 CRMs. 
	y
Strong online presence. 
	y
Sri Lanka’s first digital bank, ‘FriMi’. 
	y
Largest issuer of credit cards in Sri Lanka. 
Insight – Impairment Provision at NTB
	y
An impairment provision of Rs.2.52 billion was made on its 
portfolio of Sri Lanka Government securities denominated in 
foreign currency for 2022/23.
	y
NTB has a relatively low exposure given that this investment 
portfolio accounts for ~2% of the Bank’s total assets as of 31 
March 2023.
Key Performance Indicators
CY2022
CY2021
CY2020
Life Insurance 
Premium growth
(%)
8
18
13
Market share
(%)
12
12
13
Life fund
(Rs.billion)
54.9
48.9
41.9
Capital adequacy 
ratio
(%)
194
228
31
Banking
Growth in loans 
and advances 
(%)
(3)
18
(7)
Return on equity
(%)
17.1
17.9
12.1
Net interest margin
(%)
7.0
3.9
4.1
Stage 3 loan ratio 
(%)
2.6
2.1
7.2 *
Capital adequacy 
ratio – total capital
(%)
16.3
17.5
18.3
*NPL ratio.

38 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
INVESTOR RELATIONS
INDUSTRY GROUP HIGHLIGHTS
OTHER, INCLUDING INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND PLANTATION SERVICES
Industry Potential 
Our Business 
Information Technology 
	y Increased digital adoption within the country and growing 
digital literacy. 
	y Investment in futuristic technology infrastructure. 
	y Businesses and operations are increasingly adopting digital 
practices. 
	y Competitive labour force and high-quality services to drive the 
business process management (BPM) industry.
Information Technology 
	y Software solutions and consultation services based on Internet 
of Things (IOT), Robotic Process Automation (RPA) and other 
digital stack solutions. 
	y Brand presence in Middle East and North Africa (MENA) and Asia 
Pacific (APAC) regions as a leading digital solutions provider. 
	y Strategic partnerships with SAP and Microsoft.
	y BPM service provider with the mandate of driving greater 
efficiencies for their clientele. Core focus areas of finance and 
accounting, payroll management and data digitisation.
Plantation Services 
	y Sustained growth in global tea consumption with growing 
demand for value-added tea. 
	y Anticipated growth in demand from Middle Eastern countries. 
	y Increased focus on existing as well as new markets, whilst 
capitalising on the unique flavour, quality and brand presence of 
‘Ceylon Tea’. 
Plantation Services 
	y Leading tea and rubber broker. 
	y Operates six of the seven factories owned. One factory is leased 
externally.
	y Produces both ‘crush, tear, curl’ (CTC) and orthodox tea. 
	y Manufacturer of low grown teas. 
	y State-of-the-art warehousing facility for pre-auction produce. 
Strategy and Outlook 
Information Technology
Immediate to Short-Term  
	y
Leverage on its strategic partnerships and capabilities to 
offer smart software solutions, especially in the areas of cloud 
computing, software as a service (SaaS) and automation. 
	y
Explore potential opportunities for managed services, 
outsourcing and offshoring given the ‘new’ ways of working.
	y
A key challenge for the IT businesses is attrition and talent 
sourcing, which is exacerbated by the ongoing macroeconomic 
environment.
Medium to Long-Term  
	y
Explore opportunities in cloud-based solutions and services 
across industries, with emphasis on cloud, SaaS, automation, 
advanced analytics, application modernisation, cyber resilience 
and platform/ecosystem thinking, among others. 
	y
Focus on delivering innovative consultative solutions and services 
across the five value stacks of ‘Strategy’, ‘Core’, ‘Cloud’, ‘Platforms’ 
and ‘Ecosystems’. 
	y
The low penetration of BPM services in Sri Lanka and the 
increasing demand for outsourced services, particularly non-core 
functions, are seen as positive factors.
Plantation Services  
Immediate to Short-Term  
	y
The previous fertiliser shortages caused by the ban on 
agrochemical imports in April 2021 have largely subsided, 
supporting an anticipated improvement in tea production.
	y
Tea prices in USD terms are expected to remain resilient in the 
short-term, despite increased tea supply, supported by organic 
growth and health-conscious consumers.
	y
Demand for tea may be impacted by a global economic 
slowdown.
Medium to Long-Term  
	y
Explore opportunities to capitalise on demand for low grown 
tea from the Middle East and Russia, and emerging tea drinking 
countries such as Germany and the United States.
	y
Adverse and unpredictable weather conditions caused by climate 
change pose a significant challenge for the business.
	y
The business will face increased regulations and controls on 
chemical usage in the tea plantation industry to meet maximum 
residue levels (MRLs) and ensure compliance.
	y
Optimise costs and improve factory utilisation.

39
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
TR NSFORMING
41  External Environment    47  Industry Group Review    81  Financial and Manufactured Capital Review
103  Natural Capital Review    114  Human Capital Review    121  Social and Relationship Capital Review
132  Intellectual Capital Review    135  Outlook    157  Strategy, Resource Allocation and Portfolio Management    165  Share Information

40 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
This Report is prepared in accordance with the Integrated 
Reporting Framework of the International Integrated 
Reporting Council with an aim of providing our 
stakeholders an insightful view of the Group's operations. 
The Management Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) 
section of this Report consists of the following sections.
Standalone Reviews of Each Form of Capital (Financial and Manufactured 
Capital, Natural Capital, Human Capital, Social and Relationship Capital and 
Intellectual Capital)
Discusses the forms of Capital available for deployment and how such Capital created value 
to stakeholders, at a Group level. It also reviews the performance of each form of Capital and 
the value enhancement/deterioration during the year under review.
External Environment
Entails a discussion of key macroeconomic fundamentals, which favourably or unfavourably, 
impacted the Group's ability to create value.
Outlook
Provides a discussion on the economic outlook for Sri Lanka in the short, medium and 
long-term, the impacts to the businesses and the overall business strategy of the Group. 
Strategy, Resource Allocation and Portfolio Management
Analyses the performance of the overall portfolio, the overall strategy and means by which 
capital is allocated for investments. The performance of the Group is also measured against 
the long-term strategic financial objectives of the Group.
Share Information
Entails a high-level discussion on the performance of financial markets, both globally and regionally, 
followed by a detailed discussion of the JKH share performance. Key disclosures pertaining to 
shareholders of JKH, as required by relevant regulators, is also included in this section.
Industry Group Review
Discussion on the operational performance coupled with detailed insights to the value 
creation process of each industry group.

41
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT
This section embodies the economic, political and legal backdrop 
the Group operated in, and the resulting impacts during the year.
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT
Global economic growth is estimated at 3.4% in CY2022, a notable 
slowdown against the 6.1% recorded in CY2021, primarily on account of 
a cost-of-living crisis on the back of persistent and escalating inflationary 
pressures worldwide which compelled Central Banks to adopt 
contractionary monetary policy stances. The Russia-Ukraine conflict and 
a resurgence of Covid-19 in China also exacerbated the impact on global 
economic activity.
(10)
(5)
0
5
10
CY2021 vs. CY2022 Economic Growth
CY2021 vs. CY2022 Economic Growth
(%)
(%)
CY21
CY22
Global
Economy
Emerging and
Developing Asia
Emerging Markets
& Developing
Economies
Advanced
Economies
Sri Lanka
6.1
3.4
5.2
2.7
6.8
4.0
7.3
3.7
(7.8)
4.4
Source: World Economic Outlook January 2023, International Monetary Fund.
OPERATING ENVIRONMENT 
Although there were no pandemic related disruptions during the year 
under review, as a result of the high vaccination levels in the country, there 
were a multitude of challenges and macroeconomic pressures emanating 
from a precarious external financing position, including a severe fuel 
shortage, scarcity of essential commodities including food and medicines, 
and disruptions to power supply. The financial year 2022/23 commenced 
with significant pressure on the Sri Lankan Rupee on the back of the free 
float of the currency in March 2022 and the significant tightening of the 
foreign exchange market which resulted in shortages of many essential 
commodities. The precarious foreign currency reserve position and the 
lack of liquidity in the foreign exchange markets prompted the Central 
Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL) to implement a debt standstill in mid-April 2022, 
thereby suspending the servicing of external debt, as an interim measure, 
while soliciting support from official and private creditors to restructure 
outstanding debt. In this backdrop, Sri Lanka moved to a pre-emptive 
default status, until such time progress is made on the debt restructuring 
process. This prompted a downgrading of the sovereign rating to restricted 
default (RD) or equivalent by all rating agencies which exacerbated the 
financial challenges within the country in the short-term, including a lack 
of foreign exchange liquidity in the domestic markets and challenges 
in obtaining bank funding lines. In addition, as a result of the volatile 
environment, tourist arrivals to the country, which was witnessing an 
encouraging post-pandemic recovery, recorded a sharp slow-down due to 
multiple travel advisories issued. 
The economic turmoil driven by the aforementioned macroeconomic 
pressures, further exacerbated by the continuing steep depreciation 
of the Rupee during the first quarter of the year, in particular, and 
unprecedented levels of inflation and interest rates locally, gave rise to 
social unrest and political uncertainty, culminating in the resignation 
of both the Prime Minister and the President within a period of two 
months in mid-July 2022. In line with the relevant constitutional and 
parliamentary procedures, a new President was appointed in July 2022, 
and thereafter, a Prime Minister and a Cabinet. 
The significant balance of payment (BOP) pressures with an acute 
shortage of foreign exchange liquidity, spiralling inflation and dampened 
economic activity amidst loss of livelihoods, large fiscal imbalances, 
unsustainable levels of public debt with high risk premia necessitated 
much needed corrective policy actions for the economy, which the 
CBSL and Ministry of Finance progressively rolled out throughout the 
subsequent quarters, as elaborated in the following section.
“The socio-economic crisis in 2022 underlined many lessons 
that the country failed to grasp, despite the recurrence of such 
macroeconomic failures throughout its post-independence 
history. This economic episode reiterated the essentiality of 
data-driven policymaking; devastating implications of ad hoc 
policy experiments; crippling welfare impacts of myopic populist 
policies; and the cost of policy delays, disregarding evidence-
based policy analysis, well-established economic fundamentals 
and expert opinions.”
Source: Central Bank of Sri Lanka, Annual Report 2022.
Socio-Economic Crisis at a Glance
Source: Central Bank of Sri Lanka, Annual Report CY2022.
Persistent Twin 
Deficits
External 
current 
account
Sovereign 
debt crisis
Budget 
deficit
BOP 
crisis
BOP
Low GDP growth over 
several years
Rating downgrades 
and limited access to 
foreign financing
High inflation and 
de-anchored inflation 
expectations
Increased monetary 
financing
Near-zero level of 
usable official reserves
Substantially increased 
inflation-adjusted 
poverty line
Domestic and forex 
market liquidity 
pressures
Scarcity of 
essential items
Falling tax 
revenue
Unsustainable 
public debt
Increase of global food 
and energy prices
Power cuts, fuel and 
gas shortages
Heightened social 
unrest and political 
upheaval
Ban on the 
importation of  
non-organic fertiliser
Low earnings from 
tourism and workers’ 
remittances
Misaligned 
exchange rate
Dual Crises

42 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT
In September 2022, Sri Lanka reached a 
staff level agreement on an Extended Fund 
Facility (EFF) arrangement of ~USD 3 billion 
with the International Monetary Fund (IMF), 
subject to Sri Lanka’s meeting a series of 
conditions that included tightening its fiscal 
and monetary policies, public sector reforms 
and restructuring of debt with its main 
international creditors. 
To address the macroeconomic imbalances and 
ensure public debt sustainability, the Government 
implemented a progressive economic reform 
programme that included several difficult, 
but much required, measures to revive the 
economy and overcome the worst economic 
crisis faced by the country. In terms of monetary 
policy actions, the CSBL undertook significant 
policy rate hikes to curtail spiralling inflation 
and support the currency. On the fiscal front, 
significant increases in both direct and indirect 
tax rates were announced. Measures such as fuel 
pricing adjustments and revisions to increase 
electricity tariffs to have market reflective pricing 
mechanisms to reduce the cost of subsidies 
to the Government were also rolled out. A fuel 
rationing scheme was successfully implemented 
to ensure an equitable and consistent distribution 
across the country, to address the fuel shortage. 
The reduction in consumption of fuel due to 
these actions, together with the drop in global 
fuel and commodity prices also created some 
space in terms of funding other critical import 
requirements. 
The deteriorating macroeconomic conditions 
coupled with the rising costs of living also 
resulted in increased migration, particularly in 
younger segments of the workforce. Sri Lanka 
recorded 311,269 persons leaving the country 
in CY2022, the highest recorded in history.
With the objective of promoting a more 
progressive tax structure and with the aim of 
increasing the proportion of direct taxes to 
total taxes, the Government enacted the Inland 
Revenue (Amendment) Act. No. 45 of 2022 in 
December 2022, which significantly increased  
the income tax rates applicable for individuals 
and corporates and also curtailed exemptions 
provided under the Inland Revenue Act. 
Key Fiscal Policy Measures Implemented 
	y
Standard income tax rate was increased to 30% from 24%, effective 1 October 2022.
	y
Exemptions and concessionary tax rates of 14% and 18% applicable on identified gains 
and profits and on select industries, were increased to 30% effective 1 October 2022.
	y
Capital gain tax (CGT) applicable on the realisation of investment assets was increased 
from 10% to 30%, effective 1 October 2022.
	y
Value added tax (VAT) was increased to 15%, effective 1 September 2022. 
	y
Social security contribution levy (SSCL), a revenue based tax, of 2.5% was introduced with 
effect from 1 October 2022 on companies where annual revenue exceeds Rs.120 million. 
This tax is also payable on value of imports.
	y
Excise duties on cigarettes, alcoholic beverages, and petroleum products were increased 
effective January 2023. 
	y
Revised the ports and airports development levy (PAL) for several imported items.
	y
Personal income tax - a mandatory advance payment of income tax (APIT) system was 
reintroduced with a concurrent reduction in personal allowances and increases in the 
progressive personal income tax rates up to 36%, as against the previous maximum of 
18%, including narrowing of the slabs at which the progressive rates were applied.
After nearly a year of discussions, Sri Lanka received the much-anticipated approval from the 
Executive Board of the IMF for the EFF arrangement of ~USD 3 billion in March 2023 with the aim 
of restoring macroeconomic stability and debt sustainability. In April 2023, Sri Lanka received the 
initial tranche of ~USD 333 million. 
With the implementation of the various policy reforms and actions, the domestic economic 
environment, particularly the foreign exchange liquidity position in the country, witnessed an 
improvement from the peak stresses witnessed in the first and second quarters of the financial 
year. The securing of the IMF bailout package further reinforced the recovery momentum and 
overall confidence levels of the country, supported by political and social stability and significantly 
less disruptions on account of the macroeconomic challenges. The improving trade balance in 
the country and increases in tourism receipts and foreign currency remittances resulted in strong 
net inflows into the country from the fourth quarter onwards. With the banking sector clearing 
many of the backlogs and liquidity imbalances stemming from the sharp devaluation of the 
Rupee in the first half of the calendar year, the foreign currency liquidity position has reverted to 
normalcy, supported by lower imports and the suspension on servicing of foreign currency debts. 
These impacts, together with the impending EFF announcement resulted in the Sri Lankan Rupee 
witnessing an appreciation of ~10% in March 2023, which enabled the CBSL to remove some 
restrictions which were implemented in the market. Tourist arrivals to the country, which is a key 
catalyst to drive the recovery of the economy particularly in the context of the positive impact it 
will have on foreign exchange earnings, have also witnessed a gradual month-on-month recovery, 
although still significantly below pre-pandemic levels.
Whilst challenges pertaining to the sovereign credit rating and related financial challenges in 
the country, persist, the severe pressures on the domestic business environment as a result of 
the external financing and liquidity pressures have now eased, enabling a normal operating 
environment. The Group is confident that Sri Lanka is on a path to recovery, given the many 
corrective policy measures and fiscal consolidation actions implemented, particularly, if these 
measures continue to be in place and sustained over a period of time. The recent approval of the 
IMF EFF arrangement to support the country’s efforts to stabilise its economy is also a significant 
boost of confidence and a positive signal to external stakeholders. 
Refer Outlook for a detailed discussion on the short and long-term outlook for the macroeconomic 
environment, including on the Government’s economic reform programme, the resultant impacts on the 
industries the Group operates in and the envisaged performance of Group businesses. 
The Group is confident that Sri 
Lanka is on a path to recovery, 
given the many corrective policy 
measures and fiscal consolidation 
actions implemented, 
particularly, if these measures 
continue to be in place and 
sustained over a period of time.

43
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
The Sri Lankan economy, based on GDP at constant (2015) market 
prices, contracted by 7.8% in CY2022, compared to the 3.5% growth 
recorded in the previous year.
Cause
The economic slowdown was driven by a contraction across all 
three sectors – agriculture, industry, and services. The agriculture 
sector contracted by 4.6% in 2022, compared to 2021, mainly due 
to the severe shortage resulting from the import ban of chemical 
fertiliser and other agrochemicals, the rising cost of raw materials 
and supply chain disruptions. The 16.0% contraction in the industry 
sector was driven by weakened performance of the construction 
and manufacturing sub-sectors on the back of a stoppage of many 
public sector construction projects, severe raw material shortages 
and rising input costs. Impacts were also exacerbated by tighter 
monetary policy conditions and the energy crisis. The services 
sector recorded a contraction of 2.0%, driven by reduced trade, 
financial services, and real estate activities during the year. 
In nominal terms, the economy recorded an expansion of 37.2% 
in CY2022 driven by spiralling inflation. Consumption expenditure 
expanded by 34.3% in CY2022 [CY2021: expansion of 8.4%] due to 
the price effect, largely contributing to the aforementioned overall 
nominal growth of the economy.
Impact to the John Keells Group
Despite the challenging environment, the Group recorded a strong 
growth in cash profits during the year. Whilst the impacts were 
more pronounced in the first quarter with significant challenges 
to businesses due to numerous disruptions on account of 
supply chain disruptions and a decline in overall activity, activity 
noted an improvement across the quarters in tandem with the 
macroeconomy, thereby reaching levels of normalcy towards 
the fourth quarter, other than for the Group’s consumer facing 
businesses. Given the volatile nature of economic conditions, 
businesses continued to place emphasis on reviewing expansion 
plans while all non-essential capex was curtailed. 
The consumer confidence indices of the Institute for Health 
Policy noted significant improvements during the year, although 
all remain at pessimistic levels. The indices range from zero to 
a potential maximum 100, with levels below 50 indicating net 
pessimism.
	y
The Index of Consumer Sentiment (ICS), the broadest measure 
of the public’s view on their personal economic status and the 
national economy increased from 5 points in April 2022 to 16 
points by March 2023. 
	y
The Index of Consumer Expectation (ICE), a measure of 
perceptions about the future, improved from 4 points in April 
2022 to 22 points in March 2023.
	y
The Index of Consumer Conditions (ICC), a measure of 
perceptions about current conditions increased marginally from 
7 points in April 2022 to 8 points in March 2023.
Cause
Consumer sentiment noted a steep decline from February 2022 
onwards, on the back of the fuel and power crisis, the steep 
depreciation of the Rupee, increased impacts from the foreign 
exchange shortage and the socio-political crisis. The declining 
trend noted a reversal following the change in Government, and 
thereafter a gradual improvement in line with the macroeconomic 
reforms and actions rolled out. The IMF funding agreement with 
Sri Lanka which was approved in March 2023 coupled with other 
associated positive economic signals also influenced public 
perceptions positively. However, the impact and outlook on 
consumer spend on account of the fiscal and monetary tightening 
measures, including higher taxation, and elevated inflation are 
somewhat uncertain. 
Impact to the John Keells Group
The decline in consumer sentiment was mirrored through Group 
performance, particularly the Group’s consumer facing businesses. 
Lacklustre sentiment during the year under review impacted 
the demand for products and sales in the Frozen Confectionery, 
Beverages, Convenience Foods and Supermarket businesses in the 
second half of the financial year. 
KEY MACROECONOMIC VARIABLES AFFECTING THE GROUP
GDP Growth
Consumer Confidence
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
(Index)
Apr 22
May 22
Jun 22
Jul 22
Aug 22
Sep 22
Oct 22
Nov 22
Dec 22
Jan 23
Feb 23
Mar 23
ICS (Index of Consumer Setiment)
ICE (Index of Consumer Expectations)
ICS (Index of Current Conditions)
0
3,000
6,000
9,000
12,000
15,000
CY18
2.3
(0.2)
(4.6)
3.5
(7.8)
CY19
CY20
CY21
CY22
Agriculture
Industry
Services
GDP Growth 
(Rs.billion)
(%)
(8)
(6)
(4)
(2)
0
2
4
7,099
7,307
3,934
950
7,167
3,725
941
7,414
3,938
950
7,265
3,310
907
4,101
946

44 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT
Year-on-year headline inflation, based on the NCPI, was 
49.2% in March 2023 compared to 33.8% in April 2022.
Cause
As per the IMF, global inflation surged to 8.8% in CY2022 
driven by the delayed effects of the dovish monetary 
and fiscal policy response to the Covid-19 pandemic, 
commodity shortages, supply chain disruptions, capacity 
limitations and the Russia-Ukraine War. General price 
levels in Sri Lanka, as demonstrated through headline 
and core inflation recorded a significant increase during 
the year. Reduced agricultural production on the back of 
the lagged effect of the ban on imported fertiliser which 
impacted supply of crops, price hikes in food, energy, 
and transport sectors stemming from supply disruptions, 
rapid adjustments to administered prices, the marked 
depreciation of the Rupee in March 2022, and aggregate 
demand pressures owing to the lagged impact of 
monetary accommodation undertaken over the past 
few years coupled with a myriad of vulnerabilities that 
emanated from global sources drove inflation. However, 
inflation noted a gradual slowdown in the second half 
considering a significant portion of inflation was driven 
by the currency adjustment which was largely one-off 
during the early part of the financial year.
Impact to the John Keells Group
On the demand side, significant inflationary pressure 
during the year under review adversely impacted 
purchasing power of consumers which had negative 
impacts on the Group’s consumer facing businesses. 
The shift in demand for cheaper alternatives or smaller 
pack sizes had multiple implications across the Group, 
including creating opportunities in some segments.
Inflationary impacts also impacted the cost base of the 
Group, which resulted in an erosion of margins. This 
was evident across a majority of Group businesses. The 
gradual tapering of inflation towards the latter end of 
the year under review, reduction in global commodity 
prices and a less disruptive operating environment are 
envisaged to ease the pressure on margins, particularly 
in tandem with the depletion of raw material inventory 
acquired at higher costs.
Inflation
Apr 22
May 22
Jun 22
Jul 22
Aug 22
Sep 22
Oct 22
Nov 22
Dec 22
Jan 23
Feb 23
Mar 23
FY23 (CCPI)
FY23 (NCPI)
FY22 (CCPI)
FY22 (NCPI)
(%)
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
Gross official reserves declined to USD 1.9 billion as at December 2022, in 
comparison to USD 3.1 billion recorded in the previous year. However, official 
reserves noted an improvement thereafter, with Sri Lanka’s official reserve assets 
at USD 2.7 billion as at April 2023. The reserves as at Dec 2022 and Apr 2023 
included the swap facility from the People’s Bank of China equivalent to ~USD 
1.4 billion, which is subject to conditionalities on its usability. 
Outstanding central Government debt from foreign sources increased to 
51.6% of GDP as opposed to 37.0% in CY2021.
Cause
Sri Lanka encountered significant balance of payment pressures due to limited 
foreign financial inflows, depleted gross official reserves, the steep depreciation 
of the Rupee and shortages in foreign exchange liquidity in the domestic market, 
among others. In response, various policy measures were implemented to curb 
foreign exchange outflows and incentivise inflows, including suspension of 
servicing of external debt for an interim period from mid-April 2022, temporary 
suspension of certain imports and payment terms and limitations on foreign 
exchange outflows. Targeted incentives were also introduced to encourage 
workers’ remittances and foreign inflows. Such interventions induced a 
contraction in the trade deficit towards the latter half of the year, on the back of 
reduced import expenditure and robust export earnings. Accordingly, the current 
account deficit narrowed to 1.9% of GDP in 2022 from 3.7% in 2021. 
Although some net foreign investment inflows into the Colombo Stock 
Exchange and Government securities market were noted during the year, 
inflows to the financial account remained modest. As of end-CY2022, Sri 
Lanka’s total external debt stood at USD 49.7 billion, compared to USD 51.8 
billion recorded in end-CY2021, reflecting the impact of limited access to 
foreign funding sources. 
Impact to the John Keells Group
The Group adopted prudent measures, as and when required, to manage 
the impacts arising from liquidity constraints and currency depreciation by 
matching liabilities with corresponding foreign currency inflows to the extent 
possible. Operations of businesses with foreign currency obligations such as in 
the Consumer Foods, Retail and Property industry groups were impacted more 
severely, although the strong balance sheet of the Group and cash reserves 
aided in navigating the year under review. 
Cash flow management remained a key area of focus for the Group, given 
the supply chain disruptions, foreign exchange liquidity concerns and limited 
market credit which materialised as a result of the BOP crisis. Concerns 
emanating from the sovereign downgrade, including suppliers curtailing 
extended credit, further increased the funding requirements of the Group.
Balance of Payment
Trade Balance
(USD billion)
(12)
(10)
(8)
(6)
(4)
(2)
0
2
CY18
(10.3)
(8.0)
(6.0)
(8.1)
(5.2)
(1.5)
(2.8)
(1.2)
(2.3)
(3.3)(4.0)
(2.8)
(1.8)
0.4
(1.1)
CY19
CY20
CY21
CY22
Current Account Balance
Overall Balance

45
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
2022
2023
The external sector faced 
unprecedented challenges in CY2022
INSIGHTS
Source: Central Bank of Sri Lanka, Annual Report 
CY2022.
Refer the Industry Group Review of the Leisure 
industry group for a detailed discussion on the 
tourism sector.
07 Mar
Allowed a 
measured 
adjustment in the 
exchange rate
06 May
Restrictions on 
payment terms 
for imports
Introduction of 
margin deposit 
requirement
01 Sep
Reaching IMF staff 
level agreement
20 Mar
Executive Board 
approval for 
the IMF-EFF
12 Apr
Announcement 
of external debt 
standstill
13 May
Commencement 
of daily exchange 
rate guidance 
with a band
23 Aug
Temporary 
suspension of 
selected imports
07 Mar
Revocation of 
exchange rate 
guidance and 
mandatory 
forex sales 
requirement by 
banks
The average LKR/USD exchange rate in 2022/23 based on the mid exchange rates published 
by the CBSL, stood at Rs.358.05 in contrast to Rs.205.10 in 2021/22. 
Cause
The Rupee recorded a steep depreciation immediately preceding the start of the financial 
year, with the exchange rate increasing from Rs.201.46 in January 2022 to Rs.255.81 in 
March 2022. The pressure on the Rupee continued during the year with the rate peaking at 
~Rs.360.00, with significant volatility during certain periods of the financial year. The foreign 
exchange market was largely inactive and illiquid during the first half of the financial year 
amidst significant foreign exchange shortages and macroeconomic uncertainty. However, the 
Rupee noted a gradual strengthening towards the fourth quarter of the year under review, 
driven by an improvement in the trade surplus given the sharp contraction of imports due 
to the contractionary fiscal and monetary policy measures adopted in the country and the 
continuation of import restrictions at the time. Steady foreign currency inflows to the services 
sector, workers’ remittances, and financial flows to portfolio investments, as well as the return 
of market confidence with the finalisation of the IMF-EFF arrangement, aided this recovery in 
early March 2023. 
Impact to the John Keells Group
The depreciation of the Rupee had a positive impact on businesses having USD denominated 
income streams, particularly in the Leisure industry group and the Ports and Shipping business.
The Holding Company has foreign currency cash holdings earmarked for equity infusions to the 
‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’ project and funds raised for the Group’s investment pipeline 
via the IFC long-term loan facility, the private placement of ordinary shares to ADB and the 
issue of convertible debentures to HWIC Asia Fund. As a result, the Holding Company recorded 
significant foreign exchange gains on its net USD cash holdings. The steep depreciation of the 
Rupee resulted in a notable translation impact on the Group’s foreign currency denominated 
liabilities and related payments, including the IFC Loan, notwithstanding the partial hedge 
against foreign currency denominated assets.
The depreciation also contributed to a significant increase in costs of imported raw material and 
goods which negatively impacted the cost base on the Group. This was more pronounced in 
the Consumer Foods business which took proactive steps to mitigate exchange rate risks, where 
possible.
At a Group level, the translation risk on foreign currency debt is largely hedged ‘naturally’ as a 
result of the conscious strategy of maintaining USD cash balances at the Holding Company 
whilst also ensuring obligations can be managed through USD denominated revenue streams. 
The exchange rate exposure arising from the ‘Cinnamon Life’ project is mitigated to an extent 
since the functional currency of the project company, Waterfront Properties (Private) Limited, 
is in USD. 
Exchange Rates
Buy Rate
(LKR/USD)
Sell Rate
Middle Rate
250
300
350
400
Apr 22
May 22
Jun 22
Jul 22
Aug 22
Sep 22
Oct 22
Nov 22
Dec 22
Jan 23
Feb 23
Mar 23
19 May

46 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT
The 3-month US Dollar LIBOR was increased 
from 0.8% in March 2022 to 5.1% in March 2023.
Cause
The Federal Reserve Open Market Committee 
(FOMC) adopted a hawkish monetary policy 
during the year under review with the aim of 
containing the notable inflationary pressures in 
the US economy. The tightening cycle began 
in March 2022, the first interest rate hike in over 
three years. The Federal Reserve has raised the 
fed funds rate by 5 percentage points across 10 
meetings since March 2022, with the Fed Fund 
Rate at 5.00%-5.25% by May 2023. 
Impact to the John Keells Group
The Group noted a reduction in the Group’s 
USD cash holdings which impacted the USD 
interest income of the Group, despite higher 
interest rates. The repayment of the USD 100 
million six-month bridging loan facility in June 
2022 at Waterfront Properties (Private) Limited 
(WPL), the project company of ‘Cinnamon Life’, 
obtained as part of the refinancing of the USD 
395 million syndicate term loan facility, and the 
conscious conversion of USD cash holdings 
in line with the Group’s funding strategy 
contributed to this reduction in cash holdings. 
It is noted that the repayment of the WPL 
bridging loan had no implications on the Group 
at a net debt level.  
In respect of the Group’s foreign currency 
borrowing portfolio, interest rate swap 
agreements are in place for a sizeable portion 
of the facilities in order to mitigate the Group’s 
exposure to rate fluctuations.
Global Interest Rates
Apr 22
May 22
Jun 22
Jul 22
Aug 22
Sep 22
Oct 22
Nov 22
Dec 22
Jan 23
Feb 23
Mar 23
Average 3 Month US Dollar LIBOR
(%)
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
The Average Weighted Prime Lending Rate (AWPLR) increased from 9.85% in April 2022 
to 23.45% in March 2023.  
The 3-month treasury bill rate was 25.99% in March 2023 compared to 12.99% in 
March 2022.
Cause
During the year under review, the CBSL adopted a contractionary monetary policy 
stance with the aim of addressing rising inflationary pressures, external sector 
vulnerabilities, preventing hyperinflation and prolonged loss in economic activity. 
The upward trend in interest rates was more pronounced in the first half of the financial 
year, particularly with the uncertainty of a domestic debt restructuring being factored 
into secondary market yields on Government securities and the shortage of liquidity.
In April 2022, the CBSL increased the Standing Deposit Facility Rate (SDFR) and 
the Standing Lending Facility Rate (SLFR) by 700 basis points to 13.5% and 14.5%, 
respectively. Following this, the SDFR and SLFR were further increased by 100 basis 
points each in July 2022 and March 2023, to 15.5% and 16.5%, respectively, to align the 
policy rates with the pre-requisites of the EFF arrangement with the IMF. The Statutory 
Reserve Ratio was maintained at 4% during the year under review.
The CBSL also implemented regulatory measures to tighten monetary conditions, such 
as removing maximum interest rates on certain lending products and foreign currency 
deposits. These measures enabled the effective implementation of policy interest rate 
changes, which contributed to the containment of inflationary pressures.
It is encouraging to note the improved liquidity position in the country following the 
decrease in interest rates during the last three months of the financial year on account 
of the reduced Government debt financing requirements.
Impact to the John Keells Group
The Group, excluding its Insurance business, recorded an overall increase in finance 
income (excluding exchange gains and losses) on the back of higher interest rates, 
despite the decrease in Group cash and cash equivalents as discussed in detail under 
the Financial and Manufactured Capital section.
The Group’s finance expense also noted an increase in tandem with the increase in 
interest rates. 
The Group had mitigated the risk of increasing LKR interest rates, to an extent, as it had 
moved a sizeable portion of its short-term facilities into long-term facilities, prior to the 
sharp upward movement in interest rates. A majority of such facilities were obtained on 
a fixed/capped rate basis. The sharp rise in interest rates also placed pressure on many 
businesses due to pressure on funding working capital requirements, particularly in the 
context of supply chain challenges which prevailed during the year.
The marked increase in interest rates also resulted in a shift in funds to debt from other 
investments such as real estate and equity. This was particularly evident in the Property 
industry group, where the business noted subdued interest in the sale of residential 
apartments. 
Domestic Interest Rates 
Average Weighted Prime Lending Rate (Weekly)
(%)
5
10
15
20
25
30
Apr 22
May 22
Jun 22
Jul 22
Aug 22
Sep 22
Oct 22
Nov 22
Dec 22
Jan 23
Feb 23
Mar 23

47
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
TRANSPORTATION
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
Industry Group Structure 
Contribution to the John Keells Group
	y
Operation of a container terminal in the Port of Colombo as a 
public-private partnership on a build, operate and transfer basis 
through South Asia Gateway Terminals (SAGT).
	y
Development of a container terminal for operation in the Port of 
Colombo as a public-private partnership on a build, operate and 
transfer basis through the West Container Terminal (WCT-1). 
	y
Associate stake in Maersk Lanka, the agents in Sri Lanka and the 
Maldives for the Maersk Line. 
	y
Shipping agency and maritime services through Inchcape 
Mackinnon Mackenzie Shipping (Private) Limited (IMMS), a joint 
venture with Inchcape Shipping Services. 
	y
Marine bunkering and related services under Lanka Marine 
Services (LMS).
	y
Third party logistics (3PL), warehousing and trucking through 
John Keells Logistics (JKLL).
	y
DHL air express in Sri Lanka, a joint venture with Deutsche Post.
	y
Representation of multiple on-line and off-line airlines as general 
sales agents through Mack Air (MAL) in Sri Lanka. 
	y
Travel agency and travel related services through Mackinnons 
Travel (MTL).
	y
Domestic scheduled and charter flight operations under the 
brand, ‘Cinnamon Air’.
	y
Freight forwarding and customs brokerage through Mack 
International Freight (MIF).
Ports and Shipping 
Transportation 
30%
31%
4%
5%
Revenue
EBIT
Capital Employed
Carbon Footprint
Inputs (Rs.million)
2022/23
2021/22
%
2020/21
Total assets
 30,790 
 38,621 
 (20)
 23,941 
Total equity
 17,891 
 18,962 
 (6)
 18,291 
Total debt1
 8,610 
 12,680 
 (32)
 3,663 
Capital employed2
 27,074 
 31,751 
 (15)
 22,118 
Employees3 (No.)
 465 
 538 
 (14)
 512 
Outputs (Rs.million)
2022/23
2021/22
%
2020/21
Revenue4
 94,281 
 43,816 
 115 
 26,584 
EBIT
 10,360 
 583 
 1,678 
 3,347 
PBT
 9,570 
 1,015 
 843 
 3,343 
PAT
 9,010 
 733 
 1,130 
 3,246 
EBIT per employee
 22 
 1 
 1,957 
 7 
Carbon footprint (MT)
 4,906 
 4,450 
 10 
 2,557 
1. Excludes lease liabilities.
2.	For equity accounted investees, capital employed is representative of the Group’s 
equity investment in these companies. This is inclusive of lease liabilities.
3. As per the sustainability reporting boundary.
4. Revenue is inclusive of the Group’s share of equity accounted investees.

48 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
TRANSPORTATION
Macroeconomic Update
	y
Global trade of goods and services reached a record level of USD 32 trillion in CY2022, 
which is a 12% increase in comparison to CY2021. Growth was primarily driven by 
encouraging performance in the first half of CY2022. However, trade growth in the second 
half of CY2022, especially in the fourth quarter, was subpar on the back of geopolitical 
frictions, persistent inflation, and lower global demand as per the United Nations 
Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD). 
	y
Merchandise trade stood at USD 25 trillion, a 10% increase against the previous year with 
merchandise trade volumes recording growth. UNCTAD has noted an increasing trend in 
the trade of green goods in CY2022 given the increased emphasis by countries to fight 
climate change and cut emissions.
For a detailed discussion, refer the Outlook section of the report on page 135.
Key Policy and Regulatory Highlights 
	y
Corporate tax rates for the sector increased from 14% to 30%, with effect from October 
2022.
	y
Effective June 2022, the Sri Lanka Ports Authority (SLPA) advised shipping lines to remit 
payments in US Dollars.
	y
The regulation on mandatory conversion of export proceeds which was imposed on 
service exporters in 2021/22 was revoked in September 2022.
	y
The International Maritime Organisation (IMO) introduced the IMO 2023 regulations, a new 
global shipping regulation, with the aim of reducing carbon emissions and promoting 
greater energy efficiency in the sea freight industry. 
	y
In 2022/23, the Sri Lankan Government granted approval to supply fuel to the domestic 
market, primarily to exporters, power generation companies, tourism service providers, 
telecommunication service providers and subsequently to other industries. 
	y
Six new bunker licenses were also issued by the Government during the year, although 
none of them have commenced operations as at the date of this Report.
	y
Several concessions were granted on the embarkation levy and landing and parking 
charges for new airlines and existing operators to attract more airlines to Sri Lankan airports 
in CY2022.
	y
The departure tax at the Colombo International Airport in Ratmalana was reduced by 50% 
to encourage low-cost carriers to Sri Lanka. This concession was effective from 27 March 
2022 for a period of one year.
External Environment and Operational Review
The entirety of the dredging works for both phases at WCT-1 is near complete. 
	y
The Port of Colombo (POC) handled 
6.6 million twenty-foot equivalent units 
(TEUs) in 2022/23, a 10% decrease in 
TEUs handled against the previous year 
[2021/22: growth of 8%]. All terminals 
of the Port of Colombo recorded a 
decline in both cargo and container 
handling volumes on the back of 
global and domestic macroeconomic 
instabilities.
•	
Domestic TEU volumes decreased 
by 22% during 2022/23 
[2021/22: growth of 10%] whilst 
Transshipment volumes decreased 
by 7% in 2022/23 [2021/22: growth 
of 8%]. 
•	
Domestic:transshipment mix stood 
at 14:86 for 2022/23 [2021/22: 
16:84].
•	
Overall POC capacity utilisation was 
~78% for 2022/23 [2021/22: 86%].
	y
Capacity enhancements at the POC: 
•	
The construction of the second 
phase of the East Container 
Terminal (ECT) continued during 
CY2022. Extending across 75 
hectares and a quay length of 1,320 
meters, the ECT is stated to be 
completed by CY2024.
•	
Construction work of the West 
Container Terminal (WCT-1) of the 
Colombo Port is progressing well, 
with 800 meters of quay length due 
to be operational in 2024/25.
Refer the Ports and Shipping 
section for a detailed discussion 
on WCT-1.
•	
Upon the completion of both 
terminals, the estimated annual 
capacity of the POC is expected to 
enhance by ~6 - 6.5 million TEUs.
•	
A feasibility study on the ‘Colombo 
North Port Development Project’ 
and the preliminary design and 
feasibility study to implement a 
new port communication system 
was also undertaken in CY2022.
Macroeconomic Update -  
Ports and Shipping

49
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
Ports and Shipping 
South Asia Gateway Terminals 
During the year under review, the Group’s Ports and Shipping business, SAGT, recorded a 7% 
decline in TEUs to 1.7 million TEUs [2021/22: 1.8 million TEUs] in contrast to the 10% decline 
recorded at the POC. The decline was primarily from domestic volumes which decreased by 15%, 
whilst transshipment volumes contracted by 6%. 
Despite the decline in overall volumes at the Port of Colombo and the macroeconomic challenges 
in terms of sourcing fuel, electricity, and outsourced services such as lashing, inter and intra 
trucking costs, the performance of SAGT was supported by higher revenue from ancillary 
operations and the depreciation of the Rupee against the previous year. Whilst electricity and fuel 
costs recorded an increase, significant cost savings were achieved through the rubber tyred gantry 
cranes (RTGs) hybrid conversion project completed in 2021/22. 
SAGT operationalised two new quay cranes in June 2022 which increased the twin lift capability 
of the terminal to five cranes whilst considerably improving the quayside terminal efficiency. 
The business also implemented an interactive dashboard to provide a real-time overview of 
quay cranes to efficiently manage breakdowns. SAGT further introduced a secure performance 
dashboard with real-time access to quayside performance and an online e-Delivery Advice (e-DA) 
facility to improve the efficiency of the import container clearance process for its customers. The 
business has also invested in a fleet of the latest inter-terminal transfer (ITT) trucks to facilitate and 
guarantee the connection of transshipment containers.
	y
‘Most Progressive Port/Terminal 
towards Sustainability’ awarded by the 
Global Ports Forum Awards 2022. 
	y
‘Best Company with Sustainable 
Practices’ awarded at the Maritime 
SheEO conference 2022.
	y
Received the following accolades at 
the ‘Global Ports Forum Awards 2023’:
•	
Best Container Terminal for 
Environmental Protection Initiatives 
2023.
•	
Container Terminal with Best Safety 
Practices 2023.
	y
Finalist – ‘Terminal Operator of the Year’ 
of the Maritime Standard Awards 2022. 
AWARDS
Colombo West International Container 
Terminal
The groundwork on the West Container 
Terminal (WCT-1) at the Port of Colombo 
is progressing well with the entirety of 
the dredging works for both phases near 
complete. The contract for the quay wall 
construction, a significant component of the 
overall construction works, was awarded in 
October 2022. Overall timelines for the project 
remain as originally envisaged.
The WCT-1, which has a lease period of 35 
years, is a deep-water terminal with a quay 
length of 1,400 meters, an alongside depth of 
20 meters and an annual handling capacity 
of ~3.2 million TEUs. Phase 1 of the terminal, 
comprising of a quay length of 800 meters as 
against the previous 600 meters, is slated to 
be operational by the third quarter of 2024/25. 
The extension of the quay length in Phase 1 
facilitates the servicing of two large vessels 
concurrently, which will enable a higher 
throughput once Phase 1 is operational. The 
remainder of the terminal is expected to be 
completed by the third quarter of 2025/26.
	y
Volumes in the first quarter witnessed a decline of 5% in comparison to the same quarter 
of the previous year. This was primarily driven by a 20% decline in domestic volumes and 
a 2% decline in transshipment volumes on account of the import restrictions and other 
macroeconomic challenges that was evident in the first quarter of 2022/23.
	y
During the second quarter, SAGT witnessed a marginal improvement in overall volumes, 
driven by a 3% growth in transshipment volumes compared to the same quarter of the 
previous year. 
	y
Volumes noted a 13% decline in the third quarter primarily due to global challenges, 
including the Russia-Ukraine conflict and the Covid-19 restrictions which were re-imposed 
in China.
	y
Trends witnessed in the third quarter continued to the fourth quarter, with volumes 
declining by 11% in tandem with the overall decline in volumes at the POC.  
INSIGHTS
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
Q1
FY22: 16:84
FY23: 13:87
Q4
FY22: 14:86
FY23: 13:87
Q3
FY22: 13:87
FY23: 13:87
Q2
FY22: 13:87
FY23: 12:88
Domestic:Transshipment volume mix 
FY20
FY21
FY22
FY23
SAGT Volumes
SAGT Volumes
(TEUs '000)
(TEUs '000)
SAGT operationalised two new quay cranes in 
June 2022 which considerably improved the quayside 
terminal efficiency.
The entirety of the dredging works for both phases at 
WCT-1 is near complete.

50 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
Inchcape Mackinnon Mackenzie Shipping
IMMS recorded a strong performance in its first 
full year of operations, with double digit growth 
in both revenue and jobs undertaken, albeit off 
a low base. The business was able to leverage 
on its worldwide shipping agency networks 
and domestic expertise to capture a sizeable 
market share in the shipping agency business. 
However, given the macroeconomic challenges, 
IMMS experienced reductions in casual caller 
volumes and bulk cargo imports. The business’s 
primary focus of ship husbandry services 
performed relatively well in the first half of the 
year with the business gaining market share 
during the period. IMMS also commenced 
promotions on ‘ISS Cruise’ vertical and launched 
the Inchcape Marine survey and inspection 
service during the year under review.
Maersk Lanka
Maersk continued to secure its position as 
one of the largest shipping lines in the POC. 
The business performed well during the 
year on account of its new global strategy 
as a logistics service provider in addition to 
shipping services, the steep devaluation of 
the Rupee and favourable freight rates. The 
macroeconomic conditions in the country 
posed various cost pressures and liquidity 
challenges which impacted the business. The 
business undertook various cost management 
initiatives to minimise the impact on business.
	y
Gold award - ‘Ocean Carriers (Main 
Liner Operators – Large Category)’ 
awarded by the National Logistics 
Awards by Sri Lanka Logistics and 
Freight Forwarders Association (SLFFA).
AWARDS
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
TRANSPORTATION
Bunkering 
Given the challenging macroeconomic environment, the bunkering industry faced numerous 
challenges in procuring cargo from suppliers, which included restrictions in opening letters of credit 
(LCs), foreign exchange shortages and disruptions to doing business due to the country’s sovereign 
rating downgrade. Competition from regional markets and the thinning out of local demand 
affected the market in the second half of the year under review. The market was also impacted due 
to increased competition from Indian ports. The Bunkering business of the Group, LMS, was no 
exception and was impacted in a similar manner. Despite the multitude of challenges faced, LMS 
recorded an 8% growth in volumes [2021/22: growth of 3%]. LMS continued to retain its market 
leadership position both in the West Coast and the Sri Lankan market. 
LMS recorded a strong performance in the first half of the year driven by improved margins, 
on account of the steep increase in global fuel oil prices, as well as higher volumes for the year. 
However, performance in the second half of the year was impacted by the sharp decline in oil 
prices and the overall slowdown in bunker market volumes. The business continued to carefully 
determine cargo parcel sizes for import purposes, in order to avoid any over exposure of inventory.   
Given the various challenges faced by market players in importing cargo during the year, LMS 
provided continuous supplies to its customers which enabled the business to improve market 
share. However, with the improvement in economic conditions and its competitors noting a 
gradual improvement, market share witnessed a marginal decline, although above the market 
share noted in the previous financial year.
In May 2022, the Government of Sri Lanka granted approval for licensed bunkering businesses to 
import and supply fuel oil to local industries to ensure continuity of operations in light of the fuel 
shortages in the country and ease the burden on Government supplies. LMS also provided fuel to 
such local industries which helped them navigate supply issues while these sales incrementally 
supported the overall volumes at LMS. 
Logistics 
The logistics arm of the Group, John Keells Logistics (JKLL), expanded its service offerings and 
customer base across new sectors. During the year under review, JKLL’s third party logistics (3PL) 
business, enhanced the storage capacity of its warehouses by 26%, aided by internal optimisation 
strategies whilst maintaining the footprint in line with 2021/22.  
JKLL faced significant challenges from power supply interruptions, fuel shortages, import 
restrictions and lower export volumes. However, the business continued to implement cost saving 
strategies, digitise and optimise its logistics value chain by leveraging on its newly implemented 
tier 1 warehouse management system (WMS) and other cost saving initiatives to provide 
customer-centric solutions for its clients. 
Macroeconomic Update - Bunkering
	y
The price of Brent oil rose significantly in the first half of CY2022 mainly as a result of the 
geopolitical tension with Russia. The low global crude oil inventory and reduced supply 
resulted in the highest inflation-adjusted crude oil prices since CY2014. However, from 
the start of the second half of CY2022, prices followed a declining trend on account of 
the slowdown in global growth, aggressive monetary policies and continued Covid-19 
restrictions in China. 
	y
Given the declining crude oil prices, driven by oil supplies from Russia, Indian ports 
reduced prices during the fourth quarter of 2022/23, which impacted the Sri Lankan 
bunker market, with overall market volume declining by 9%.  
•	
As per Reuters, the largest oil supplier to India during April 2022-January 2023 
continued to be Iraq, with Russia replacing Saudi Arabia as the second largest supplier.
	y
The Jaya Container Terminal (JCT) oil bank, operated by the SLPA, called RFPs (request for 
proposal) with the aim of increasing its storage capacity.
Maersk continued to secure its position as one of the 
largest shipping lines in the POC.

51
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
Given the significant escalations in 
construction costs, JKLL decided not to pursue 
the 100,000 sq.ft. warehouse construction 
project in Raddolugama. Alternatively, a new 
70,000 sq.ft. warehouse was onboarded on a 
rental basis during the year.  
Despite the decline in both import and export 
volumes, JKLL was successful in penetrating the 
apparel and tyre industry verticals whilst further 
expanding into the e-commerce industry. 
During 2022/23 no new warehouses were 
constructed. The existing warehouses were 
operating at ~90% capacity by the end of 
the financial year. Given the challenging 
macroeconomic environment, the business 
witnessed notable cost pressures, including an 
increase in rental rates stemming from the short 
supply of warehousing facilities in the market.
DHL Keells 
DHL Keells (Private) Limited continued to 
maintain its market leadership position in 
2022/23 despite the challenges encountered. 
The increase in freight rates as a part of its 
incremental yield and margin management 
initiatives was a significant driver of revenue 
during the year. Performance was also aided 
by the translation impact from the steep 
depreciation of the Rupee. However, the 
depreciation impacted the retail segment, which 
witnessed a decline during the year. Due to the 
macroeconomic crisis, new customer gains and 
active customer retention was a challenge in 
the small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs) 
segment and tele-sales channels. 
DHL collaborated with LMS during the fuel 
crisis to ensure uninterrupted services were 
provided. DHL Keells also liaised with the DHL 
Commercial Airline (CAL) group to secure 
necessary assistance for inbound material and 
to maintain service consistency, given the 
payload restrictions imposed by airlines.
The business introduced a new clearance 
website to assist customers in obtaining 
information on the clearance process. Digital 
initiatives such as key accounts reporting tool 
(KART) and robotic process automations were 
implemented to simplify routine work and 
improve the customer experience, alongside 
other initiatives to streamline operational 
processes and enhance productivity.
Airlines and Other 
Businesses within the Airline segment was impacted by the lacklustre performance in tourist 
arrivals, particularly during the first half of the year. The segment witnessed an encouraging 
recovery towards the latter end of the year under review, in tandem with the revival of the tourism 
industry and the easing of macroeconomic pressures.
‘Cinnamon Air’ witnessed a recovery in the high-end segment, driven by increased contribution 
from local corporates and high-net-worth individuals. The airline operated ~45 charter flights per 
month on average from mid-December 2022 onwards. The scheduled flight operations which 
were suspended in March 2020, on account of the pandemic, recommenced operations in April 
2022. However, the business was compelled to re-suspend operations due to the various socio-
economic and socio-political challenges that materialised in the first half of 2022/23. The business 
will assess the demand for scheduled flights with a view to recommencing its scheduled services.
The performance of MAL was driven by increased flight frequencies given its enhanced 
relationships with airlines and new product offerings. The business also focused on new customer 
segments such as labour, migrant and student given the shift in demand. However, foreign 
currency remittances due to principals were affected by constraints in the foreign exchange 
market. MAL was successful in navigating such challenges through higher engagement and 
alternate solutions which led to renewed confidence in the business amongst principals.
MTL experienced a recovery in performance in tandem with an increase in demand for air travel. 
Devaluation of the local currency and restrictions in foreign currency transfers to airline principals 
contributed to an increase in airline ticket prices. However, a gradual easing off was noted 
following the appreciation of the Rupee. During the year, MTL recorded an improvement in  
market share.
Although MIF was able to onboard new customers under both the air and sea freight verticals 
during the year under review, the business was faced with multiple challenges. Various 
challenges on account of import restrictions, and foreign exchange constraints, coupled with the 
downgrading of the sovereign rating resulted in increased working capital requirements and a 
subdued performance of the freight vertical. 
Despite the multitude of 
challenges faced, LMS 
recorded an 8% growth in 
volumes. LMS continued to 
retain its market leadership 
position both in the West Coast 
and the Sri Lankan market.
Macroeconomic Update - Airlines and Other
	y
In CY2022, the performance of the civil aviation sector improved with the gradual 
restoration of global travel activity. 
	y
Thirty-three international airlines and five domestic airlines were in operation in the 
country in CY2022. 
	y
The construction of the new taxiway at the Colombo International Airport in Ratmalana 
was completed in March 2022.
For a detailed discussion on the tourism sector performance, refer the Leisure industry group review 
on page 63.
Received the following awards from ‘Great Place To Work’:
	y
Gold Award - ‘Best Multinational’
	y
Gold Award - ‘Best Medium Sized Organisation’
	y
Recognised as one of the ‘Top 40 Best Work Places’ for the 8th consecutive time.
Received the following at the ‘Stevie Awards’:
	y
Silver Award – ‘Sales Growth Achievement of the Year’
	y
Bronze Award – ‘Back Office Customer Service Team of the Year’
	y
Bronze Award – ‘Contact Centre of the Year’
AWARDS

52 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
CSD    |    Non-CSD
Bulk    |    Impulse
Inputs (Rs.million)
2022/23
2021/22
%
2020/21
Total assets
 23,438 
 19,508 
 20 
 15,914 
Total equity
 11,052 
 9,531 
 16 
 8,755 
Total debt1
 6,536 
 3,114 
 110 
 2,546 
Capital employed2
 17,746 
 12,792 
 39 
 11,398 
Employees3 (No.)
 1,363 
 1,363 
 -   
 1,402 
Outputs (Rs.million)
2022/23
2021/22
%
2020/21
Revenue
 31,269 
 21,008 
 49 
 16,510 
EBIT
 2,210 
 2,516 
 (12)
 2,459 
PBT
 1,164 
 2,347 
 (50)
 2,297 
PAT
 1,745 
 1,925 
 (9)
 2,156 
EBIT per employee
 2 
 2 
 (12)
 2 
Carbon footprint (MT)
 19,284 
 19,581 
 (2)
 17,619 
1. Excludes lease liabilities.
2.	Includes lease liabilities.
3. As per the sustainability reporting boundary.
CONSUMER FOODS
Industry Group Structure 
Contribution to the John Keells Group
	y
Carbonated soft drinks (CSD) under the ‘Elephant House’ brand.
	y
Non-CSD range:
•	
‘Twistee’, a fruit-based tea drink.
•	
‘Fit-O’, a fruit flavoured drink.
•	
Fresh milk and flavoured milk branded under ‘Elephant 
House’.
•	
Water branded under ‘Elephant House’.
	y
Wide selection of Frozen Confectionery products, including the 
premium ice cream range ‘Imorich’, ‘Feelgood’ guilt-free frozen 
yoghurt range and other Impulse products such as stick, cone, 
and cup varieties.
	y
Processed meat products under the ‘Keells-Krest’ and ‘Elephant 
House’ brands.
	y
A range of crumbed and formed meat products under the 
‘Keells-Krest’ brand.
	y
‘Keells-Krest Soya Meat’, a plant-based product. 
Beverages 
Frozen Confectionery 
Convenience Foods
10%
7%
3%
19%
Revenue
EBIT
Capital Employed
Carbon Footprint
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
Note: The above products comprise a portfolio of leading consumer brands – all 
household names - supported by an established island-wide distribution channel and 
dedicated sales team.

53
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
Macroeconomic Update
	y
As outlined under the ‘External 
Environment’ section of this 
Report, the year under review was 
characterised by unprecedented 
challenges which includes a surge 
in inflation, both globally and 
domestically, supply side disruptions 
including a power and energy crisis, 
notable uptick in policy rates as well 
as a steep depreciation of the Rupee. 
Whilst the economic volatility was 
more pronounced in the first half of 
the year under review, the second half 
witnessed a gradual improvement.  
Key Policy and Regulatory Highlights
	y
The concessionary corporate income 
tax rate of 18% applicable to the 
manufacturing sector was increased 
to the standard corporate income tax 
rate of 30% with effect from 
1 October 2022.
	y
The value added tax (VAT) rate was 
increased from 8% to 12% with effect 
from 1 June 2022, and thereafter 
increased to 15% effective from 1 
September 2022.
	y
The Government imposed a social 
security contribution levy (SSCL) 
of 2.5% on annual taxable revenue 
exceeding Rs.120 million of taxable 
persons with effective from 
1 October 2022.
For a detailed discussion, refer the External 
Environment section of the report on 
page 41.
External Environment and Operational 
Review
The Consumer Foods industry group recorded 
a strong volume recovery during the first half 
of 2022/23 with volumes exceeding pre-
pandemic levels. However, the performance 
in the second half of 2022/23 was negatively 
impacted by a decline in volumes and margin 
contraction across the businesses, given the 
adverse macroeconomic circumstances that 
prevailed during the year under review. 
Whilst the domestic macroeconomic conditions recorded substantial improvements during the 
second half of the year under review and day-to-day consumer and business activity reverted 
to levels of normalcy, consumer demand was relatively slow to rebound, thereby impacting the 
volumes of the businesses.
Beverages 
Given the challenging operating environment, the Beverages business recorded a 5% decline 
in volumes during the year under review [2021/22: 22% growth]. This was driven by the CSD 
segment, which recorded a 7% decline in volumes in comparison to the growth of 18% recorded 
in the previous year. It is encouraging to note that both the Dairy and Fruit Juice segments 
recorded encouraging growth during the year under review, whilst the Water segment maintained 
steady volumes.
Volume Growth (%)
Beverages*
CSD Segment
FY23
FY22
FY23
FY22
First half 
37
(1)**
32
(2)**
Second half
(31)
 43***
(32)
 35***
*More than 80% of volumes are attributed to the CSD segment.
** Volumes in the first half of 2021/22 were impacted by pandemic-related disruptions.
*** Volumes in the second half of 2021/22 witnessed a recovery with the easing of Covid-19 restrictions. 
Note: The decline in volumes during the second half of 2022/23 can largely be attributed to the decline in demand on 
the back of the aftermath of the macroeconomic crisis during seasonal months.
INSIGHTS
The challenges faced by the industry group during the year under review:
Supply-side Challenges 
	y
The steep depreciation of the Rupee 
and unprecedented inflationary 
pressures led to a sharp increase in 
raw material prices. 
	y
Import restrictions on account of the 
foreign currency shortage further 
exacerbated supply chain challenges, 
especially in sourcing raw materials 
essential for production. The resultant 
need for inventory buffers also exerted 
pressure on the working capital cycle. 
	y
Significant increases in operational 
costs, including fuel, gas, electricity 
and salary costs adversely impacted 
margins and profits of the businesses. 
	y
Financing costs were impacted by the 
significant increase in interest rates. 
	y
Regular disruptions to power supply 
and fuel shortages posed additional 
operational challenges for the 
businesses. 
	y
Restrictions on opening letters of 
credit (LCs) exerted pressure on 
working capital requirements of the 
businesses.
Demand-side Challenges 
	y
The unprecedented rise in inflation had 
a significant impact on the disposable 
income of customers, leading to 
prioritisation of essential items over  
non-essential items. 
	y
The increase in personal income tax 
rates from the fourth quarter of 2022/23 
further impacted the purchasing power of 
consumers. 
	y
The notable increase in direct and indirect 
costs coupled with the increase in VAT and 
the imposition of the SSCL, compelled the 
businesses to adopt price increases which 
impacted demand.
	y
The sharp increase in the cost of living 
resulted in a shift in consumer demand 
from larger pack sizes to smaller, more 
economically priced options.

54 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
CONSUMER FOODS
	y
CSD volumes in the first and second quarters of the current year recorded a growth of 
56% and 13%, respectively [2021/22: 18% growth and 14% negative growth, respectively], 
with volumes exceeding pre-pandemic levels. It should, however, be noted that volumes 
in both quarters of the previous year were impacted by pandemic-related disruptions and 
lockdowns. 
	y
CSD volumes in the third quarter of 2022/23 recorded a decrease of 19% [2021/22: 37% 
growth] on account of the price increases undertaken in several stock keeping units 
(SKUs) to mitigate margin pressure together with declining consumer disposable incomes 
which dampened demand. It is noted that the volumes in the third quarter of 2021/22 
also entailed volumes driven by ‘pent up’ demand, given the easing of pandemic-related 
restrictions, which affected the base and therefore the comparative growth in volumes.
	y
Consumer disposable income was further impacted by the increase in personal income taxes 
implemented from 1 January 2023. Accordingly, volumes in the fourth quarter of the year 
under review declined by 40%. The 34% growth in volumes in the fourth quarter of 2021/22 
was driven by the easing of restrictions and improved consumer sentiment since the onset of 
the pandemic. 
INSIGHTS
As illustrated in the diagram below, global raw 
material prices continue to exhibit a declining 
trend, gradually reducing from its peak levels. 
This coupled with a decline in freight costs, 
the gradual easing of the country’s foreign 
exchange liquidity position and improved raw 
material availability have positively impacted 
the margins of the business. Accordingly, 
pressure on margins has started to ease from 
the fourth quarter of 2022/23 onwards since 
the inventory sourced in the previous quarters 
at higher costs has largely been depleted. 
The business introduced reduced pack sizes 
at affordable price points, such as the 250 ml 
bottle, which was launched to the market 
at a rate of Rs.100.00. This gained significant 
traction in the market, aiding the business 
to retain market share in a demand-elastic 
market. Further, the business implemented 
pre-selling strategies given the longer shelf life 
of products.
Products Launched 
	y
250 ml economic packs under the 
CSD segment.
	y
‘Cream Soda Kiwi Pop’ under the 
CSD segment.
	y
‘Twisty Lemon’ under the 
non-CSD segment.
To address operational cost pressures, in 
addition to increasing prices across SKUs, the 
business entered into forward contracts and 
booked consignments in advance to secure 
sufficient stocks and sustain production 
effectively. Forward procurement of fuel 
was carried out in order to ensure minimal 
interruptions to production. Cost efficiency 
and cost reduction programmes targeting 
packaging material and production processes at 
the factories were carried out, which aided the 
business in driving production efficiency and 
navigating the challenging market conditions.
The business continued to roll-out its 
advanced analytics transformation programme 
during the year, where several well-defined 
advanced analytics use cases earmarked for 
the Beverages business were successfully 
deployed. Preliminary results of these pilot 
projects are promising, with strong indication 
that the anticipated benefits that were evident 
through the initial pilot projects can be 
sustained at scale. These use cases focus on 
improving efficiencies across the supply chain. 
During the year under review, in addition to the decline in volumes, the performance of the 
Beverages business was significantly impacted due to increased pressure on margins, on the back of 
cost escalations in raw materials and packaging materials, which was largely a global phenomenon. 
Margin pressure was further exacerbated with rising inflation across all cost inputs in the country 
and the impact of the steep depreciation of the Rupee. However, the impact on margins were, to 
an extent, absorbed through price increases in select SKUs and forward buying of material, where 
possible. The operating leverage in the first two quarters of the year under review further supported 
the business to mitigate margin pressure.  
50
100
150
200
250
300
Q1
Q4
Q3
FY20
FY21
FY22
FY23
Q2
Q1
Q4
Q3
Q2
Q1
Q4
Q3
Q2
Q1
Q4
Q3
Q2
Beverages: white reﬁned sugar (price per kg)
CSD PET bottle (price per unit)
Movement of Raw Material Prices
Movement of Raw Material Prices
(Index: FY20 Q1 = 100)
(Index: FY20 Q1 = 100)
Source: Internal company data.
0
30
60
90
120
150
Q1
Q4
Q3
Q2
FY20
FY21
FY22
FY23
CSD Volumes
CSD Volumes
(Index: FY20 Q1 = 100)
(Index: FY20 Q1 = 100)

55
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
	y
The FC business exhibited a robust growth momentum, with volumes increasing by 31% 
in the first quarter of the year under review in comparison to the previous year. This growth 
was attributable to the recovery momentum following the pandemic. It is noted that the 
performance in the corresponding period of the previous year was affected by pandemic-
related disruptions.
	y
During the second quarter of 2022/23, the FC business recorded a growth of 6% driven by 
the Impulse segment. In contrast, volumes declined by 12% in the corresponding quarter 
of 2021/22, which was adversely affected by the rapid spread of Covid-19 in mid-August 
2021.
	y
Accordingly, the FC business recorded an encouraging growth of 18% in the first half of the 
year under review, in comparison to the growth of 2% recorded in the first half of 2021/22.
	y
To mitigate the increase in raw material prices, the FC business undertook price increases 
on several SKUs. This had an impact on demand, as price increases in the challenging 
macroeconomic environment further reduced purchasing power. Accordingly, the FC 
business experienced a decline in volumes of 19% in the third quarter of the year under 
review. This is in contrast to the strong performance in the comparative quarter of the 
previous year, which was driven by improved consumer sentiment post the easing of 
pandemic-related restrictions. It is noted that the volumes in the third quarter of 2021/22 
also entailed volumes driven by ‘pent up’ demand, given the easing of pandemic-related 
restrictions, which affected the base and therefore the comparative growth in volumes. 
	y
The negative momentum continued into the fourth quarter of 2022/23, with volumes 
declining by 30% during the quarter. This was a considerable decline compared to the 
25% increase in volumes recorded in the fourth quarter of 2021/22. It is noted that the 
FC business achieved its highest monthly sales volume in March 2022. In contrast, the 
seasonal months during the year under review were adversely affected as consumers 
limited their spending. 
	y
Accordingly, during the second half of 2022/23, the FC business recorded a negative 
growth of 25% in comparison to the growth of 30% recorded in the second half of 2021/22.
INSIGHTS
Returnable glass bottles (RGB) declined in 
volumes due to restrictions in movement 
caused by fuel shortages and social unrest, 
while polyethylene terephthalate (PET) 
bottles noted a growth. The PET: RGB mix 
stood at 89:11 during the year under review in 
comparison to 90:10 in 2021/22. 
The business was able to achieve efficiency 
gains by addressing aspects such as 
changeover time in packaging and production 
capacity. To this end, the PET capacity was 
improved during the year under review by 
converting a previously underutilised glass line 
into a PET line, thereby optimising production. 
CSD: Non-CSD Volume Mix 
84:16
2021/22: 86:14
Despite the challenges, the business maintained 
the distributor network by implementing 
effective planning and brand building strategies. 
The credit risk and exposures of distributors 
were managed through rigorous and more 
frequent monitoring of credit limits. The 
business placed strategic focus on increasing its 
distribution efficiency by proactively engaging 
and monitoring distributors through integrated 
digital platforms. New business intelligence 
(BI) dashboards were implemented along 
with the digitisation of the field sales process, 
which included geotag locations, among other 
features.
Frozen Confectionery 
Similar to the Beverages business, the Frozen Confectionery (FC) business faced a multitude of 
challenges stemming from various factors, such as inflationary pressures, foreign currency shortages, 
fuel scarcities, and power supply disruptions during the year under review. Whilst the overall market 
recorded a double-digit decline in volumes, the FC business recorded a decrease of 7% in volumes 
[2021/22: 17% growth]. 
It is encouraging to note that the Impulse segment recorded a 10% growth during the year, primarily 
attributed to the relatively lower and more affordable price points of Impulse products [2021/22: 
26% growth]. The Bulk segment recorded a 15% decline in volumes, mainly attributable to subdued 
demand during the seasonal months [2021/22: 13% growth].
	y
SLIM Brand Excellence Awards 2022: 
•	
Gold award – ‘Agile Brand of the 
Year’ awarded to ‘Elephant House 
Ginger Beer’.
•	
Bronze award – ‘Turnaround Brand 
of the Year’ awarded to ‘Elephant 
House Ginger Beer’.
	y
Gold award - ‘Best Use of Branded 
Content’ at the SLIM Digis awarded to 
‘Elephant House’.
	y
‘Elephant House Cream Soda’ and 
‘Elephant House Ginger Beer’ was 
ranked first and third as ‘Brand Finance 
Most Loved Brands 2022’ in the 
Beverages category. 
AWARDS
0
30
60
90
120
150
Q1
Q4
Q3
Q2
FY20
FY21
FY22
FY23
Frozen Confectionery Volumes
Frozen Confectionery Volumes
(Index: FY20 Q1 = 100)
(Index: FY20 Q1 = 100)

56 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
As envisaged in line with the long-term strategy of the business and in line with the trends 
witnessed in regional markets, the FC business witnessed an increase in the volume contribution 
from the Impulse segment during the year. Accordingly, the Bulk:Impulse volume mix for the year 
stood at 62:38, compared to 68:32 recorded in the previous year. This shift in the volume mix was 
mainly driven by the affordable price points of Impulse products, especially given the economic 
downturn, while seasonality sales of Bulk products were impacted. 
During the year under review, similar to the Beverages business, the FC business faced substantial 
cost escalations in raw materials and packaging materials, which in turn impacted margins. In 
order to mitigate the impact of these cost increases, the business increased the prices of SKUs 
across the portfolio.
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
Q1
Q4
Q3
FY20
FY21
FY22
FY23
Q2
Q1
Q4
Q3
Q2
Q1
Q4
Q3
Q2
Q1
Q4
Q3
Q2
Skimmed milk powder
(price per kg)
Ice cream:white reﬁned sugar
(price per kg)
Movement of Raw Material Prices
Movement of Raw Material Prices
(Index: FY20 Q1 = 100)
(Index: FY20 Q1 = 100)
Ice cream containers and lids
(per unit)
Source: Internal company data.
During the fourth quarter of 2022/23, the FC business experienced an improvement in global 
supply chains, resulting in better availability of products, along with a favourable macroeconomic 
environment given the increased foreign currency availability and relaxed import restrictions. 
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
CONSUMER FOODS
The premium ice cream range ‘Imorich’.
	y
‘Best Ethical Trading Exporter’ in the 
medium category at the National 
Chamber of Exports Awards 2022.
	y
Gold award – ‘Confectionery Products’ 
in the medium category at the 
National Chamber of Exports Awards 
2022.
	y
‘Elephant House’ was ranked first in the 
FMCG category of ‘Brand Finance Most 
Loved Brands 2022’.
AWARDS
Bulk:Impulse Volume Mix 
62:38
2021/22: 68:32
Products Launched 
	y
Popsicles: Major Max Strawberry stick.
	y
Tubs: Raspberry Cheesecake and Hazelnut 
and Chocolate one litre ‘Imorich’ tubs.
	y
Cones: Pani Kadju and ‘Imorich’ Waffle cones.
	y
Ice cubes.
The amalgamation of the Bulk and Impulse 
distributors into a common distribution channel, 
supported distributor performance and credit 
risk management. In light of the macroeconomic 
challenges, the business conducted weekly 
reviews of costs and cash flow movements and 
implemented measures to curtail expenses.
Despite the operational challenges, the 
business maintained its distributor network 
through effective planning and cost 
optimisation strategies, as well as by absorbing 
tax increases imposed on distributors. In 
order to manage credit risk and exposures of 
distributors, the business monitored credit 
limits more frequently. The business placed 
strategic focus on increasing its distribution 
efficiency by proactively engaging and 
monitoring distributors through integrated 
digital platforms while pursuing route 
optimisation. To this end, new BI dashboards 
were implemented along with field sales 
process digitisation and automated discount 
approvals via the distributor management 
system implemented in 2021/22. The FC 
business continued to roll-out its advanced 
analytics transformation programme during 
the year, where one use case earmarked for the 
FC business was rolled out. Another use case is 
currently at a pilot implementation stage. 

57
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
Similar to the Beverages and FC businesses, the business witnessed a notable reduction in 
raw material prices towards the latter end of the year under review, on the back of the gradual 
improvement in macroeconomic circumstances.
Increase in prices of key raw materials:
Source: Internal company data.
Chicken
Palm Oil
Packaging Material
~52%
~21%
~113%
~-20%
~-27%
~-4%
2021/22 vs. 2022/23
2021/22 vs. 2022/23
2021/22 vs. 2022/23
Q3 vs. Q4 2022/23
Q3 vs. Q4 2022/23
Q3 vs. Q4 2022/23
During the year under review, the business maintained its market share, calculated based on the 
retail sausages market, at ~60%. The retail sausages and meatballs categories recorded a negative 
growth in 2022/23, declining by 9% and 16%, respectively compared to a growth of 16% and 17% 
recorded in the previous year. The modern trade channel accounted for 32% of total volumes, 
while the general trade and hotels, restaurants, catering (HORECA) channels accounted for 40% 
and 15%, respectively. The Hotel channel demonstrated a recovery in volumes, driven by a gradual 
uptick in tourist arrivals, achieving a 23% growth rate compared to the preceding year. 
The business’s focus on growing the export channel augured well, with export volume noting a 
62% increase during the year, albeit on a lower base. Growth was driven by existing markets such 
as the Maldives and the Middle East, as well as new markets such as Australia. The business is 
committed to pursuing export opportunities as a means of further enhancing its market position.
Products Launched 
	y
Re-launched its kids sausage range, ‘Frankie’.
	y
Launched ‘Nai Miris’ sausage range. 
	y
Introduced ‘Crispy Chicken’ fillet strips and chicken thighs under the meat segment.
	y
A fish-based curry ‘Maalu Curry’ was launched.
KFP continued to innovate its digital integration by establishing a dedicated BI portal to improve 
sales and distribution of the business. The workflow management system that was implemented 
during 2021/22 continued to digitise operations ensuring a systematic process in capital 
expenditure approvals and recipe changes, amongst others.
The newly introduced ‘Crispy Chicken’ thighs.
Convenience Foods
Keells Food Products (KFP) recorded a 22% 
decline in volumes during 2022/23 on 
account of the challenges stemming from the 
volatile macroeconomic conditions, including 
the sharp rise in input costs [2021/22: 12% 
growth]. The volumes of the Convenience 
Foods business remained steady during the 
first half of the year against the comparative 
period of the previous year. However, during 
the second half of the year, volumes declined 
by 40% against that recorded in the second 
half of 2021/22.	
The business experienced pressure on 
its margins during the year under review, 
primarily due to the significant cost escalations 
in raw materials and packaging materials. The 
cost escalations were particularly evident in 
chicken and pork, which recorded significant 
cost increases due to the unavailability of 
animal feed caused by foreign exchange 
constraints. Utility, salaries and fuel rate 
hikes, coupled with increases in taxes further 
compounded the pressure on margins. 
To mitigate the impact of these cost 
escalations, the business implemented price 
increases across all SKUs. Furthermore, the 
business introduced economic value packs 
as an aggressive retail drive to ensure the 
availability of products. ‘Value for money’ 
products ranging from 70, 325, and 350 grams 
at affordable prices were launched. Further, 
the business expanded its soya range, as a 
substitute for meat products and a source of 
nutrition across a range of flavours.  
These measures were taken to maintain the competitiveness of the business and meet the 
evolving needs of its customers, especially during an economic downturn. To ensure minimal 
disruption to production, the business entered into forward contracts to secure stocks. This 
helped to mitigate any potential supply chain disruptions and ensure the continued availability of 
products. Despite the challenges faced, the business remained committed to providing high-
quality products to its customers. The measures taken to address the cost escalations in raw 
materials and packing materials were necessary to ensure the sustainability of the business and 
maintain its positioning in the market.
The Convenience Foods business focuses on growing the 
export channel augured well, with export volume noting a 62% 
increase during the year, albeit on a lower base. Growth was 
driven by existing markets such as the Maldives and the Middle 
East, as well as new markets such as Australia. 

58 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
RETAIL
Industry Group Structure 
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
	y
JayKay Marketing Services (Private) Limited (JMSL) operates 
the ‘Keells’ chain of modern retail outlets and the ‘Nexus’ loyalty 
programme. 
•	
131 outlets across the island as at 31 March 2023.
•	
~2.1 million ‘Nexus’ loyalty card members.
•	
Over ~290 ‘Keells’ private label products.
•	
9 collection centres across the country working with ~2,700 
active farmers.
•	
Employment for ~6,000 individuals.
•	
Marketplace for ~80 large and small-scale suppliers.
	y
The state-of-the-art distribution centre (DC), under LogiPark 
International (Private) Limited (LPI) centralising JMSL’s offerings 
across the dry, fresh, and chilled categories.
•	
A modern retail chain DC with the capacity to cater to over 
~250 outlets. 
•	
Employment for ~500 individuals.
	y
John Keells Office Automation (JKOA) is the authorised 
distributor for a variety of world-class office automation brands.
•	
National distributor for Samsung smartphones.
•	
Sole distributor for Toshiba B&W and colour digital multi-
function printers (MFPs) and Print-Now-Pay-Later (PNPL) 
digital copier rental solutions.
•	
Authorised distributor for ASUS commercial series notebooks.
•	
Other products include laser printers, large format displays 
(LFD), digital duplicators, POS systems, receipt and label 
printers, tabs, accessories, mobiles, and projectors from a 
variety of world class brands.
Office Automation 
Supermarkets
Inputs (Rs.million)
2022/23
2021/22
%
2020/21
Total assets
 49,929 
 52,476 
 (5)
 44,412 
Total equity
 3,725 
 3,487 
 7 
 4,795 
Total debt1
 20,510 
 15,342 
 34 
13,048
Capital employed2
 34,587 
 29,046 
 19 
 26,876 
Employees3 (No.)
 6,757 
 6,295 
 7 
 5,864 
Outputs (Rs.million)
2022/23
2021/22
%
2020/21
Revenue
 106,849 
 90,842 
 18 
 70,229 
EBIT
 5,678 
 4,928 
 15 
 3,287 
PBT
 558 
 7 
 8,207 
 1,818 
PAT
 1,296 
 (865)
 250 
 1,569 
EBIT per employee
 1 
 1 
 7 
 1 
Carbon footprint (MT)
 36,359 
 36,230 
 0 
 33,168 
1. Excludes lease liabilities.
2.	Includes lease liabilities.
3. As per the sustainability reporting boundary.
Contribution to the John Keells Group
34%
17%
6%
35%
Revenue
EBIT
Capital Employed
Carbon Footprint

59
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
Macroeconomic Update
Industry Highlights
	y
As outlined under the External Environment section of this Report, the year under review 
was characterised by unprecedented challenges which included a surge in inflation, both 
globally and domestically, supply side disruptions including a power and energy crisis, 
notable uptick in policy rates as well as a steep depreciation of the Rupee. Whilst the 
economic volatility was more pronounced in the first half of the year under review, the 
second half witnessed a gradual improvement.
Key Policy and Regulatory Highlights
	y
The value added tax (VAT) rate was increased from 8% to 12%, with effect from 1 June 
2022, and thereafter increased to15%, effective from 1 September 2022.
	y
The Government imposed a social security contribution levy (SSCL) of 2.5% on annual 
taxable revenue exceeding Rs.120 million of taxable persons, with effective from 
1 October 2022.
For a detailed discussion, refer the External Environment section of the report on page 41.
External Environment and Operational Review
Supermarkets
The Supermarket business remained resilient during the year under review, despite the challenging 
operating circumstances which entailed notable disruptions in supply chain and product availability, 
in particular. Whilst the revenue of the Supermarket business was supported by substantial price 
increases undertaken by suppliers, margins remained under pressure given the significant cost 
escalations in operations primarily due to the increase in electricity tariffs and staff costs.  
INSIGHTS
The challenges encountered by the Supermarket business:
	y
The first half of 2022/23 was characterised by a hyperinflationary environment as well as 
the steep depreciation of the Rupee, resulting in a decline in purchasing power. As such, 
the business witnessed customers showing an increased focus on price when making 
purchasing decisions and a reduction in the number of items in their baskets. 
	y
The business faced rising costs of freight and packaging materials due to inflation.
	y
The availability of certain stock keeping units (SKUs) were impacted due to the foreign 
currency liquidity shortages when importing, together with import restrictions, shipment 
delays, and stock outages.
	y
The stock holding costs of the business increased due to the lack of availability of items.
	y
Certain suppliers discontinued their business operations due to the macroeconomic 
challenges and resulting pressure on sustaining businesses. 
	y
The increase in interest rates, corporate income tax, VAT and the imposition of SSCL, which 
is a revenue based tax similar to the nation building tax in force a few years ago, which 
directly increased costs, thereby impacting margins, while also having indirect implications 
on consumer disposable income.
	y
The increase in electricity tariffs and fuel costs, coupled with regular power outages in the 
first half of the year, increased the operational costs of the business.
	y
The volatile macroeconomic environment led to an increase in labour migration.
	y
The significant escalation in construction costs impacted the investment per outlet 
whilst the macroeconomic challenges impacted the expansion momentum of the outlet 
network. 
JMSL undertook several measures during 
the year in response to the challenging 
macroeconomic environment:
	y
Given the notable shortages in essential 
goods and other fast-moving items, 
particularly in the first half of the year, the 
business continued to proactively ramp up 
its direct sourcing strategy, including the 
sourcing of import products with the aim 
of bridging inventory gaps and providing 
its customers with such products at the 
best possible value.
	y
The business significantly increased 
penetration of its private label range in 
order to manage inventory better and to 
provide customers with alternative ‘value 
for money’ options, which is an important 
decision driver for consumers, particularly 
in a high inflationary environment. The 
private label range is priced 10% lower 
than products listed with JMSL. 
•	
During the year under review, 29 new 
‘Keells’ private label products were 
launched. However, certain SKUs 
had to be temporarily halted due 
to aforementioned challenges and 
shortages, resulting in the total SKU 
count at ~290 products as at 31 March 
2023 [2021/22: ~340 SKUs]. 
•	
Private label products accounted for 5% 
of revenue in 2022/23 [2021/22: 5%].
	y
During fuel shortages, the DC played 
a crucial role in centralising stocks and 
facilitating better stock management, 
resulting in an efficient management of 
transportation costs.
	y
Continuous negotiations with suppliers 
were held on sourcing essential SKUs 
in order to manage availability and 
affordability of items. JMSL demarcated 
specific teams for forward buying and to 
continuously engage in procuring stocks at 
an early stage, bulk buying and minimise 
the risk of stock-outs. 
	y
The Supermarket business managed to 
re-negotiate margins with suppliers and 
mitigate the impact of SSCL to a large extent.
	y
JMSL also entered into forward buying 
contracts for building materials and other 
items required for the construction of 
‘Keells’ outlets in the pipeline, where 
possible and feasible.
	y
Various measures were rolled to manage the 
liquidity requirement on foreign exchange 
including the promotion of foreign currency 
receipts through the online sales platforms 
and counters at outlets.

60 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
Despite the challenges outlined above, the business recorded growth in both footfall and average 
basket value (ABV) as depicted by the table below. For better insight to the business operations, it 
is pivotal to understand the quarterly movements of the below key performance indicators: 
%
2022/23
2021/22
Same store footfall growth 
28.3
4.5
ABV growth 
15.1
8.0
Same store sales growth 
47.6
12.9
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
RETAIL
INSIGHTS
The table below provides the quarterly trend of key performance 
indicators. Given the pandemic-related disruptions, unprecedented 
inflation and change in shopping patterns resulting in shifts in 
frequency, basket items, and purchase patterns of customers, the 
statistics on footfall, sales growth, and basket values were distorted 
during the last few years.
2022/23 (%)
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Same store footfall growth 
52.2
76.9
11.1
0.1
ABV growth 
1.4
(1.8)
26.5
30.0
Same store sales growth 
54.2
73.7
40.6
30.1
Same Store Footfall Growth 
	y
The business witnessed a conversion from general trade to modern 
trade, particularly in the first half of the year, given the ability for 
modern trade to ensure less disruptions to its supply chains through 
better management of its inventory and working capital. The ability 
to pass on benefits to consumers due to the scale of operations also 
aided the business. It should be noted that the first half of 2021/22 was 
impacted by outlet closures during periods of pandemic-related travel 
restrictions, which was offset to an extent by an increase in online sales. 
	y
During the third quarter of the year under review, the business 
continued to onboard new customers into the ‘Nexus’ loyalty 
programme. Growth was driven by seasonal sales, improved 
availability of items and continued demand towards modern trade. 
	y
Given that footfall in the fourth quarter of 2021/22 had already 
reverted to pre-pandemic levels and was in line with normalised 
operations, the footfall growth in the fourth quarter of the year 
under review was marginal. 
(10)
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
Q1 FY23
Q2 FY23
Q3 FY23
Q4 FY23
NCPI (YoY)
ABV
Average Basket Value Growth
Average Basket Value Growth
(%)
(%)
Q4 FY22
49.2
59.2
73.7
58.9
21.5
1.6
1.4
(1.8)
26.5
30.0
	y
The average basket value is derived based on the weight of 
purchase (WOP) and the retail selling price (RSP), with the WOP and 
inflation having an inverse relationship.
	y
During the first quarter of the year under review, the WOP dropped 
on account of reduced purchase of non-essential items due to 
notable inflation. The national consumer price index (NCPI) moved 
from 21.5% as at March 2022 to 58.9% as at June 2022. The increase 
in inflation resulted in an increase in the RSP, which in turn led 
to a ABV of 1.4% compared to the previous year, which recorded 
high basket values on account of online sales during Covid-19 
lockdowns. 
	y
The RSP increased in tandem with inflation whilst the WOP 
dropped inversely due to the reduction in spending on non-
essential items during the second quarter of 2022/23 impacting 
the ABV growth. 
	y
Despite inflation dropping from 73.7% in September 2022 to 59.2% 
in December 2022, the imposition of taxes on products resulted 
in an increase in the RSP. Despite the drop in the WOP on account 
of macroeconomic challenges, this was more than offset by the 
significant increases in RSP, which resulted in a net positive impact 
on the ABV.
	y
The ABV of the fourth quarter of the year under review continued to 
reflect the same trend witnessed in the third quarter of 2022/23, with 
the drop in the WOP offset fully by the increase in the RSP.
Same Store Sales Growth 
	y
During the first half of 2022/23, the business recorded an increase 
in same store sales despite the challenging operating conditions. 
However, it is important to note that the comparative quarters of 
the previous year were impacted by pandemic-related disruptions. 
	y
Same store sales grew during the third quarter of 2022/23 given the 
impact of high inflation and indirect tax increases on prices of items, 
notwithstanding the higher base. The third quarter of 2021/22 was 
characterised by higher same store sales on the back of the easing of 
restrictions resulting in the improvement of consumer sentiment and 
‘pent up’ demand. This also translated to higher same store sales in the 
fourth quarter of 2021/22. 
	y
Despite inflation moderating during the fourth quarter of 2022/23, 
prices remained relatively higher compared to the same quarter in 
the previous year, which resulted in an increase in same store sales 
during this period.
The ABV of the fourth quarter 
of the year under review 
continued to reflect the same 
trend witnessed in the third 
quarter of 2022/23, with the 
drop in the WOP offset fully by 
the increase in the RSP.

61
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
Outlet Expansion
During the year under review, the expansion 
of the outlet network was moderated due to 
the uncertainty and volatility of construction 
related costs. While the investment per outlet 
has increased significantly, the business is also 
seeing higher revenue per outlet which will in 
turn positively impact the feasibility studies of 
prospective outlets. During the year, four new 
outlets were opened whilst one outlet was 
closed, increasing the total outlet count to 131 
outlets as of 31 March 2023. The business will 
continue to selectively expand its network, 
and such expansions in the outlet base will 
be considered on a case-by-case basis, with 
feasibilities stress-tested under sensitised 
scenarios. 
In line with the brand expansion plans of the 
Supermarket business, where the business 
leverages on a standard and an extended 
format depending on the income levels of the 
locality, three outlets were upgraded to the 
extended ‘iconic’ format during the year under 
review. This concept for select ‘Keells’ outlets, 
is aimed at enhancing the overall customer 
experience through best-in-class retail 
technological solutions and a wider offering. 
Despite the additional investment associated 
with the conversion of the standard format 
outlets to the extended format, the payback 
on these investments based on incremental 
performance has been attractive. The outlets 
opened are similar to the first outlet opened at 
Lauries Road, Colombo, in December 2021.
Technology Offerings
Food and Beverages Offerings 
‘Scan & Go’ technology
‘Kafe’ serving coffee, snacks 
and other beverages
Self-checkout capability
Chef’s counter serving  
ready-to-eat meals
Digital automated price tags
Make your own pizza counter
Self-weighing scale
Self-ordering kiosks for food
The business will continue to closely review and selectively expand its network considering the 
uncertainty and volatility on construction-related costs. Such expansions of the outlet base will be 
considered on a case-by-case basis, with feasibilities stress-tested under sensitised scenarios.
Product and Process Initiatives
	y
Distribution Centre (DC)
•	
The state-of-the-art centralised DC in Kerawalapitiya, which commenced operations in January 
2022, played a critical role in streamlining operations and ensuring inventory management 
across fresh, dry, and chilled categories. This was particularly important to navigate through the 
challenges stemming from macroeconomic conditions, such as fuel shortages and stock-outs.
•	
The successful transition of all three categories to the Chilled DC, which commenced 
operating from June 2022, further enhanced operational efficiencies. However, the 
DC operations faced significant supply disruptions stemming from importers and 
manufacturers of goods. 
	y
Advanced analytics transformation programme 
•	
During the year under review, identified use cases were fully rolled out, with pilot projects 
delivering evidence of significant value that can be unlocked from translating advanced 
analytics insights into front line business interventions.  
•	
The effects of the adverse macroeconomic conditions on business operations necessitated a 
review of the timing of piloting and rolling out of select use cases. Despite these challenges, 
several use cases were successfully piloted, scaled and deployed.
•	
The use cases included personalised promotions to customers and determination of the 
optimum order quantity, amongst others.
The new fresh produce collection centre at Nuwara Eliya.
Offerings at ‘Keells’ extended ‘iconic’ format.

62 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
Office Automation 
The Office Automation business faced a 
number of severe challenges as a result of the 
macroeconomic crisis. These included import 
restrictions on non-essential items such as 
mobile phones and laptops, constraints on 
opening letters of credit due to the foreign 
exchange shortage and substantial increases 
in product pricing due to inflationary pressures 
and the steep depreciation of the Rupee. 
Additionally, the business had to endure 
notable delays in the supply chain due to 
shortages of imported components from 
principals. The copier and printer business 
segment similarly experienced a challenging 
period.
Despite these challenges, the Office 
Automation business was able to secure 
inventory and successfully launch new 
products to the market, surpassing its 
competitors. The business carried out 
digitisation initiatives during the year under 
review, including a website revamp and 
further augmenting automation and reporting 
tools that enable data-driven decision making. 
With the gradual stabilisation of the foreign 
currency liquidity position of the country since 
the third quarter of 2022/23, the volumes of 
the Office Automation business recorded a 
gradual improvement.  
	y
Awarded the ‘Special Sales 
Achievement’ award by ViewSonic 
Taiwan.
AWARDS
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
RETAIL
	y
Collection centres
•	
The business undertook initiatives aimed at expanding sourcing locations to enhance the 
availability of products and provide consumers with better pricing options. As a part of 
these efforts, the business established collection centres in Adhikarigama and Kuda Oya.
•	
Further, in April 2023, a new fresh produce collection centre at Nuwara Eliya was opened 
with a fully automated vegetable washing line and drying machine.
	y
The business commenced direct exports of fresh produce in September 2022. 
	y
Several new features were introduced at select outlets during the period under review. These 
features included a ‘self-weighing scale’, which allows customers to weigh items themselves, 
with a visual guided interface that makes the process user-friendly. In addition, the business 
replaced traditional price labels on shelves with digital automated price tags that update in 
real-time. This has resulted in an efficient and accurate price update process, as well as reduced 
printing costs.
	y
The adoption of cloud-enabled development has aided the deployment speed and scalability, 
where the business is able to scale up resources to handle seasonal loads and spikes in demand 
while monitoring costs.  
	y
The business continued to focus on an omni-channel strategy to cater to different customer 
segments and needs.
	y
Ranked as the ‘Strongest Brand in Sri Lanka 2022’ for the first time in its history and the 
‘Most Valuable Supermarket Brand 2022’ for the fourth consecutive year by Brand Finance 
Sri Lanka.
	y
Winner of the ‘Sustainable Initiative of the Year’, ‘Supermarket of the Year’ and ‘Store Design 
of the Year’ in the large category at the Retail Asia Awards 2022. 
	y
Bronze award – ‘Agile Brand of the Year’ at SLIM Brand Excellence Awards 2022.
	y
Bronze award – ‘Best Use of Technology in Marketing’ and ‘Cross Media Integration’ at SLIM 
Digis.
	y
Recognised as one of Sri Lanka’s ‘Outstanding Women Friendly Workplaces’ by the 
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPM) and Chartered Institute of 
Management Accountants (CIMA) and the winner in the honorary category ‘She Grows’ at 
the ‘Women Work Friendly Awards 2022’.
AWARDS
Identified use cases were 
fully rolled out, with pilot 
projects delivering evidence 
of significant value that can 
be unlocked from translating 
advanced analytics insights 
into front line business 
interventions.
JKOA showroom at the One Galle Face Mall.

63
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
Contribution to the John Keells Group
13%
8%
55%
38%
Revenue
EBIT
Capital Employed
Carbon Footprint
LEISURE
Industry Group Structure 
Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort*
An iconic integrated resort, currently in development, which is 
envisaged to transform Colombo’s tourism offering.
	y
‘Cinnamon Life Colombo’, an 800-guest room hotel which 
includes 3 ballrooms, 7 meeting rooms, exhibition hall and a 
conference hall.  
	y
Mall and entertainment space.
Colombo Hotels
	y
Two hotels offering ~24% of the five-star room capacity of 
Colombo.
•	
‘Cinnamon Grand Colombo’ - 501 rooms.
•	
‘Cinnamon Lakeside Colombo’ - 346 rooms.
	y
‘Cinnamon Red Colombo’, a select service hotel in Colombo – 
243 rooms.
	y
24 restaurants run across the three properties.
Sri Lankan Resorts 
	y
Resorts spread across prime tourist locations in Sri Lanka, 
leveraging on the natural diversity of the country. 
•	
8 resort hotels.
•	
1,022 rooms.
Maldivian Resorts
	y
 Resorts located across the Maldives offering unique experiences. 
•	
4 resort hotels. 
•	
454 rooms.
*The two residential apartment towers and the office tower of the ‘Cinnamon Life 
Integrated Resort’ is captured under the Property industry group review.
	y
Cinnamon Hotel Management Limited (CHML), the hotel 
management arm of the Leisure industry group.
	y
Two destination management companies in Sri Lanka:
•	
Walkers Tours 
•	
Whittall Boustead Travel
Hotel Management
Destination Management
Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts
Inputs (Rs.million)
2022/23
2021/22
%
2020/21
Total assets
 364,081 
 121,567 
 199 
 98,324 
Total equity
 220,207 
 59,539 
 270 
 52,907 
Total debt1
 102,439 
 28,634 
 258 
20,743
Capital employed2
 345,455 
 110,782 
 212 
 89,765 
Employees3 (No.)
 4,430 
 4,195 
 6 
 3,819 
Outputs (Rs.million)
2022/23
2021/22
%
2020/21
Revenue4
 39,859 
 18,962 
 110 
 5,374 
EBIT
 2,637 
 (46)
 5,848 
 (7,336)
PBT
 (430)
 (1,281)
 66 
 (8,527)
PAT
 (354)
 (1,302)
 73 
 (7,598)
EBIT per employee
 1 
 (0)
 5,543 
 (2)
Carbon footprint (MT)
 39,237 
 32,018 
 23 
 24,360 
1. Excludes lease liabilities.
2.	For equity accounted investees, capital employed is representative of the Group’s 
equity investment in these companies. This is inclusive of lease liabilities.
3. As per the sustainability reporting boundary.
4. Revenue is inclusive of the Group’s share of equity accounted investees.

64 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
Macroeconomic Update – Sri Lanka
Industry Highlights
	y
The arrival momentum witnessed in 2021/22 was hampered as a 
result of social unrest and political upheaval, particularly in the first 
half of the year under review.
0
30
60
90
120
150
Arrivals  (’000)
Tourist Arrivals to Sri Lanka
Jan 22
Feb 22
Mar 22
Apr 22
May 22
Jun 22
Jul 22
Aug 22
Sep 22
Oct 22
Nov 22
Dec 22
Jan 23
Feb 23
Mar 23
Apr 23
82
103
97
107
108
125
105
92
63
30
33
47
30
42
60
CY22
CY23
38
•	
Tourist arrivals, which gained steady momentum from late 
CY2021 were hampered from March 2022 onwards, on the 
back of macroeconomic and socio-political tensions, and the 
resultant negative publicity and travel advisories issued by 
major source markets. The Russia-Ukraine crisis and the outward 
travel ban in China also exacerbated the impact and hindered 
the recovery in tourist arrivals.
•	
Tourist arrivals noted a gradual recovery from October 2022 
onwards in tandem with the improvement in the domestic 
macroeconomy.  
•	
Tourist arrivals to Sri Lanka stood at 719,978 for CY2022, an 
increase against the previous year [CY2021: 194,495 arrivals], 
although still significantly below pre-pandemic levels. 
•	
Total arrivals from January to March 2023 stood at 335,679 
arrivals, an 18% increase against the 285,334 arrivals recorded in 
the corresponding period of last year. 
•	
Key source markets driving arrivals during CY2022 were India, 
followed by Russia, the United Kingdom, Germany, and France. 
•	
For 2022/23, tourist arrivals stood at 770,323 arrivals, a 64% 
increase against the 470,200 arrivals recorded in 2021/22.
	y
Sri Lanka resumed the visa-on-arrival facility for a majority of 
international travellers from January 2022 onwards.
Key Policy and Regulatory Highlights 
	y
In August 2022, the Government gazetted the regulations under 
the Casino Business (Regulations) Act of 2010 to formalise the 
process of issuing licences and monitoring casino operations in 
Sri Lanka and cited thereafter as the Casino Business Licensing 
Regulation No. 1 of 2022.
•	
The new law outlines the procedure for application or renewal 
of a licence, matters to be considered in evaluation of an 
application, licence fee applicable, the grant of licence or its 
cancellation or surrender, obligations of the licence holder 
including the appointment of compliance officers, among 
others.
•	
The fee for a licence or for the renewal of a licence for a period 
of five years or any part thereof is Rs.500 million. The license 
may be applied for a period spanning multiples of five years up 
to a maximum of 20 years.
	y
The concessionary corporate income tax rate of 14% applicable 
on businesses engaged in tourism was revised to the standard 
corporate income tax rate of 30% with effect from 1 October 2022.
Awards
Sri Lanka continued to gain traction during the year, securing 
numerous awards and accolades:
	y
Listed as one of the ‘23 Best Places to Visit in 2023’ by Forbes 
Magazine.
	y
Recognised among the ‘Top 20 Places to Travel 2022’ by Readers’ 
Choice awards by Conde Nast Traveller.
	y
Placed amongst ‘Best Destinations to Travel in 2023’ by 
Independent Magazine – UK.
	y
Accredited as ‘One of the World’s Safest Countries to Travel’ by 
Worldpackers.
External Environment and Operational Review
Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts
The tourism industry of Sri Lanka has faced 
a multitude of challenges over the past four 
consecutive years, from the Easter Sunday 
terror attacks in April 2019, the Covid-19 
pandemic thereafter, and most recently, the 
domestic macroeconomic and socio-political 
crisis. Although there were no pandemic 
induced disruptions during the year under 
review, the tourism industry continued to face 
various headwinds on the back of a volatile 
and uncertain domestic macroeconomic 
environment.
LEISURE
‘Cinnamon Bentota Beach’.

65
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
Despite the volatile operational landscape, the Sri Lankan Leisure businesses recorded positive 
progress during the year, albeit off a lower base as the comparative year included the impacts of 
the Covid-19 pandemic. Given that rooms are priced in USD, the steep depreciation of the Rupee 
in March 2022 translated to better top line performance of the businesses. Margins in the Sri 
Lankan Leisure businesses were under pressure given the rising input and utility costs as yields did 
not pick up commensurately since the benefit of foreign currency revenue was limited due to the 
gradual recovery of tourism.   
In tandem with the gradual improvement in macroeconomic conditions in the fourth quarter of 
2022/23, the resultant relaxation of travel advisories and the ground situation gradually reverting 
to levels of normalcy, tourist arrivals recorded a notable pick up. The recovery trend in arrivals 
is expected to continue, particularly given the opening of the Chinese borders for international 
travel in January 2023 after a period of three years and the increase in frequencies of flights by a 
few major airlines. Sri Lanka continues to remain attractive as a tourist destination given its diverse 
landscape and unique offerings, with the added competitive advantage from a pricing perspective 
due to the significant depreciation of the Rupee.
	y
Gold award – ‘Best CSR Project 2022’ at the Pacific Asia Travel Association (PATA) awards.
	y
Gold award – ‘Sustaining Employees and Communities through the Pandemic’ at the World 
Travel Market (WTM) Responsible Tourism awards.
	y
Silver award – ‘Best Performance Digital Marketing Campaign’ at the SLIM Digis 2.2. 
AWARDS
Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort 
Completion Timelines and Offerings
INSIGHTS
The key challenges faced by the Sri 
Lankan Leisure businesses during the year:
	y
The social unrest witnessed in Sri Lanka, 
driven by economic and political 
instability in the country, particularly 
in the first quarter of 2022/23, resulted 
in several source markets issuing travel 
advisories, which resulted in a decline in 
foreign tourist arrivals.
	y
Significant reduction in skilled staff 
at hotels and challenges in sourcing 
labour, primarily due to labour 
migration triggered by the socio-
economic environment in the country. 
	y
Domestic tourism was impacted due 
to social unrest, fuel shortages, as well 
as lower disposable income amongst 
households.  
	y
The reimposition of the value added 
tax (VAT) on the leisure industry and 
the introduction of the social security 
contribution levy (SSCL) had an 
adverse impact on the rates offered to 
customers. 
	y
Regular power outages for most parts 
of the year, higher fuel costs and the 
imposition of higher electricity tariffs 
increased utility costs of businesses.
	y
Record high inflation which persisted 
during the year exerted cost pressures 
and impacted margins; this also 
impacted customer sentiment and 
demand for leisure offerings. 
	y
The increase in personal income tax 
rates in the fourth quarter of the year 
under review also contributed to a 
reduction in discretionary customer 
spending as outlined above.
	y
The slowdown in global growth on the 
back of cost of living pressures coupled 
with the high cost of air travel exerted 
pressure on arrivals.
	y
The ongoing conflict between Russia 
and Ukraine and the outward travel 
ban imposed on China during most 
parts of the year dampened global 
travel demand.
	y
The high interest rate regime exerted 
pressure on funding costs, primarily 
on loan facilities obtained to navigate 
the unprecedented challenges 
encountered by the leisure industry 
since April 2019.
Hotel - ‘Cinnamon Life Colombo’
The construction of the two 
residential and office towers are 
complete, and handed over.
Operations in 
the third quarter 
of 2024/25
‘The Offices at 
Cinnamon Life’
Hotel - ‘Cinnamon 
Life Colombo’
Car Park
Entertainment 
and Retail
‘The Suites at 
Cinnamon Life’
‘The Residence at 
Cinnamon Life’
Note: The two residential apartment towers and the office tower 
of the ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’ are captured under the 
Property industry group review.
800 guest rooms
6 restaurants
exhibition hall 
5 bars
conference hall
3 pool bars
4 wellness and 
fitness centres
3 ballrooms
7 meeting rooms
2 lounges
4 pools
retail mall ~149,000 Sq. Ft of rentable space 
entertainment space ~160,000 Sq. Ft

66 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
LEISURE
The development of the hotel ‘Cinnamon 
Life Colombo’ and retail and entertainment 
components are progressing well with the 
fitouts and interior decorating of the hotel 
rooms and common areas well underway 
with ~500 rooms already completed. The 
‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’ is envisaged 
to be operational in the third quarter of 
2024/25.
Refer the Property industry group review for a 
detailed discussion of progress, timelines and 
construction cost.
Cinnamon Life Colombo
Given that the operations of the hotel, 
‘Cinnamon Life Colombo’ are envisaged to 
commence in the third quarter of 2024/25, 
the business continued to place emphasis 
on increasing awareness on the product and 
its offerings internationally. Various activities 
including participation in trade fairs, interviews 
and briefings to travel publications and direct 
marketing to selected market segments have 
commenced in promoting the product and 
the ‘Cinnamon Life’ brand. ‘Cinnamon Life 
Integrated Resort’ was formally launched at 
the Arabian Travel Market 2023 held in May 
with significant awareness and interest being 
generated.
The business, in the recent years, has put in 
place a management team with significant 
experience, both internationally and locally, in 
launching and managing integrated resorts of a 
similar nature. In furtherance of this, during the 
year under review, initiatives were also rolled 
out to attract employees, with the requisite 
skills to operate ‘Cinnamon Life Colombo’. 
Implementing training and skill development 
platforms continued to be a key priority 
during the year, given the dynamic challenges 
entailing a project of this scale and offering.
Retail
Discussions with potential tenants of the retail mall continued during the year, to ensure unique 
attractions and offerings, although arrangements were not finalised pending clarity on the gaming 
operator and related strategy. Various alternatives including experiential offerings focused on food 
and beverages (F&B), lifestyle and entertainment, which would complement the hotel and gaming 
operations, are being considered for the retail space. 
Entertainment
Subsequent to the gazetting of the gaming regulations by the Government in August 2022, the 
Group is currently engaged in discussions with some leading international gaming operators 
to secure the necessary international gaming expertise to operate at ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated 
Resort’. A lot of groundwork has been carried out by the parties, including detailed site visits, 
evaluation of the business case and operating model, fitout requirements, designs and timelines. 
The discussions are progressing well, where various commercial structures and arrangements are 
being negotiated. In the event ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’ is unable to obtain favourable 
terms to the Group’s satisfaction, as an alternative, the Group will work on a model where the 
gaming entity sources the requisite international gaming expertise to operate at ‘Cinnamon 
Life Integrated Resort’, similar to how some other successful regional integrated resorts have 
established operations.
The envisaged structure of the gaming operations is that ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’ will 
lease space to the gaming entity, while a third party will invest in the gaming fitout. Based on 
discussions, it is estimated that the overall fitout of the gaming space will take a period of ~12-15 
months once the commercial aspects and agreements are finalised. We are confident that the 
convergence of all elements in the launch of the integrated resort will unlock its full potential as 
a transformative development in South Asia and be a catalyst in creating tourism demand and 
foreign exchange earnings for Sri Lanka.
Refer the Property industry group for a discussion on the construction progress and residential and office 
components of the ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’. - page 69.
Colombo Hotels 
In line with the overall industry, the Colombo Hotels segment was significantly impacted by the 
domestic macroeconomic crisis and the resultant downturn in foreign business travel including 
meetings, incentives, conferences and exhibitions (MICE) events, which led to a decline in 
occupancies and room rates. In tandem with the gradual resumption of tourism and business travel, 
the hotels witnessed a slow recovery in occupancy, with revenue per available room (RevPAR) 
measuring well against competition particularly in the fourth quarter of the year under review. 
Colombo Hotels
2022/23
2022/23
2021/22
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Average Room Rate (USD)
68
62
65
63
64
70
Occupancy (%)
33
29
43
62
42
29
Note: 
•	 Average Room Rates (ARRs) and Occupancy excludes ‘Cinnamon Red Colombo’ and ‘Cinnamon Life Colombo’.
•	 Given market circumstances and demand during 2022/23, the business only operated 242 rooms of ‘Cinnamon 
Grand Colombo’, and the indicators reflected above are on a base of 242 operational rooms. 
Pressure on ARRs primarily stemmed from the performance of ‘Cinnamon Lakeside Colombo’; 
‘Cinnamon Grand Colombo’ commanded an ARR of ~USD 83 during the year, given the demand 
for MICE and the corporate segments.
Notwithstanding the challenges in the domestic economy, the restaurant and banqueting 
operations recorded a strong performance, driven primarily by domestic demand. The number of 
events and banquets also noted a steady uptick across the quarters while restaurant operations 
also recorded encouraging growth in covers in line with pre-pandemic levels of activity.
‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’.

67
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
Sri Lankan Resorts 
The impact of the challenging macroeconomic environment on the Sri Lankan Resorts segment 
was twofold: 
	y
domestic tourism noted a significant decline on the back of a reduction in domestic spending 
power as well as the fuel shortages which curtailed domestic travel. 
	y
foreign tourist arrivals were limited following the adverse travel advisories issued and the 
continued negative perceptions on the ground situation even post relative normalisation. 
Against this backdrop, the segment experienced a decline in occupancies and ARRs. However, 
with more clarity on the macroeconomic front, easing of travel advisories and the resumption of 
tourism activities, in the fourth quarter of the year under review, the segment witnessed a rebound 
in occupancies, and to a lesser extent, ARRs. The segment witnessed a significant growth in RevPAR 
in the second half of the year under review.
Sri Lankan Resorts
2022/23
2022/23
2021/22
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Average Room Rate (USD)
66
57
63
71
65
78
Occupancy (%)
33
31
38
62
41
32
The construction of ‘Cinnamon Red Kandy’, a joint venture with Indra Traders (Private) Limited, 
continued during the year despite the various challenges emanating from the domestic 
macroeconomic environment. These included issues in sourcing and mobilising labour, and escalations 
in construction costs primarily driven by the steep depreciation of the Rupee. The capital deployed 
for the project will be based on an asset-light investment model and the Group will maintain a 40% 
minority equity stake in line with this strategy. The management of the hotel will fall under the purview 
of the Hotel Management sector. The hotel, which is an extension under the select service segment of 
‘Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts’, is expected to be completed in the in 2024/25 and will feature 216 rooms, 
amenities such as an expansive rooftop bar and a swimming pool, amongst others.
South Asian Travel Awards 2022 (SATA):
	y
Gold award – ‘Leading Riverfront Hotel/
Resort’ - ‘Cinnamon Citadel Kandy’
	y
Silver award - ‘Leading Wildlife Lodge’ - 
‘Cinnamon Wild Yala’
	y
Silver award - ‘Leading Beachfront 
Resort’ - ‘Cinnamon Bey Beruwala’
AWARDS
With more clarity on the 
macroeconomic front, easing 
of travel advisories and 
the resumption of tourism 
activities, in the fourth quarter 
of the year under review, the 
Sri Lankan Resorts segment 
witnessed a rebound in 
occupancies, and to a lesser 
extent, ARRs. The segment 
witnessed a significant growth 
in RevPAR in the second half of 
the year under review.
Macroeconomic Update – The Maldives 
	y
The economy of the Maldives noted a 12.3% increase in gross 
domestic product (GDP) during CY2022, driven by the continued 
recovery in tourism on the back of lifted border restrictions. Whilst 
inflation has remained relatively low due to Government price 
controls and stable local currency, given that it is pegged to the 
USD, high external debt continued to pose a risk given tighter 
global financial conditions, reduced external liquidity and a deep 
current account deficit.
	y
The Maldives recorded a 27% increase in arrivals with a total of 1.7 
million tourist arrivals in CY2022, rebounding to pre-pandemic 
levels [CY2021: 1.3 million arrivals, CY2019: 1.7 million arrivals]. 
0
50
100
150
200
Arrivals  (’000)
Tourist Arrivals to the Maldives
2022
2023
132
172
149
178
151
174
164
145
126
111
134
132
112
154
147
184
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
	y
Key source markets driving arrivals during CY2022 were India, 
followed by Russia, the United Kingdom, Germany, and Italy. 
	y
The drop in arrivals from China, Maldives’ largest source market 
historically, on account of various challenges in Chinese outbound 
travel, was offset through new source markets such as India and 
Russia.
	y
The momentum in arrivals continued with 523,928 tourists visiting 
the Maldives between January and March 2023. This translates 
to an 21% growth against the comparative quarter [2021/22 Q4: 
431,524 tourist arrivals]. 
	y
Given challenges in procuring labour, material and project delays 
on account of the Covid-19 pandemic, the construction of the new 
international passenger terminal at the Velana International Airport 
is expected to be complete in CY2025. 

68 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
LEISURE
Maldivian Resorts 
The Maldivian Resorts segment continued its strong performance with occupancies exceeding 
pre-pandemic levels on average, supported by arrivals from both traditional and new source 
markets. As evident from the table below, the segment recorded an encouraging performance 
across the quarters, with occupancies recorded significantly above the industry average of 59% 
for CY2022. 
Maldivian Resorts
2022/23
2022/23
2021/22
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Average Room Rate (USD)
333
316
372
416
360
333
Occupancy (%)
86
86
91
89
88
75
With the onset of restrictions on Chinese outbound travel, active measures were adopted by the 
segment to attract other source markets such as India, Russia, the United Kingdom, Germany, 
Italy and Australia to compensate for the shortfall of Chinese tourists; especially given China’s 
positioning as one of the main source markets for the Maldives. 
The segment adopted an increase in ARRs from the fourth quarter of 2022/23 onwards, in order 
to address significant cost pressures, maintain operational efficiencies and retain its brand 
positioning. The increase in minimum wages from January 2022, coupled with the rise in fuel 
costs, were some of the key cost pressures affecting the Maldivian tourism industry, to which, the 
Maldivian Resorts segment was no exception.
‘Cinnamon’ Events 
‘Cinnamon’ events were curtailed in the 
year under review given the challenging 
macroeconomic environment. ‘Cinnamon 
Hotels & Resorts’ together with Walkers 
Tours and Sri Lankan Airlines presented the 
7th edition of ‘Treasure Hunt 2022’ (Chasse 
Aux Tresors) to revive French tourism in 
Sri Lanka. 60 French travel agents participated 
in the tour visiting key tourist destinations in 
the country.
Destination Management 
The domestic macroeconomic crisis had 
a negative impact on the Destination 
Management segment due to the reduced 
number of tourist arrivals, the increase in fuel 
costs and negative publicity surrounding travel 
to Sri Lanka. During the year under review, 
Walkers Tours continued to establish ties with 
key Indian inbound travel partners with the 
aim of strengthening regional networks and 
widening its presence in the Indian market. To 
this end, Walkers Tours signed up with strategic 
partners in the southern part of India and 
further strengthened the luxury and wellness 
offerings under its sub brands ‘Artravele’ and 
‘Ayu’ by engaging in focused sales visits and 
familiarisation tours targeting high-end travel 
agencies and wellness operators. Walkers Tours 
also extended its Eastern European marketing 
strategy by acquiring new agents.
	y
Walkers Tours retained the title of 
‘Sri Lanka’s Leading Destination 
Management Company 2022’, for the 
3rd consecutive year at the World Travel 
Awards 2022.
AWARDS
	y
‘Cinnamon Hakuraa Huraa Maldives’ was awarded the ‘Red Star’ award by DER Touristik 
Deutschland.
AWARDS
Hotel Management 
‘Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts’ renewed its strategic direction, ‘Cinnamantra’, where a new purpose 
with seven associated core values; greatness, compassion, agility, well-being, inclusivity, trust, and 
curiosity, were rolled out during the year under review. Direct distribution channels were further 
strengthened by setting up global sales offices in key destination markets and establishing a 
global contact centre to facilitate direct customer communication. 
During the year under review, several social media tourism promotional campaigns such as 
‘Home2Cinnamon’, ‘Visit Sri Lanka’ and ‘Be Inspired’ were carried out with the goal of enticing 
tourists to return to Sri Lanka and stay at ‘Cinnamon’ properties. The Group continued to work 
towards elevating the ‘Cinnamon’ brand proposition and is currently in the process of re-
positioning the brand in line with the brand strategy and purpose.
The 7th edition of ‘Treasure Hunt 2022’ (Chasse Aux Tresors) presented by ‘Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts’ together with 
Walkers Tours and Sri Lankan Airlines.

69
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
PROPERTY
Industry Group Structure 
Contribution to the John Keells Group
	y
Development and sale of properties under four segments; ‘Luxe 
Spaces’, ‘Metropolitan Spaces’, ‘Suburban Spaces’ and ‘Leisure 
linked Developments’.
	y
Ongoing projects:
•	
‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’*, which includes:
	-
The development and sale of two residential apartment 
towers; ‘The Suites at Cinnamon Life’ and ‘The Residence at 
Cinnamon Life’. 
	-
The development and sale/rental of units of the office 
tower, ‘The Offices at Cinnamon Life’.
•	
‘TRI-ZEN’, a residential apartment development based on 
smart living in the heart of the city.
	y
Previous residential apartment projects: ‘OnThree20’, ‘7th Sense on 
Gregory’s Road’, ‘Monarch’, and ‘Emperor’.
	y
Development of holiday homes at ‘Victoria Golf and Country 
Resort’ in Rajawella, Kandy.
*The 800-room hotel, retail and entertainment spaces of the ‘Cinnamon Life 
Integrated Resort’ is captured under the Leisure industry group review.
	y
Rental of commercial office space.
	y
Management of the Group’s real estate within the city.
	y
Ownership and operation of the ‘Crescat Boulevard’ mall and 
‘K-Zone’ malls in Moratuwa and Ja-Ela.
	y
Operation of the 18-hole champion golf course and 
management of the land bank in Rajawella, Kandy.
Property Management
1%
-1%
14%
1%
Revenue
EBIT
Capital Employed
Carbon Footprint
Property Development
Inputs (Rs.million)
2022/23
2021/22
%
2020/21
Total assets
 94,321 
 276,754 
 (66)
 196,882 
Total equity
 88,347 
 166,895 
 (47)
 108,406 
Total debt1
 1,161 
 102,260 
 (99)
 59,492 
Capital employed2
 89,509 
 269,155 
 (67)
 167,898 
Employees3 (No.)
 288 
 260 
 11 
 272 
Outputs (Rs.million)
2022/23
2021/22
%
2020/21
Revenue4
 4,577 
 41,476 
 (89)
 1,910 
EBIT
 (309)
 2,879 
 (111)
 (92)
PBT
 (2,135)
 (847)
 (152)
 (136)
PAT
 (2,350)
 (986)
 (138)
 (276)
EBIT per employee
 (1)
 11 
 (110)
 (0)
Carbon footprint (MT)
 832 
 802 
 4 
 770 
1. Excludes lease liabilities.
2.	For equity accounted investees, capital employed is representative of the Group’s 
equity investment in these companies. This is inclusive of lease liabilities.
3. As per the sustainability reporting boundary.
4. Revenue is inclusive of the Group’s share of equity accounted investees.

70 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
Macroeconomic Update
	y
The construction sector accounted for 7.7% of Sri Lanka’s GDP in CY2022 [CY2021: 9.0%]. 
	y
The land valuation indicator for the Colombo District, compiled by the Central Bank of Sri 
Lanka (CBSL), reached 205.2 in the second half of CY2022, a 14.8% increase against the 
comparative period [CY2021 2H: 178.7]. The residential, commercial, and industrial sub-
indices contributed to this increase.
Connectivity 
	y
The Road Development Authority requested for detailed proposals from investors who 
have expressed interest in the development of the four-lane elevated highway project 
from the New Kelani Bridge to Athurugiriya. 
Key Policy and Regulatory Highlights 
	y
The value added tax (VAT) exemption provided for the supply of condominium residential 
accommodation was removed, with effect from 31 December 2022. The supply of 
condominium residential accommodation will be liable to VAT at 15%, with effect from 1 
January 2023.  
	y
The concessionary corporate income tax rate of 14% applicable to construction services 
was revised to the standard corporate income tax rate of 30% with effect from 1 October 
2022.
	y
The Government imposed a social security contribution levy (SSCL) of 2.5% on annual taxable 
revenue exceeding Rs.120 million of taxable persons with effective from 1 October 2022.
External Environment and Operational Review
Similar to trends witnessed in the overall real estate industry of Sri Lanka, the Property industry 
group faced a challenging year on account of the volatile and uncertain macroeconomic landscape 
that prevailed during most parts of the year. Although there were no pandemic-related disruptions 
in comparison to the last two years, deteriorating disposable income, social unrest and political 
uncertainty contributed to dampening the overall sentiment of the market. The record high 
inflation which persisted during the year also exerted pressure on construction costs and business 
performance. Despite the numerous challenges encountered, the industry group continued its 
focus on completing the construction of its ongoing projects whilst continuing to evaluate the 
monetisation of the Group’s land bank to ensure a steady cycle of revenue recognition.  
INSIGHTS
The key challenges faced by the industry and Group businesses during the year:
	y
Global supply chain disruptions and import restrictions resulted in challenges in sourcing 
material which in turn impacted the construction progress of ongoing projects.
	y
The shortage of foreign exchange in Sri Lanka caused substantial delays in clearing 
imported building material and a multitude of constraints in opening letters of credit (LCs) 
for building material and similar components. 
	y
The high interest rates in the country induced a shift in funds from real estate assets to 
fixed income assets, which impacted the sales momentum of apartments.
	y
The sharp depreciation of the Rupee and the steep rise in inflation, fuel and electricity costs 
exerted pressure on construction material prices and operating costs.
	y
The adverse macroeconomic environment presented challenges in retaining and sourcing 
labour.
	y
The increase in personal income tax rates resulted in a reduction in customer buying power 
whilst the imposition of the SSCL and the charge of VAT on the sale of condominium units 
impacted demand.  
  
Notwithstanding the aforementioned 
challenges, whilst the impact on the businesses 
were more pronounced in the first three 
quarters of the year under review, there was a 
gradual revival in the demand for real estate 
assets towards the fourth quarter of the year 
under review, particularly within the suburbs 
of Colombo, given its value proposition. The 
inventory in the market is envisaged to be 
absorbed in tandem with market recovery in 
the medium-term, given the high replacement 
costs of this inventory. During the year under 
review, the Property industry group explored 
cost efficient and sustainable construction 
models for future developments. 
The commercial real estate market remained 
resilient, as A-Grade commercial spaces 
continued to command occupancy. To this 
end, the year was characterised by a gradual 
reversal in ‘work from home’ trends, where the 
workforce returned to work or transitioned to 
a hybrid work arrangement, which benefited 
occupancy. 
Mall operations were significantly affected 
by fuel shortages and rise in costs of living 
which hindered footfall. However, businesses 
witnessed a recovery in footfall during 
the latter end of the year in tandem with 
the gradual recovery in macroeconomic 
conditions. 
Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort
The construction work at the ‘Cinnamon Life 
Integrated Resort’ progressed well during 
the year under review. The residential and 
commercial towers of the ‘Cinnamon Life 
Integrated Resort’ are fully completed, and the 
hotel, branded ‘Cinnamon Life Colombo’, retail 
and entertainment components are currently 
in the final stages of construction, with fitouts 
and interior designing of the hotel rooms and 
common areas underway; ~500 rooms have 
been completed. 
Since the onset of the pandemic, the project 
encountered several unforeseen challenges 
which were exacerbated by the domestic 
macroeconomic crisis in the last 12-15 months, 
particularly in terms of labour mobilisation, 
foreign exchange constraints, clearing of 
imported materials and global supply chain 
disruptions. Whilst the contractor, in discussion 
with Waterfront Properties (Private) Limited 
(WPL), has continuously re-planned and 
re-sequenced the finishing works to meet 
the deliverables in a volatile environment, 
PROPERTY

71
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
such challenges have impacted the overall completion timelines of the project. Given the 
re-sequencing of the overall finishing works of the project along with finalising the gaming 
arrangements and designs, the revised project completion date now takes into consideration 
the alignment of the hotel and gaming space openings, to ensure the impact of the integrated 
offering is optimised to its fullest extent. Accordingly, the ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’ will 
be operational in the third quarter of 2024/25. The Group is confident that the convergence of 
all elements in the launch of the integrated resort will unlock its full potential as a transformative 
development in South Asia and be a catalyst in creating tourism demand and foreign exchange 
earnings for Sri Lanka.
Refer the Leisure industry group for a discussion on the hotel, retail and entertainment components - page 63.
Taking into consideration the aforementioned extension in completion timelines and the 
increases in the prices for the cost of finishing, fitouts, interior decor and equipment, the project 
construction costs which was projected to be ~USD 900 million, as stated in the Chairperson’s 
Message in the Annual Report of 2018/19, is now estimated to be ~10% higher.
The residential sales momentum was impacted on the back of a reduction in disposal income, 
imposition of taxes such as VAT and SSCL and volatile market conditions on account of the 
macroeconomic crisis in the country, with the impacts more pronounced in the luxury segment. 
Structure
Number of Units Sold/ 
Occupied as at 31 March 2023
‘The Suites at 
Cinnamon Life’
39-storey tower features a total of 196 
apartment units.
115 units sold.  
(60% of total sellable area)
‘The Residence at 
Cinnamon Life’
45-storey tower features a total of 231 
apartments units.
151 units sold.  
(72% of total sellable area)
‘The Offices at 
Cinnamon Life’
30-storey tower features six floors reserved 
for car park and the remaining 24 floors 
allocated for outright sales and rent.
Four floors sold outright.
The sales of ‘The Suites at Cinnamon Life’ and ‘The Residence at Cinnamon Life’ stood at 67% of the 
total sellable area. As at 31 March 2023, ~90% of the residential units sold were handed over.
Whilst the revenue of all units sold prior to the completion of the residential towers were 
recognised by 31 March 2022, it is noted that the revenue on the balance inventory of 161 units 
remains to be recognised as and when the units are sold. There was no revenue recognised in lieu 
of residential sales during the year under review, as there were no new sales on account of the 
challenging macroeconomic environment. 
Whilst revenue attributable to the sale of four commercial floors were recognised in 2021/22, 
the recognition of recurring revenue from the ten floors of ‘The Offices at Cinnamon Life’ that 
are leased out continued during the year under review. The business continued to engage with 
prospective tenants to occupy the remaining office space. 
In June 2022, WPL, the project company of the ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’, repaid the USD 
100 million six-month bridging loan facility which was obtained in December 2021 as a part of the 
refinancing package of the USD 395 million syndicate term loan facility. The USD 100 million facility 
was obtained to align the refinancing with the original maturity date of July 2022. The loan facility 
now outstanding at WPL is the USD 225 million syndicate term loan maturing in December 2026.
TRI-ZEN
‘TRI-ZEN’, a residential development project 
which is located at the heart of the city 
capitalises on the increasing demand for 
attractively priced, smart, and efficient living 
solutions. Positioned within the ‘Metropolitan 
Spaces’ segment, the project leverages on 
innovative designs, lucrative Rupee price 
points, space efficiency and the need for 
modern solutions for urban living. 
During the year under review, the project 
was presented with many challenges such as 
sourcing and mobilising labour, escalations 
in construction costs, imposition of VAT and 
SSCL on the sale of condominium units, 
among others, as a result of the challenging 
macroeconomic environment. ‘TRI-ZEN’, in 
tandem with the industry, was compelled 
to increase its prices to offset the significant 
depreciation of the Rupee. The increase in 
prices coupled with high interest rates and 
the reduction in disposable income exerted 
pressure on sales. 
‘TRI-ZEN’ Cumulative Sales and 
Purchase Agreements (SPAs)
655 SPAs
2021/22: 652 SPAs
Despite the challenging environment, 
construction at the ‘TRI-ZEN’ site continued 
to progress well, where ~75% of construction 
was completed as at the end of the year. 
Further to the completion of the structural 
work of all three towers and the ‘topping-off’ 
ceremony in January 2022, the mechanical, 
electrical, plumbing work and gondola 
installation was completed in January 
2023; ~95% of window installations were 
completed as at March 2023. Electrical and 
cable installation work, waterproofing and 
floor tiling are currently underway, with the 
overall project scheduled for completion by 
end CY2023.
The Group is confident that the 
convergence of all elements 
in the launch of the integrated 
resort will unlock its full 
potential as a transformative 
development in South Asia and 
be a catalyst in creating tourism 
demand and foreign exchange 
earnings for Sri Lanka.

72 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
PROPERTY
Rajawella Holdings Limited (RHL)
RHL possess a vast land bank within the ‘Victoria Golf and Country Resort’ in Digana, which 
includes scenic land parcels, town houses and villa developments including a golf course under 
the management of Troon International. 
Offerings at RHL
RHL Property 
Management
RHL Property Development
Peacock Valley
Sunrise Ridge
Mara Ridge
Peninsula
	y
Operation of a 
golf course in 
partnership with 
Troon International
	y
Management of 
the ‘Victoria Golf 
and Country Resort’
9 land plots 
(100% sold)
16 land plots 
with villas 
(80% sold)
4 land plots 
(100% sold)
18 land plots 
(newly 
launched)
	y
RHL Property Development – during the year under review, RHL launched ‘Peninsula’, a 
new segment which offers 18 exclusive land plots. The construction of ‘Sunrise Ridge’ villas 
progressed well during the year and is envisaged to be completed by the fourth quarter of 
2023/24. These land parcels hold prospects for future leisure linked development opportunities, 
especially given the expected appreciation of the land value with improved connectivity and 
the recovery in tourism.
	y
RHL Property Management – similar to the Leisure businesses, operations were impacted by 
the lacklustre performance in foreign tourism. Demand locally was also impacted due to fuel 
shortages and lower disposable income. 
Mall Operations
Mall operations were significantly impacted 
by the economic turmoil which prevailed 
during most parts of the year. The businesses 
continued to assess the performance of the 
malls and engaged with the tenants given the 
multitude of challenges faced. 
‘Crescat Boulevard’ which was revamped in 
November 2021, was successful in retaining 
existing tenants as well as securing new 
tenants. Occupancy at ‘Crescat Boulevard’ 
stood at an encouraging 73% at the end of 
2022/23, despite the multiple challenges 
presented during the year. The mall has 
the potential of reaching pre-pandemic 
occupancy levels in tandem with the recovery 
of the economy.
Land Banking Strategy
The contiguous 9.38 acre property of Vauxhall 
Land Developments Limited (VLDL), a fully 
owned subsidiary of the Group is one of the 
largest privately held land banks in central 
Colombo and is within a proposed zoning area 
identified under the Beira Lake Development 
Plan of the Urban Development Authority 
(UDA). The strategic location in the heart 
of Colombo city allows for a large-scale 
development with views over the Beira 
lake. This property is a part of the Group’s 
land banking strategy, where strategic land 
parcels were identified in order to capitalise 
on opportunities arising in the property 
development and property management 
industries. As outlined in the 2021/22 Annual 
Report, a development project has been 
earmarked for this property, subject to market 
conditions, to ensure a steady cycle of revenue 
recognition through the planned monetisation 
of the Group’s land bank. 
During the year under review, the Group 
also continued to explore investment 
opportunities in the emerging suburban areas 
of Colombo to enter the industry group’s 
‘Suburban Spaces’ segment, given the growing 
demand and potential in the suburban market 
on account of the high prices associated with 
residential apartments in Colombo.
Ongoing construction of villas at RHL.

73
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
FINANCIAL SERVICES
Industry Group Structure 
Inputs (Rs.million)
2022/23
2021/22
%
2020/21
Total assets
 86,475 
 74,248 
 16 
 76,080 
Total equity
 22,184 
 17,100 
 30 
 19,465 
Total debt1
 141 
 161 
 (13)
 143 
Capital employed2
 22,743 
 17,705 
 28 
 19,906 
Employees3 (No.)
 818 
 822 
 (0)
 824 
Outputs (Rs.million)
2022/23
2021/22
%
2020/21
Revenue4
 27,770 
 24,149 
 15 
 20,890 
EBIT
 6,751 
 5,000 
 35 
 3,360 
PBT
 6,751 
 4,995 
 35 
 3,360 
PAT
 5,673 
 4,314 
 32 
 2,497 
EBIT per employee
 8 
 6 
 36 
 4 
Carbon footprint (MT)
 989 
 885 
 12 
 992 
1. Excludes lease liabilities.
2.	For equity accounted investees, capital employed is representative of the Group’s 
equity investment in these companies. This is inclusive of lease liabilities.
3. As per the sustainability reporting boundary.
4. Revenue is inclusive of the Group’s share of equity accounted investees.
	y
Comprehensive life insurance solutions through Union 
Assurance PLC (UA).
	y
General insurance solutions through Fairfirst Insurance Limited 
(FIL).
	y
End-to-end banking solutions through Nations Trust Bank PLC 
(NTB).
•	
Network of branches for commercial banking. 
•	
Sole acquirer of the flagship centurion product range of 
‘American Express’ cards in Sri Lanka.
•	
Largest issuer of credit cards in Sri Lanka.
	y
Stockbroking services through a leading stockbroking company 
in Sri Lanka, John Keells Stock Brokers (Private) Limited (JKSB).  
•	
Number of trade execution relationships with high-net-worth 
individuals, institutional investors, leading foreign securities 
houses and retail clients via an online trading portal.
Banking
Stock Broking
Insurance 
Contribution to the John Keells Group
9%
20%
4%
1%
Revenue
EBIT
Capital Employed
Carbon Footprint

74 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
Macroeconomic Update
	y
Sri Lanka’s financial services industry recorded a contraction of 
11% in CY2022 [CY2021: growth of 8%], accounting for 4% of GDP 
during the year [CY2021: 5%].
Key Policy and Regulatory Highlights
	y
In April 2022, the Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL) increased the 
Standing Deposit Facility Rate (SDFR) and the Standing Lending 
Facility Rate (SLFR) by 700 basis points to 13.5% and 14.5%. Following 
this, the SDFR and SLFR was further increased by 100 basis points 
each in July 2022 and March 2023, to 15.5% and 16.5%, respectively 
to align the policy rates with the pre-requisites of the extended fund 
facility arrangement with the International Monetary Fund (IMF). 
	y
The Statutory Reserve Ratio remained at 4% during the year under 
review. 
	y
Policy interventions on market driven aspects such as interest rate 
caps continued during the year. 
	y
The CBSL rolled out regulations which sets out the expectations 
from banks in mainstreaming environmental, social and 
governance (ESG) aspects as part of its core strategy.
	y
The Financial Intelligence Unit of Sri Lanka (FIU) rolled out various 
regulations to further strengthen the governance of financial 
institutions which covered aspects such as money laundering, 
terrorist financing, suspicious transactions and customer 
authentication, among others. 
	y
The Insurance Regulatory Commission of Sri Lanka (IRCSL) issued 
several directions to strengthen the regulatory framework and to 
improve protection of current and prospective clients.
	y
The effective date for the implementation of the SLFRS 17, the 
accounting standard on Insurance Contracts, was postponed to 1 
January 2025. 
	y
The income tax rate on financial services was increased from 24% 
to 30% whilst the value added tax (VAT) rate was progressively 
increased from 8% to 15% during the year under review.
	y
A surcharge tax of 25% was imposed on companies that earned a 
taxable income over Rs.2 billion for the year of assessment 2020/21. 
	y
The Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka (SEC) 
introduced new rules pertaining to Market Institutions, Market 
Intermediaries and a Code for Collective Investment Schemes 
following the enactment of the new Securities and Exchange 
Commission Act No. 19 of 2021. The key components of the rules 
include the licensing procedure, minimum financial requirements, 
reporting and infrastructure requirements, governance structures, 
compliance and internal controls for the said market institutions 
(Exchange, Central Depository and Clearing House).
	y
The Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) enacted a change in S&P Sri 
Lanka 20 index constituents at the 2022 year-end rebalance in line 
with the S&P Dow Jones Indices.
	y
The Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022 was enacted in 
March 2022, which provides the legal framework for the protection 
of personal data in Sri Lanka, among others. 
External Environment and Operational Review
Macroeconomic Update - Insurance
	y
The insurance industry recorded total assets 
at Rs.947.26 billion in CY2022, a 7% growth 
against the previous year [CY2021: Rs.881.84 
billion], while gross written premium (GWP) 
recorded a 10% increase to Rs.257.58 billion 
[CY2021: Rs.233.51 billion]. 
	y
The life insurance industry followed a similar 
trend, recording a 9% growth in GWP during 
CY2022, which amounted to Rs.135.37 
billion [CY2021: Rs.124.75 billion]. Growth of 
the insurance industry was primarily driven 
by higher life insurance penetration at 0.8% 
of GDP [CY2021: 0.7%] given increasing 
awareness on the need for life insurance as a 
result of pandemic induced demand. 
•	
The growth in GWP was primarily driven 
by growth in single premium, regular 
new business premium and renewal 
premiums which grew by 17%, 3% and 
12%, respectively. 
Insurance 
Union Assurance (UA) recorded an 8% growth in GWP, primarily driven by a 15% growth in 
renewal premiums and a 5% increase in regular new business premiums. Accordingly, UA 
maintained its position as the second largest regular new business producer in the industry. 
CY2022 
Rs.million
Growth (%)
First year premium
4,666
5
Renewal premium
11,390
15
Single premium
185
(75)
Individual policies
16,241
8
New business premium
0.17
(18)
Renewal premium
0.26
204
Corporate policies
0.43
47
Total gross written premium
16,669
8
The agency channel continued to be the primary channel contributor to revenue 
contributing 78% to GWP and recording a 4% growth during the year under review. The 
business further strengthened its bancassurance channel which recorded a growth of 28% in 
comparison to the previous year. UA continued to strengthen its partnerships with multiple 
leading banks, consolidating its position as the market leader in the bancassurance industry 
in the country through two new partnerships and renewing an existing partnership during 
the year. The alternate channel, which acts as a complementary channel to the agency and 
bancassurance channels, recorded a growth of 12%.
FINANCIAL SERVICES

75
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
Macroeconomic Update - Banking
	y
Private sector credit contracted by 
6% in CY2022 [CY2021: growth of 
13%] which was driven by a restrictive 
monetary policy. 
	y
Total banking assets of the industry 
noted a 15% growth during CY2022 
whilst net interest income noted a 
38% growth given a faster repricing 
of loans in comparison to deposits 
industry-wide. 
	y
Banking sector Stage 3 (credit-impaired) 
loans increased to 6.5% in CY2022 
in comparison to 4.3% recorded in 
CY2021. Impairments recorded an 
increase on the back of the domestic 
macroeconomic challenges that 
prevailed during the year under review 
and the cessation of moratoriums 
implemented during the Covid-19 
pandemic period.
Net investment income recorded a 42% growth in CY2022 [CY2021: growth of 5%] as a result of an 
asset reallocation to benefit from the high interest rate environment which prevailed during the year. 
Despite the volatile market conditions, the business continued to maintain a strong solvency 
position with the Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR) at 194% as at CY2022 [CY2021: 228%]. Although 
the high interest rate environment and UA’s universal life-dominated product portfolio exerted 
pressure on the CAR, it continued to be comfortably above the minimum 120% CAR threshold 
stipulated by the IRCSL. Total assets stood at Rs.75.97 billion as at CY2022, a 7% growth against 
the comparative year [CY2021: Rs.70.76 billion]. UA’s investment portfolio stood at Rs.64.46 billion 
recording a 9% growth in CY2022 while the life fund, which is backed by reputed re-insurers with 
an international credit rating of ‘A+’ and above, recorded a 13% growth to Rs.54.88 billion.  
Underwriting and net acquisition costs increased by 11% to Rs.3.15 billion on account of growth 
in regular new business premiums. Claims and benefits to policyholders recorded a 24% increase 
to Rs.5.70 billion [CY2021: Rs.4.61 billion] on the back of challenging macroeconomic conditions 
and a comprehensive insurance policy portfolio. Surrender payouts noted a 31% increase whilst 
maturity payouts increased by 20% in accordance with the contractual obligations.
The Life Insurance business recorded a life insurance surplus of Rs.2.30 billion [CY2021: Rs.1.60 
billion] as per the actuarial valuation carried out at the end of the year, mainly arising from an 
increase in GWP, increase in net investment income and curtailment of expenses. The distribution 
of a one-off surplus of Rs.3.38 billion attributable to non-participating and non-unit fund of unit 
linked business, which was transferred from the life policyholder fund to the life shareholder fund 
in 2017/18 based on the directive dated 20 March 2018 issued by IRCSL - continues to remain 
restricted subject to meeting governance requirements stipulated by the IRCSL and can only be 
released upon receiving approval from the IRCSL. 
UA made steady progress through its SLFRS-17 steering committee to ensure strategic, tactical, and 
operational readiness for the implementation of SLFRS-17. During the year, the SLFRS-17 steering 
committee examined the SLFRS-17 implementation road map in order to meet the new effective 
date of 1 January 2025, reviewed vendor evaluations, assessed the company’s strategic readiness and 
awarded the proof of concept (POC) to a selected vendor.
During CY2022, UA continued its ‘digital first’ business model in line with its mission of positioning itself 
as the foremost digital life insurance company in Sri Lanka. The ‘Clicklife’ self-servicing app, a turnkey 
end-to-end digital insurance solution, continued to perform beyond expectation providing customers 
greater remote accessibility with added service features. During the year, UA integrated a novel calorie 
counter feature, where users could track their caloric intake and create a personalised fitness plan. UA 
also introduced a fully digitised reward system providing a seamless experience to customer.
UA also continued to digitise its processes which led to significant operational efficiencies with 
straight through underwriting at 57% and one-day claim settlements at 91%. An enhanced overall 
customer experience was facilitated through:
	y
digital advisor toolkit (DAT), a digital end-to-end selling platform which was enhanced with 
added features to further simplify the selling process, and;
	y
enhanced performance management features introduced to the virtual agency management 
platform – ‘FAME’, which facilitates better management of sales force performance.
	y
Great Place to Work (GPTW) – recognised as a Best Workplace, ranking among the top 10 in 
the Banking, Financial Services, and Insurance Industry in Sri Lanka. 
	y
Received the ‘Best Digitising Life Insurance Sri Lanka’ award at The Global Business Magazine 
Awards 2022.
	y
Received the following awards from ‘World Economic Magazine’:
•	
‘Best Bancassurance Provider Sri Lanka’ 
•	
‘Most Innovative Bancassurance Rewards Programme in Sri Lanka’ 
	y
‘Satyn Magazine CIMA Women Friendly Workplace Awards 2022’ – recognised as ‘One of 
Sri Lanka’s Most Outstanding Women-Friendly Workplaces’ and category winner of the ‘She 
Thrives Award’. 
AWARDS
Banking 
Nations Trust Bank (NTB) remained resilient 
during the year under review by focusing on a 
return centric strategy which emphasised on 
managing risks and optimising capital. Despite 
the volatilities in the overall banking industry, 
the conscious selective growth strategy of 
the Bank led to continued stability and record 
profitability. 
The country witnessed a steep depreciation 
of the Rupee during the year under review, 
following which, the Government declared 
a pre-emptive measure of suspending 
the servicing of a significant portion of its 
external debt obligations, given the state of 
the foreign currency reserves position, which 
resulted in a downgrade of the sovereign 
credit rating. These measures exacerbated the 
macroeconomic challenges that continued 
from the previous year giving rise to significant 
impacts on the banking industry on account 
of foreign exchange liquidity pressures and 
credit losses. However, the latter end of 
CY2022 and thereafter was characterised by 
improvement in the overall macroeconomy, 
including a moderation of inflation, a gradual 
reversal in interest rates, and higher foreign 
currency inflows on the back of strong policy 
measures.

76 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
FINANCIAL SERVICES
	y
‘Most Valued Credit Card Base and Campaign Promoter’ - Daraz Payment Partner 
Performance Awards 2022.
	y
Received the following awards at Sri Lanka Institute of Marketing (SLIM) DIGIS 2.2 for ‘FriMi’:
•	
Silver award – Best Use of Data.
•	
Merit award – Small Budget Impact. 
	y
‘FriMi’ was ranked 2nd amongst the ‘Most Loved Brands’ in the FINTECH category by LMD 
Brand Finance.
AWARDS
Despite the challenging operating landscape, net interest income (NII) grew by 108% due to the 
timely re-pricing of assets which comprised primarily of short-duration floating loans in a rising 
interest rate environment while the net interest margin widened to 7.0% [CY2021: 3.9%]. However, 
NTB’s proportion of loans and advances declined to 58% as at the year end [CY2021: 65%] given 
the Bank’s measures to build its liquidity buffer and the Bank’s cautious and selective approach to 
lending, refocusing on segments of the economy that are anticipated to have upside potential and 
critical to the economy. NTB also noted an 11% increase in net fee and commission income. 
Lacklustre economic conditions coupled with the cessation of moratoriums on loans offered 
during the Covid-19 pandemic resulted in an increase in Stage 3 (credit impaired) loans and 
impairments across the industry, to which NTB was no exception. However, the Bank’s focus on 
preserving portfolio quality, particularly through data analytics, aided the Bank in curtailing the 
increase in its Stage 3 loans ratio to 2.6% [CY2021: 2.1%], in contrast to the industry which was at 
6.5%. Accordingly, impairments increased by 270% to Rs.13.84 billion. The impact on impairments 
was also exacerbated by the downgrade of the sovereign rating, although the Bank’s exposure to 
International Sovereign Bonds and Sri Lanka Development Bonds is relatively low in comparison 
to the industry, at ~3% of total assets as at 31 December 2022. This further improved to ~2% as at 
31 March 2023. In this regard, it is noted that the Bank had made higher than necessary provisions 
after conducting stress tests to determine tolerance levels. 
Despite the high inflationary pressures, NTB limited its growth in total operating costs to 27% 
given its successful efforts at driving cost efficiencies through internal processes and productivity 
improvements with its ‘digital first’ approach. The cost to income ratio, improved to 30% [CY2021: 
39%] given the wider income base. The Bank continued to maintain a resilient and stable funding 
position with risk and capital management pivotal to managing the year under review. The Bank’s 
capital adequacy ratio (CAR) stood at 16.3% at the end of CY2022. Although no Tier 2 capital was 
raised during the year, given the rising interest rate environment, NTB’s Tier 1 and total capital 
ratios stood at 14.8% and 16.9% respectively at the year end, in line with regulatory requirements 
[CY2021: 15.3% and 18.0%, respectively]. 
The Group currently holds 29.48% of voting shares in NTB. The Director of Bank Supervision of the 
CBSL, has informed that in terms of a decision of the Monetary Board of the CBSL, the Group has 
been granted further time till 31 December 2022 to reduce its voting shareholding in NTB to 20%. 
Restriction on voting rights at 10% is applicable on the Group, until the shareholding is reduced 
to 15%. JKH has requested for an extension of the deadline from the CBSL and is awaiting a formal 
response from the CBSL.
The Bank’s digitally enabled customers increased by 13% whilst digital transactions accounted for 
92% of total transactions [CY2021: 87%]. The Bank continued to provide its customers with value 
added services and upgrades to its digital banking services through the ‘Nations Direct’ mobile 
banking app and online banking services. NTB also launched the ‘Nations Direct’ self onboarding 
platform to accommodate end-to-end, unassisted customer onboarding across multiple platforms 
as part of its vision to digitise the entire customer life cycle management process. ‘FriMi’, the Bank’s 
fully fledged digital banking experience, continued to strengthen its market leadership position 
through innovative payment solutions and deepening relationships across the value chain.
Mr. Gihan Cooray retired as a Director and Chairman of the Board, having served the stipulated 
maximum nine-year tenure as a director of the bank in compliance with Direction No. 3(2)(ii) (A) of 
the Rules of Corporate Governance for Licensed Commercial Banks issued by the CBSL. Ms. Sherin 
Cader took over as the Chairperson of the Board of Directors, with effect from 1 May 2023.
Macroeconomic Update - 
Stock Broking
	y
The All Share Price Index (ASPI) of 
the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) 
recorded a 31% decline in CY2022 
[CY2021: 81% gain], whilst the S&P SL 
20 index also noted a 38% decline in 
CY2022 [CY2021: 61% gain].  
	y
Daily average turnover of equity 
stood at Rs.2.97 billion in CY2022, 
a 39% decline against the previous 
year [CY2021: Rs.4.88 billion], 
primarily driven by macroeconomic 
uncertainty, volatility of earnings 
and higher yields on alternative 
investment opportunities.
Stock Broking 
JKSB, the stock broking arm of the Group, 
experienced a challenging year of operations 
on account of the lacklustre performance of 
the CSE during the year. Market performance, 
especially foreign participation, was adversely 
affected by macroeconomic volatility, political 
uncertainty and social unrest. Subdued 
investor and consumer confidence, reduced 
disposable income coupled with a plethora 
of challenges faced by entities, including the 
increase in corporate and value added taxes, 
adversely impacted stock market performance. 
Impacts were further amplified given the 
contractionary monetary policy regimes in 
most parts of the world, including the Fed, 
Bank of England and the European Central 
Bank.
The business continued to focus on updating 
its processes and systems to improve 
alignment with client needs during the 
year. Several initiatives were introduced in 
this regard to enhance efficiency and cost 
management in order to strengthen front and 
back-office operations. In furtherance of better 
addressing client requirements, the business 
continued to conduct client engagement 
sessions and investor fora via online platforms. 
JKSB also enhanced the ‘self-service’ features 
on its customer portal. 

77
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
OTHER, INCLUDING INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND PLANTATION SERVICES
Industry Group Structure 
Contribution to the John Keells Group
IT Services
	y
John Keells IT (JKIT) - a boutique Information Technology (IT) 
consultancy and professional service provider with a vision to 
simplify and digitally transform businesses to be relevant in the 
data-driven experience economy.
	y
Key value stacks:
•	
JKIT Strategy – experiencing a data-driven economy through 
design thinking.
•	
JKIT Core – orchestrating enterprise application portfolios.
•	
JKIT Cloud – architecting cloud transformation.
•	
JKIT Platform – enabling a ‘Smart’ future.
•	
JKIT Ecosystem – driving the Application Programming 
Interface (API) economy.
IT-Enabled Services
	y
Infomate - a business process management (BPM) service 
provider with the mandate of driving greater efficiencies for  
their clientele.
	y
Key focus areas:
•	
Finance and accounting.
•	
Payroll management.
•	
Data digitisation.
	y
John Keells PLC (JK PLC) – a leading tea and rubber broker.
	y
Tea Smallholder Factories PLC (TSF):
•	
Operates six of the seven factories owned. One factory is 
leased externally.
•	
Leading manufacturer of low grown orthodox and ‘crush, tear, 
curl’ (CTC) teas in the country.
	y
John Keells Warehousing (JKW) – operates a state-of-the-art 
warehouse for pre-auction produce.
	y
JKH (Holding Company) and other businesses  
(Centre functions/divisions).
2%
19%
14%
2%
Revenue
EBIT
Capital Employed
Carbon Footprint
Information Technology 
Plantation Services
Other
Inputs (Rs.million)
2022/23
2021/22
%
2020/21
Total assets
 95,472 
 134,622 
 (29)
 81,241 
Total equity
 (2,988)
 54,578 
 (105)
 30,367 
Total debt1
 90,352 
 72,510 
 25 
 47,562 
Capital employed2
 87,364 
 127,088 
 (31)
 77,930 
Employees3 (No.)
 1,294 
 1,227 
 5 
 1,196 
Outputs (Rs.million)
2022/23
2021/22
%
2020/21
Revenue4
 6,874 
 4,041 
 70 
 3,949 
EBIT
 6,435 
 5,291 
 22 
 2,907 
PBT
 7,111 
 21,090 
 (66)
 3,291 
PAT
 3,876 
 16,625 
 (77)
 2,356 
EBIT per employee
 5 
 4 
 15 
 2 
Carbon footprint (MT)
 1,990 
 2,202 
 (10)
 2,543 
1. Excludes lease liabilities; includes the liability arising from the issue of convertible 
debentures.
2.	For equity accounted investees, capital employed is representative of the Group’s 
equity investment in these companies. This is inclusive of lease liabilities.
3. As per the sustainability reporting boundary.
4. Revenue is inclusive of the Group’s share of equity accounted investees.

78 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
Macroeconomic Update - Information Technology
	y
Businesses continued to invest in technology to digitise their value chain as well as to 
build value ecosystems with the aim of capitalising on the shift to convenience and 
consumerism.
	y
Organisations across the globe also continued to invest in emerging technologies that 
offer new growth opportunities, such as Cognitive Systems/Artificial Intelligence (AI), Big 
Data, Robotic Process Automation (RPA), Internet of Things (IoT), Block Chain, 3D Printing, 
Cloud Computing, Mobility, Mixed Reality, Metaverse, amongst others.
	y
Businesses continued to seek credible, long-term partners to drive their digital 
transformation agenda across their value chains/ecosystems with end-to-end portfolio 
capability and solution stacks.
	y
The key growth areas were centred around core modernisation, cloud enablement, 
industry solution stacks, zero-trust, collaboration, mobility, personalisation, intelligent 
automation, advanced analytics, digital identity among others. Enhanced and deep 
capability in being able to integrate such aspects was a key differentiator and critical 
success factor.
	y
The global business process management (BPM) industry market size was valued at USD 
14.46 billion in CY2022. The global spend on IT services is expected to reach USD 1.36 
trillion by CY2025.
	y
IT/BPM industry in Sri Lanka has set itself a target of reaching the USD 3 billion export 
revenue mark by CY2024 and contributing USD 15 billion to the digital economy by 
CY2030.
	y
With the increase in global demand for IT/BPM services, Sri Lanka continued to strengthen 
its position as an information and communication technology (ICT) destination of choice. 
ICT services generated the 2nd highest export revenues for the country in CY2022.
Key Policy and Regulatory Highlights
	y
Companies providing information technology service were previously exempt from 
income tax. However, effective 1 April 2023, companies will be charged income tax at the 
standard corporate tax rate of 30%.
External Environment and Operational Review
Information Technology
During the year under review, John Keells IT (JKIT) continued to consolidate and accelerate its 
expansions into new regional markets by strengthening and leveraging on its global partnerships 
with Microsoft and SAP as well as strategic alliances. JKIT further consolidated its position as the 
market leader in Sri Lanka and United Arab Emirates through aggressive growth strategies. The 
business also pursued market expansion in South East Asia through identified strategic alliances, 
which are currently underway. 
The business’s new operating structure focused on the Asia Pacific (APAC) and Europe, the Middle 
East and Africa (EMEA) regions. JKIT’s portfolio strategy which aligns solutions under a broader 
umbrella continued to be well received, with the solutions value stacks, ‘JKIT-Strategy’, ‘JKIT-Core’, 
‘JKIT-Cloud’, ‘JKIT-Platforms’, and ‘JKIT-Ecosystems’ yielding positive results. During the year, the 
business also focused on building its branding and positioning by initiating a co-branded award 
ceremony in Sri Lanka together with SAP titled ‘Dare to Dream Awards 2023’, to recognise, motivate 
and nurture digital leadership. 
JKIT continued to focus on delivering 
innovative solutions for clients by providing 
holistic and transformative solutions and 
services across the aforementioned five 
value stacks and packaging the same to 
create ‘Smart Industry Solutions’. Making the 
services available on both Microsoft and 
SAP marketplaces have augured well, giving 
the business added recognition in its key 
industries.
The Group’s BPM operations in Sri Lanka, 
Infomate, recorded an encouraging 
performance during the year and was 
recognised within the top six BPO companies 
in Sri Lanka. The business was successful in 
expanding its portfolio of clients, especially 
across Australia, the Nordic region and the 
Middle East. The business also expanded 
its portfolio of services to include human 
resource outsourcing, lead generation and 
documentation services during the year under 
review.
John Keells IT:
	y
Runner up – ‘Delivery excellence 
Award 2023’ .
	y
‘Microsoft specialisation awards’ 
in ‘Infrastructure’, ‘Digital & App 
Innovation’ and ‘Data & AI’ categories.
	y
‘SAP on Azure’ partner of the year.
	y
‘Azure Migration’ partner of the year.
	y
‘Cloud solutions & Innovation’ partner 
of the year.
	y
‘Partner of the Year – Sri Lanka 2022’, at 
the SAP India Partner Success Summit.
AWARDS
JKIT continued to consolidate 
and accelerate its expansions 
into new regional markets by 
strengthening and leveraging 
on its global partnerships with 
Microsoft and SAP as well as 
strategic alliances.
OTHER, INCLUDING INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY 
AND PLANTATION SERVICES

79
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
During the year under review, 
the business’s emphasis on 
quality of the leaf standards 
allowed it to demand a price 
premium significantly above 
the national average.
Macroeconomic Update - Plantation Services 
	y
Global tea production declined by 1% in CY2022 in comparison to the 3% growth recorded 
in CY2021, primarily due to lower output levels in markets such as Sri Lanka, Africa, 
Bangladesh, Indonesia and India. 
	y
Sri Lanka recorded a 16% decline in tea production to 251,499 MT during CY2022 [CY2021: 
299,338 MT], where production was impacted by the lagged effect of fertiliser shortages 
which materialised as a result of the ban imposed by the Government on the importation 
of agrochemicals such as urea based fertilisers and weedicides in April 2021. The ban 
was lifted in November 2021. The decrease in production was driven by contractions 
across high, medium and low grown teas, which recorded declines of 14%, 21% and 15%, 
respectively.
	y
Sri Lanka tea exports for CY2022 stood at 250.2 million kg in comparison to 286.0 million kg 
recorded in CY2021. Iraq was the largest importer of Sri Lankan tea in CY2022, recording 
a marginal growth of 2% from CY2021, followed by Russia, United Arab Emirates (UAE), 
Turkey, Iran and Azerbaijan. The ongoing Russia-Ukraine conflict and the recent natural 
disaster in Turkey impacted Sri Lankan tea exports. 
	y
The decline in the supply of Ceylon tea amidst global supply-demand dynamics 
contributed to a 9% increase in tea prices in USD terms to USD 5.03 per kg in CY2022 
[CY2021: USD 4.63 per kg]. In Rupee terms, the average tea prices at the Colombo 
Tea Auction increased by Rs.618.80 per kg to an average price of Rs.1,234.24 in 
CY2022 [CY2021: Rs.615.44] driven by the depreciation of the Rupee in addition to the 
aforementioned factors. However, with the appreciation of the Rupee in March 2023, 
average tea prices noted a decrease. 
	y
The Government undertook many measures aimed at enhancing productivity, 
value addition and competitiveness of the industry. Some initiatives in this regard 
included special concessionary loan schemes to tea factories and subsidies for factory 
modernisation and improvements in the productivity of tea lands. 
	y
The Colombo Tea Traders’ Association (CTTA) continued to enhance its online auction 
platform, including enabling surveillances to curtail mismanagement amongst buyers, 
brokers and sellers. 
Key Policy and Regulatory Highlights
	y
The income tax rate on agro-processing businesses increased to 30% from 14% during the 
year under review.
Plantation Services
The lagged effects of the fertiliser ban 
imposed by the Government on imported 
agrochemicals in 2021/22 coupled with the 
challenging macroeconomic environment, 
particularly the rise in production costs due 
to increased fertiliser costs and related raw 
materials and the upward adjustments in 
utility costs impacted the overall tea industry, 
including the tea smallholders. Against this 
backdrop, TSF recorded a 17% decrease in 
volumes to 2,463 MT in 2022/23 [2021/22: 
2,966 MT]. During the year under review, 
the business’s emphasis on quality of the 
leaf standards allowed it to demand a price 
premium significantly above the national 
average. Further, TSF continued to automate 
certain internal processes and upgrade 
its machinery which led to an increase in 
productivity and quality.
The overall decline in volumes at the Colombo 
Tea Auction was mirrored in the performance 
of JK PLC given the nature of its operations. 
The business recorded a decline in volumes, 
particularly in the high grown and medium 
grown elevations, as production levels 
were unable to reach its optimal capacity. 
Resultantly, although JK PLC was successful 
in gaining market share in the high grown 
elevation, overall market share declined 
marginally to ~13% during the year under 
review [2021/22: ~14% market share]. 
With the decline in the overall tea industry 
production levels, the Warehousing business 
witnessed lower levels of utilisation compared 
to the previous year.
‘Dare to Dream Awards 2023’ orgainsed by SAP and JKIT.

80 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
OTHER, INCLUDING INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY 
AND PLANTATION SERVICES
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
Other
In addition to the Information Technology and Plantation Services sectors, the industry group 
also entails the performance of the Holding Company and its various divisions. In addition to 
the Centre functions, the Holding Company operations also include:
	y
OCTAVE, the Group’s Data and Advanced Analytics Centre of Excellence 
	y
John Keells Research, the research and development arm of the Group
	y
John Keells X, a corporate start-up accelerator
	y
‘Plasticcycle’, the Group’s social entrepreneurship initiative
Detailed discussion of each of the above functions is found in the Intellectual Capital Review and Natural 
Capital Review sections - Pages 132 & 103 respectively. 
Holding Company 
The year under review was characterised by numerous macroeconomic and socio-political 
pressures emanating from a precarious external financing position, including a shortage in 
foreign exchange, a high interest rate regime, a marked depreciation of the Rupee and an 
inflationary environment. Due to these unprecedented circumstances, the Holding Company 
continued to focus on various measures to ensure an agile operating model, with emphasis 
on liquidity and cash management. The financial strength of the Holding Company, together 
with agility in planning ahead aided the Company in navigating and circumventing the 
macroeconomic challenges encountered during most parts of the year.
Refer Financial and Manufactured Capital Review for a detailed discussion - Page 81.
As announced to the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE), the Company concluded the issuance of 
convertible debentures amounting to Rs.27.06 billion on 12 August 2022, by way of a private 
placement of LKR denominated securities to HWIC Asia Fund (HWIC), a subsidiary of Fairfax 
Financial Holdings Limited, Canada. Accordingly, 208,125,000 Sri Lankan Rupee denominated 
unrated, unlisted, unsecured convertible debentures were issued to HWIC at an issue price of 
Rs.130 per debenture. The debentures have a maturity period of three years and will accrue 
interest at a rate of 3% per annum. The date of maturity of the debentures is 12 August 2025 
with HWIC having the option to convert each debenture to one new ordinary share of the 
Company during the conversion period from 12 February 2024 to 12 August 2025.
The proceeds from this transaction are earmarked to support the Group’s investment pipeline 
and match its foreign currency linked project costs whilst reducing the need to fund some of its 
requirements through the local banking sector, given the stresses on capital and interest rates 
at the time of raising such funds.
Refer Strategy, Resource Allocation and Portfolio Management section for a discussion on the key portfolio 
actions during the year - Page 157. 
The Company concluded the issuance of convertible 
debentures amounting to Rs.27.06 billion on 12 August 2022, 
by way of a private placement of LKR denominated securities 
to HWIC Asia Fund (HWIC), a subsidiary of Fairfax Financial 
Holdings Limited, Canada.

81
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
FINANCIAL AND MANUFACTURED CAPITAL REVIEW
Revenue
Group revenue recorded a 27% increase to Rs.276.64 billion during 
the year under review [2021/22: Rs.218.07 billion]. Apart from business 
specific factors, revenue increases were supported, in general, by 
selling price increases in certain businesses while businesses with 
foreign currency denominated revenue streams benefited from the 
translation of such revenue streams into Rupees on account of the steep 
depreciation of the Rupee. Apart from these macroeconomic factors, the 
increase in revenue primarily stemmed from:
	y
The Transportation industry group, mainly due to the Bunkering 
business which is attributable to an increase in volumes and oil prices.
The performance of Group businesses remained resilient during the 
year under review, despite the multitude of challenges in the operating 
environment, including various constraints stemming from the external 
financing position, illiquid foreign exchange markets, notable increase in 
interest rates and spiralling costs. Notwithstanding the various socio-
economic and socio-political pressures that were prevalent in the first 
half of the year under review, the businesses recorded an encouraging 
performance, albeit the lower base given pandemic induced impacts in 
the comparative period. Whilst the operating environment normalised 
in the second half of the year, performance was impacted on the back 
of rising inflation, supply chain disruptions, the contractionary fiscal and 
monetary policy measures of policymakers, and the resultant decline in 
consumer purchasing power. 
The following discussion provides a holistic view on the Group’s key 
drivers and performance during the year under review. Where relevant, 
insight has been provided on the Group’s underlying performance 
excluding one-off impacts through a discussion of a recurring 
performance analysis, as morefully detailed in the ensuing section.
Focus Areas
	y
The Leisure industry group, driven by improved performance across 
the portfolio of hotels and the translation impact, particularly in the 
Maldivian Resorts segment.
	y
The Supermarket business, on account of a double-digit growth in 
same store sales.
The growth in revenue is despite the absence of any material revenue 
recognition in the Property industry group during the year under review. 
The previous year included the revenue recognition from the handover 
of units in the residential towers and commercial office spaces sold at 
the ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’, compared with no corresponding 
revenue recognition in the current year. Revenue excluding Property 
stood at Rs.274.51 billion, a 51% increase against the previous year 
[2021/22: Rs.182.34 billion].
Revenue emanating from domestic sources was Rs.183.95 billion 
[2021/22: Rs.171.96 billion].
Group revenue, inclusive of equity accounted investees, increased by 
28% to Rs.311.48 billion [2021/22: Rs.244.29 billion]. Revenue from equity 
accounted investees at Rs.34.84 billion, was an increase of 33% against the 
Rs.26.22 billion recorded in 2021/22. The increase primarily stemmed from 
South Asia Gateway Terminals (SAGT), Nations Trust Bank and DHL Keells. 
The revenue breakdown across industry groups inclusive of share of 
associate revenue, are as follows:
Revenue including Equity 
Accounted Investees (Rs.million)
2022/23
2021/22
%
Transportation
94,281 
 43,816 
115
Consumer Foods
31,269 
 21,008 
49
Retail
106,849 
 90,842 
18
Leisure
39,859 
 18,962 
110
Property
4,577 
 41,476 
(89)
Financial Services
27,770 
 24,149 
15
Other, including Information 
Technology and Plantation Services
6,874 
 4,041 
70
Group
311,478 
 244,294 
28
For a detailed analysis of performance, refer the Industry Group-wise Financial 
Analysis of this Review. 
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
Composition of Revenue incl. Equity Accounted Investees 
Composition of Revenue incl. Equity Accounted Investees 
(%)
(%)
Transportation 
Leisure
Retail
Consumer
Foods
Property
Financial
Services
Other, incl.
Information
Technology
& Plantation Services 
FY22
FY23
17.9
30.3
8.6
10.0
37.2
34.3
7.8
12.8
17.0
1.5
9.9
8.9
1.7
2.2
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Financial 
Performance
Financial 
Position
Cash and Liquidity 
Management
Leverage and 
Capital Structure
Industry Group-wise 
Financial Analysis
Page 81
Page 88
Page 92
Page 89
Page 93
LKR

82 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
FINANCIAL AND MANUFACTURED CAPITAL REVIEW
Earnings Before Interest Expense, Tax, Depreciation and 
Amortisation
Group Earnings Before Interest Expense, Tax, Depreciation and 
Amortisation (EBITDA) increased by 52% to Rs.44.56 billion during the 
year under review [2021/22: Rs.29.26 billion] mainly on account of the 
Transportation, Leisure, Financial Services and Retail industry groups. 
Whilst EBITDA growth was stronger in the first half of the year under 
review, the second half noted a slow down in the pace of growth.  
Definition: Note that EBITDA includes interest income and the share of 
results of equity accounted investees which is based on the share of 
profit after tax but excludes all impacts from foreign currency exchange 
gains and losses (other than for equity accounted investees), to 
demonstrate the underlying cash operational performance of businesses.
Group EBITDA Reconciliation 
(Rs.million)
2022/23
2021/22
%
Group revenue excluding equity 
accounted investees
276,640
218,075
27
(-) Cost of sales
(227,190)
(180,430)
26
(+) Other operating income
3,261
2,615
25
(-) Selling and distribution expenses
(8,266)
(5,733)
44
(-) Administration expenses
(21,928)
(14,763)
49
(-) Other operating expenses
(9,826)
(7,608)
29
(+) Finance income
26,900
30,806
(13)
(-) Increase in insurance contract 
liabilities
(7,650)
(6,416)
19
(+/-) Change in fair value of 
investment property
879
(4,085)
122
(+) Share of results of equity 
accounted investees
7,574
1,898
299
(+) Depreciation and amortisation
11,284
8,560
32
(-) Exchange gain
(6,630)
(12,889)
(49)
45,046
30,030
50
(-) Adjustments relating to 
policyholders at UA*
(488)
(768)
(37)
Group EBITDA
44,558
29,262
52
* Adjustments to arrive at the EBITDA solely attributable to the shareholders of the Group.
(5)
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
Composition of EBITDA
Composition of EBITDA
(%)
(%)
Transportation 
Leisure
Retail
Consumer
Foods
Property
Financial
Services
Other, incl.
Information
Technology
& Plantation Services 
FY22
FY23
2.9
23.9
12.0
7.4
25.8
19.8
13.3
19.2
10.1
(0.5)
17.2
15.3
18.8
14.9
In terms of the composition of EBITDA, Transportation was the primary 
contributor with a 24% contribution, followed by Retail and Leisure with 
contributions of 20% and 19%, respectively.
As Group EBITDA includes the one-off impacts, the ensuing section 
discusses EBITDA on a recurring basis, excluding the one-off impacts. 
Recurring Adjustments
To depict the underlying performance of the Group during the 
year, the recurring performance analysis entails the following 
adjustments: 
Routine adjustments:
	y
Note 1 - Removal of impacts of fair value gains on investment 
property (IP): 
This excludes IP gains at the Property industry group as the 
Group’s land banking strategy is aimed at monetising such 
assets in the medium-term; IP gains are reflective of the core 
operations of the Property industry group. IP gains pertaining 
to industry groups other than Property have been adjusted at 
a Group level. Whilst this is the usual norm, there are certain 
exceptions - refer Note 3 below. 
On this basis, net fair value gains pertaining to all industry 
groups, other than Property, stood at Rs.353 million [2021/22: 
Rs.203 million].
One-offs/adjustments specific for 2022/23:
	y
Note 2 - The following one-off impacts from performance 
related initiatives were excluded:
i.	 2022/23 includes a reversal in the long-term cash-based 
incentive provisions, the plan of which was articulated in the 
2018/19 Annual Report, due to the unprecedented nature of 
challenges faced by the country and the businesses across 
four years of disruption, and the resultant performance 
impact to businesses.
ii.	 The Group identified a road map of well-defined advanced 
analytics use cases, to be rolled out across select Group 
businesses from the inception of the programme in 2018/19. 
While the programme has been extremely successful, as 
elaborated elsewhere in the Report, the roll-out of certain 
use cases were delayed from what was originally planned 
due to numerous disruptions such as the pandemic and the 
financial crisis in the country. Accordingly, the costs of some 
of these use cases, which were expected to be passed down 
to the related businesses, were written off, as a prudential 
measure.  
	y
Note 3 - Further to the impairment loss recognised last year at 
Saffron Aviation (Private) Limited (SAL), the operating company of 
‘Cinnamon Air’, the Group revisited its overall exposure to SAL given 
the continued multiple setbacks faced by the tourism industry in 
the recent years which impacted the operating performance of the 
business. Accordingly, a provision for impairment of the investment 
in preference shares of SAL by Whittall Boustead Travel Limited was 
recorded during the year under review.
Fair Value Gains/Losses on Investment Property
Fair value impacts on investment property (IP) were recorded at a gain of 
Rs.879 million in 2022/23 [2021/22: loss of Rs.4.08 billion], primarily owing 
to gains at Property [excluding Waterfront Properties (Private) Limited 
(WPL)], Leisure, WPL, and Other, including Information Technology and 
Plantation Services industry groups recording IP gains of Rs.388 million, 
Rs.201 million, Rs.137 million, and Rs.131 million, respectively.

83
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
	y
Note 4 - Given the significant revision of corporate income tax rates 
from 1 October 2022 by virtue of the Inland Revenue (Amendment) 
Act No. 45 of 2022, the Group revisited the cumulative deferred 
tax provisions in line with the new tax rates across its businesses. 
Accordingly, since the deferred tax for 2022/23 was computed based 
on the amended rates, the cumulative income tax differentials were 
adjusted to reflect the tax provision on a recurring basis. 
It is pertinent to note that the share of results of equity accounted 
investees in the Financial Statements are shown net of all related 
taxes. Thus, in calculating recurring EBITDA, recurring EBIT and 
recurring PBT, the recurring performance analysis adjusts the one 
off impact on the deferred tax provisions of equity accounted 
investees. This amounts to Rs.1.72 billion.
One-offs/adjustments specific for 2021/22:
	y
Note 5 - Given the steep depreciation of the LKR/USD exchange 
rate witnessed towards the latter end of 2021/22, where the LKR 
recorded a decline of 52% during 2021/22 to Rs.305.00 as at 31 
March 2022, the impacts of all foreign exchange gains/losses have 
been eliminated in arriving at the recurring performance.
The net foreign exchange gain was primarily as a result of a foreign 
exchange gain on the Holding Company’s net USD denominated 
cash holdings. The foreign currency cash holdings include the 
funds earmarked for the equity infusions of the ‘Cinnamon Life 
Integrated Resort’ project and the funds raised for the Group’s 
investment pipeline via the debt drawdown of the long-term loan 
facility from the International Finance Corporation (IFC) and the 
private placement of ordinary shares to the Asian Development 
Bank (ADB).
The related impacts of exchange gains and losses in the current 
year have also been adjusted for comparative purposes. 
	y
Note 6 - The one-off impacts at the following Transportation 
companies were excluded: SAGT, Lanka Marine Services (LMS) 
and SAL. 
i.	 Given the impending end of the concession on the 30-year 
build, operate and transfer (BOT) agreement of SAGT in CY2029, 
an impairment of goodwill arising from the difference of the 
original investment and carrying value of the investment was 
recognised in 2021/22.
ii.	 A general provision for taxes was made at LMS, as a measure of 
prudence, in line with the higher operational activity and the 
current tax positions which are being appealed.
iii.	 Given the multiple setbacks faced in the recent years from the 
Easter Sunday attacks in CY2019, the subsequent pandemic 
driven impacts on tourism, and operating conditions thereafter, 
an impairment loss was recognised at SAL. 
	y
Note 7 – Given market conditions and uncertainty, the steep 
depreciation of the Rupee and the outlook on USD linked rental 
for commercial space, as a prudential measure, WPL re-assessed 
the fair value of the office spaces at the ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated 
Resort’, and, accordingly, recognised an impairment loss of Rs.4.90 
billion on its IP. In keeping with the functional reporting currency 
of WPL, the IP value of the property is recognised in US Dollars. 
The prudential provisioning was on the basis of having flexibility 
in structuring commercial arrangements in line with market 
conditions. This impairment is included under the Property industry 
group.
	y
Note 8 - The significant foreign currency exchange gain at the 
Holding Company in 2021/22, as detailed under Note 5 above, 
will be taxed upon realisation as per the current tax regulations. 
Accordingly, a deferred tax provision amounting to Rs.3.21 billion 
was recognised in 2021/22.
Adjustments (as already captured in reported results) 
(Rs.billion)
Group
Holding Company
2022/23
2021/22
2022/23
2021/22
Routine adjustments:
Impacts of fair value gains/losses on investment property (IP),  
excluding Property
Note 1
0.35
0.20
N/A
N/A
Adjustments stemming from 2022/23:
One-off impacts from performance related initiatives
Note 2
(0.06)
N/A
(0.53)
N/A
Provision for impairment of WBTL’s shares in SAF
Note 3
(0.42)
N/A
N/A
N/A
Deferred tax impact from a change in tax rates
Note 4
(1.72)
N/A
N/A
N/A
Adjustments stemming from 2021/22:
Net exchange gains
Note 5
6.63
12.89
9.46
18.63
One-off impacts in Transportation companies 
Note 6
N/A
(5.30)
N/A
(0.51)
Fair value loss on IP at WPL
Note 7
N/A
(4.90)
N/A
N/A
One-off deferred tax charge at JKH
Note 8
N/A
(3.21)
N/A
(3.21)

84 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
FINANCIAL AND MANUFACTURED CAPITAL REVIEW
Industry Group-wise Quarterly Performance
The following provides an insight to the performance of the 
industry groups across the quarters. 
	y
Although there were no pandemic related disruptions in 
Q1, there were numerous challenges and macroeconomic 
pressures emanating from a precarious external financing 
position, including a severe fuel shortage, scarcity of essential 
commodities, including food and medicines, and disruptions to 
power. Despite this, the Group reported a strong performance, 
which was a significant improvement over the comparative 
period of last year, with all businesses witnessing a sustained 
recovery momentum. The Group’s Leisure businesses, in 
particular, continued to record a significant turnaround in 
performance primarily due to the Maldivian Resorts. It should 
be noted that the performance of the comparative quarter 
was somewhat distorted due to the business disruptions on 
account of the imposition of island-wide travel restrictions.  
	y
Despite the challenging operating environment in Q2, the Group 
reported a strong performance with all businesses recording 
an increase in profitability, except for the Property industry 
group. The day-to-day consumer and business activity gradually 
reverted to levels of normalcy from late July 2022 onwards, 
supported by political and social stability and less disruptions 
on account of the macroeconomic challenges. It is noted that 
the comparative quarter continued to be impacted by business 
disruptions stemming from the Covid-19 pandemic. 
	y
Q3 witnessed the continuation of normal day-to-day consumer 
and business activity, supported by sustained political 
and social stability and less disruptions on account of the 
macroeconomic challenges. Whilst businesses witnessed a 
strong performance in contrast to the comparative quarter, 
cost pressures continued to impact businesses. The Consumer 
Foods industry group in particular noted a decline in 
profitability due to a contraction in volumes on account of 
price increases undertaken in several stock keeping units (SKUs) 
to address rising costs, mitigate margin pressure, and declining 
disposable incomes.
Recurring EBITDA
The recurring performance analysis entails the removal of one-off 
impacts in order to demonstrate the performance of the core operations 
of the businesses.
The recurring EBITDA for the year under review recorded an increase 
of 17% to Rs.45.74 billion, compared to Rs.39.26 billion recorded in the 
previous year. As evident from the ensuing graph, although revenue 
recorded a significant increase during the year under review, this 
was offset by various cost pressures stemming from the challenging 
operating environment, some costs of which were transitory. 
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
Recurring EBITDA
Recurring EBITDA
(Rs.billion)
(Rs.billion)
Recurring EBITDA
in FY22
Revenue
Cost of sales
Selling and
distribution expenses
Administration
expenses
Other expenses
and adjustments
Finance income
Insurance contract
liabilities
Share of results
of associates
Depreciation and
amortisation
Recurring EBITDA
in FY23
Increase
Decrease
Total
39.26
59.21
(46.76)
(2.53)
(8.24)
(27.51)
24.18
(1.32)
6.73
2.72
45.74
The recurring EBITDA breakdown for each of the industry groups are 
given below.
Recurring EBITDA (Rs.million)
2022/23
2021/22
%
Transportation
 11,963 
6,141
95
Consumer Foods
 3,184 
3,485
(9)
Retail
 8,779 
7,549
16
Leisure
 8,604 
3,785
127
Property
 (265)
7,867
(103)
Financial Services
 6,451 
5,024
28
Other, including Information 
Technology and Plantation Services
 7,024 
5,408
30
Group
 45,740 
39,259
17
The recurring EBITDA of the Property industry group was affected on 
account of two factors; firstly, the financial year 2021/22 included the 
recognition of sales from the ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’ whereas 
there was no revenue recognition in the current year; and secondly, the 
impact of one-off cost escalations on the construction costs at ‘TRI-ZEN’ due 
to the steep depreciation of the Rupee and the rise in global commodity 
prices and freight costs. While the cost escalation impact is allocated to 
the profit recognition on the project, there was an adjustment in the 
current year to reflect the cost impact on the sales already recognised in 
the previous financial years. This affected the current year’s profitability 
materially. Although this impact is one-off, this was not adjusted when 
arriving at the recurring EBITDA in the current year, which can be considered 
understated on account of this adjustment. Since this adjustment has been 
fully absorbed in the current financial year, going forward, the revenue 
recognition of ‘TRI-ZEN’ will result in positive profit recognition over the 
ensuing quarters up to and including project completion. 
For a detailed industry-group wise analysis, refer the Industry Group-wise 
Financial Analysis of this Review. 
Recurring EBITDA Margins (%)
2022/23
2021/22
Transportation
12.7
14.0
Consumer Foods
10.2
16.6
Retail
8.2
8.3
Leisure
21.6
20.0
Property
(5.8)
19.0
Financial Services
23.2
20.8
Other, including Information Technology and 
Plantation Services
102.2
133.8
Group
14.7
16.1

85
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
Recurring EBITDA
Rs.million
YoY %
2022/23
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Transportation
 4,551 
 3,035 
 2,840 
 1,537 
345
153
103
(39)
Consumer Foods
 1,233 
 1,009 
 402 
 540 
288
68
(60)
(65)
Retail
 2,319 
 1,963 
 2,320 
 2,176 
48
48
2
(9)
Leisure
 1,869 
 1,005 
 1,898 
 3,831 
(388)
(2,278)
54
18
Property
 (140)
 (279)
 (312)
 466 
(126)
(122)
(144)
(91)
Financial Services
 877 
 1,104 
2,571
 1,899 
14
12
22
64
Other, including Information Technology and 
Plantation Services 
 2,623 
 1,457 
 1,746 
 1,198 
119
35
117
(49)
Group
13,333 
 9,294 
11,465
 11,647 
180
45
20
(37)
Group Revenue
Rs.million
YoY %
2022/23
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Transportation
23,969
20,233
15,335
14,108
343
161
102
27
Consumer Foods
7,657
8,457
7,298
7,856
107
85
34
8
Retail
25,624
25,835
28,040
27,349
27
24
8
15
Leisure
8,623
8,030
10,631
12,394
346
160
90
50
Property
590
695
402
436
(84)
(91)
(88)
(98)
Financial Services
3,356
3,970
4,873
4,003
11
2
1
2
Other, including Information Technology and 
Plantation Services 
1,695
1,845
1,659
1,674
71
84
88
44
Group
71,516
69,065
68,239
67,820
84
40
27
(11)
	y
The overall macroeconomic stability of the country improved during the fourth quarter aiding tourism and the Group’s Sri Lankan Leisure 
businesses. However, consumer disposable income contracted further with the increase in personal income taxes implemented from 1 
January 2023, which impacted the Group’s consumer focused businesses, in particular.  
Depreciation and Amortisation 
The depreciation and amortisation expense for the year stood at Rs.11.28 
billion, an increase of 32% against the depreciation for 2021/22 at Rs.8.56 
billion. It is noted that the depreciation and amortisation expense also 
includes the amortisation of lease liabilities as per SLFRS 16 - Leases.
The increase in the depreciation and amortisation expense primarily 
stems from: 
	y
the Maldivian Resorts segment, mainly on account of the translation 
impact stemming from the amortisation of leases across the 
Maldivian Resorts given its USD denomination;
	y
the Supermarket business, driven by an increase in assets on account 
of the roll-out of four new outlets and the acquisition of leasehold 
land, conversion of three outlets to the extended store format, 
and capitalisation costs pertaining to the advanced data analytics 
transformation programme. A notable increase in the depreciation 
of LogiPark International (Private) Limited also contributed to this 
increase.
Finance Income
Group finance income stood at Rs.26.90 billion during the year under 
review, a decrease of 13% [2021/22: Rs.30.81 billion], the composition of 
which is given in the table below. 
Finance Income (Rs.million)
2022/23
2021/22
Interest income from life insurance policy 
holder funds at UA
8,474 
 5,333 
Interest income of Group excluding UA
8,385 
 6,421 
Other finance income
10,041   
 19,052 
Total
26,900
 30,806
	y
Interest income associated with UA of Rs.8.47 billion [2021/22: Rs.5.33 
billion], net of related costs, is classified under operating segment 
results on the basis that the interest income from life insurance funds 
is considered operational income.
	y
The interest income of the Group, excluding UA, increased to Rs.8.39 
billion [2021/22: Rs.6.42 billion], primarily stemming from the Holding 
Company. The increase in interest income was driven by higher 
interest rates as well as the translation impact on the foreign currency 
denominated interest income, which was partially offset by a decline in 
Refer the Industry Group-wise Financial Analysis and the Operational Review for a detailed 
discussion of quarterly performance.

86 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
cash and cash equivalents at the Holding Company on account of the 
planned utilisation for equity infusions in investments. The repayment 
of the USD 100 million six-month bridging loan facility in June 2022 
at WPL, the project company of the ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’, 
obtained as part of the refinancing of the USD 395 million syndicate 
term loan facility, and the conversions of USD cash holdings in line 
with the Group’s funding strategy also contributed to the reduction 
in cash holdings. It should be noted that the USD cash balances are 
held as part of a conscious strategy of maintaining a balance sheet 
hedge against the long-term USD borrowings of the Group, where 
the interest expenses in relation to such borrowings are reflected in 
finance expenses.
	y
The decrease in other finance income to Rs.10.04 billion is primarily 
attributable to the decrease in the exchange gains to Rs.9.46 billion 
compared to Rs.18.63 billion in the preceding year, mainly on account 
of the relatively lesser exchange rate impact on the Holding Company’s 
net foreign currency denominated cash holdings during the current 
year as compared to the sharp impact in the previous year. As outlined, 
the foreign currency cash holdings include the funds earmarked for 
the equity infusions of the ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’ project 
and the funds raised for the Group’s investment pipeline via the debt 
drawdown from the IFC long-term loan facility.
Further details on finance income can be found in the Notes to the Financial 
Statements section of this Report.
Finance Expense
The finance expense, which includes interest expense of the Group, 
increased by 153% to Rs.17.80 billion, compared to Rs.7.03 billion recorded 
in 2021/22. Whilst the total debt level of the Group including lease liabilities, 
decreased by Rs.4.17 billion to Rs.264.06 billion [2021/22: Rs.268.23 billion], 
the significant increase in interest rates as a result of the contractionary 
monetary policy measures and the translation impact from foreign currency 
interest expenses, contributed to the increase in finance expenses. 
The key reasons that contributed to the increase in finance expense are:
	y
Holding Company – on account of (1) the translation impact of the 
IFC loan interest, (2) notional non-cash interest of Rs.1.83 billion 
charged in line with market rates on the convertible debentures 
issued during the year, in line with the accounting treatment, despite 
the significant difference between the market rate and the 3% 
coupon rate and (3) an increase in Rupee borrowing costs in line with 
the planned funding strategy of the Group at this juncture.
	y
Retail industry group – in lieu of the rise in interest rates which 
affected facilities obtained for the funding of the roll-out of new 
outlets and increased working capital requirements to manage the 
supply chain disruptions in Q1 and Q2, in particular, and an increase 
in the funding costs associated with the distribution centre of the 
Supermarket business. The Office Automation business also noted an 
increase due to the increasing rate trends during the year. 
	y
Leisure industry group – due to the multiple facilities obtained across 
the businesses to better navigate through the challenges stemming 
from the Covid-19 pandemic in the recent years and the continued 
downturn in tourism. The translation impact on foreign currency 
interest also contributed to this increase.
In terms of composition, the largest contributor to finance expense 
was Other, including Information Technology and Plantation Services, 
accounting for 50% of total finance expense, followed by Retail (23%) 
and Leisure (17%).
INSIGHTS
Private Placement of Convertible Debentures to HWIC Asia Fund
In August 2022, the Company raised funds by way of a private 
placement of LKR denominated securities to HWIC Asia Fund (HWIC), 
a subsidiary of Fairfax Financial Holdings Limited, Canada.
	y
Rs.27.06 billion was raised by issuing 208,125,000 Sri Lankan 
Rupee denominated unrated, unlisted, unsecured convertible 
debentures at an issue price of Rs.130 per debenture.
	y
The debentures have a maturity period of three years and will 
accrue interest at a rate of 3% per annum. The date of maturity of 
the debentures is 12 August 2025 with HWIC having the option 
to convert each debenture to one new ordinary share of the 
Company during the conversion period commencing from 12 
February 2024 to 12 August 2025.
	y
The maximum number of ordinary shares that would potentially 
be issued under the conversion of the debentures would be 
208,125,000 ordinary shares.
Accounting Treatment:
	y
The convertible debentures were benchmarked against an 
equivalent plain vanilla debenture in order to segregate the 
liability (which is debt-like) and equity components associated 
with the transaction, as per the accounting standards. 
	y
The resultant liability embedded in the convertible debentures was 
recognised under non-current financial liabilities, whilst the residual 
of Rs.10.51 billion was recognised under other capital reserves. As at 
31 March 2023, the liability under non-current financial liabilities in 
lieu of the convertible debentures stood at Rs.18.38 billion. 
	y
The movement of the liability is as noted below. In the event of a 
conversion of the debentures, the liability outstanding as at the 
date of conversion will be transferred to equity, in addition to the 
residual that is already recognised under capital reserves. 
	y
Whilst the cash outlay in lieu of the convertible debentures 
stand at a nominal interest of 3% charged on the par value 
of the convertible debentures, the interest charged to the 
income statement is based on a market interest rate, which was 
determined upfront, and the corresponding liability. Whilst the 
market interest rate will remain static throughout the tenure of 
the instrument, the liability will increase quarterly. 
	y
Accordingly, the notional interest rate charged to the Income 
Statement will marginally increase across time as illustrated in the 
table below.
Rs.million
2022/23 2023/24 2024/25 2025/26
Opening balance
-
18,380
21,595
25,511
Recognition of liability
16,550
-
-
-
Interest charged to the 
Income Statement
2,239
4,027
4,730
1,947
Interest paid
(409)
(812)
(814)
(403)
Conversion to equity/
repayment 
-
-
-
(27,056)
Closing balance
18,830
21,595
25,511
-
FINANCIAL AND MANUFACTURED CAPITAL REVIEW

87
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
will be taxed upon realisation as per the tax regulations at the time, 
a deferred tax provision was recognised in 2021/22. Other, including 
Information Technology and Plantation Services, Financial Services and 
Transportation were the highest contributors to the Group tax expense 
recording tax expenses of Rs.3.23 billion, Rs.1.07 billion and Rs.560 million 
respectively. 
It should also be noted that the Colombo Ice Company (Private) Limited 
(CICL) recognised a one-off tax reversal amounting to Rs.755 million 
arising from the additional deduction due on account of enhanced 
capital allowance on its investment in the impulse factory.
Accordingly, excluding the distortionary effects of profits from associates, 
which is consolidated net of tax, and the above-mentioned adjustment 
at CICL, the effective tax rate (ETR) on Group profits stood at 30% against 
and ETR of 27% recorded in 2021/22.  
INSIGHTS
The new Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 45 of 2022 
introduced notable changes to the corporate income tax rates, 
which was implemented with effect from 1 October 2022. The 
ensuing table highlights the impact on Group businesses: 
For further details on tax impacts, refer the Notes to the Financial 
Statements section of this Report. 
Industry Group
Previous Rate
Revised
Rate
Transportation 
14%
30%
15% on 
dividends 
(direct or 
deducted 
at source)
Consumer Foods
18% applicable on the 
manufacturing sector
Retail
24%
Leisure
14% for the promotion of tourist 
activities
Property
14% for construction services
Financial Services  
24% for insurance, banking and 
stock broking businesses
Other, including 
Information 
Technology 
and Plantation 
Services
Information Technology – exempt
Plantation Services – 14%
John Keells Holdings PLC – 10% 
on capital gains, 14% on dividends 
and 24% on business income
Profit After Tax 
The Group profit after taxation (PAT) stood at Rs.18.90 billion for the year 
under review, a decrease of 8% [2021/22: Rs.20.44 billion].
As indicated in the graph below, the highest contributors to Group PAT 
were, Transportation, Financial Services and Other, including Information 
Technology and Plantation Services with contributions of Rs.9.01 billion 
[2021/22: Rs.733 million], Rs.5.67 billion [2021/22: Rs.4.31 billion] and 
Rs.3.88 billion [2021/22: Rs.16.63 billion], respectively.
For the recurring performance analysis, the reported PAT will be adjusted 
for all the impacts detailed under Recurring Adjustments. On this basis, 
the recurring Group PAT decreased by 32% to Rs.14.11 billion [2021/22: 
Rs.20.76 billion]. 
0
10
20
30
40
50
Composition of Finance Expense 
Composition of Finance Expense 
(%)
(%)
Transportation 
Leisure
Retail
Consumer
Foods
Property
Financial
Services
Other, incl.
Information
Technology
& Plantation Services 
FY22
FY23
2.4
4.0
2.6
5.4
26.6
23.0
19.3
17.3
2.0
0.7
4.6
0.0
42.6
49.6
The interest cover of the Group, excluding unrealised losses on UA’s 
equity portfolio, stood at 1.9 times in comparison to 3.1 times in 2021/22. 
The movement in the interest coverage stems primarily from the 153% 
increase in finance expense compared to only a 60% increase in EBIT. 
0
5,000
10,000
15,000
20,000
Finance Expense and Interest Coverage
Finance Expense and Interest Coverage
(Rs.million)
(Rs.million)
(times)
(times)
FY2019
FY2020
FY2021
FY2022
FY2023
Finance Expense (Excluding MTM Losses)
Interest Cover
6.9
4.4
2,635
3,105
6,716
17,803
1.8
3.1
1.9
0
2
4
6
8
4,395
Profit Before Tax
The Group profit before taxation (PBT) stood at Rs.22.59 billion for the 
year under review, a 17% decrease against the previous year [2021/22: 
Rs.27.32 billion].
The recurring Group PBT stood at Rs.17.14 billion for the year under review, 
a 30% decrease against the previous year [2021/22: Rs.24.43 billion].
Taxation
As per the new Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 45 of 2022, 
which was implemented with effect from 1 October 2022, the standard 
income tax rate was increased to 30% from 24% and exemptions and 
concessionary tax rates of 14% and 18% applicable on identified gains 
and profits and on select industries, was also increased to 30%. The 
increase in tax rates had implications on the tax expense for 2022/23. 
The change in tax rates also warranted the deferred tax for 2022/23 to be 
computed based on the revised tax rates, whereby the Group recorded 
notable changes to the cumulative deferred tax provisions. 
Accordingly, the Group recorded a tax expense of Rs.3.69 billion for 
the year under review [2021/22: Rs.6.88 billion]. The Group tax expense 
primarily comprises of a current tax charge of Rs.4.61 billion [2021/22: 
Rs.3.21 billion] and a deferred tax reversal of Rs.921 million [2021/22: 
charge of Rs.3.43 billion].
It is also noted that 2021/22 entailed a one-off deferred tax provision 
at the Holding Company. As noted previously, since the significant 
foreign currency exchange gain at the Holding Company for 2021/22 

88 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
(20)
0
20
40
60
80
100
Composition of Group Proﬁt After Tax 
Composition of Group Proﬁt After Tax 
(%)
(%)
Transportation 
Leisure
Retail
Consumer
Foods
Property
Financial
Services
Other, incl.
Information
Technology
& Plantation Services 
FY22
FY23
3.6
47.7
9.4
9.2
(4.2)
6.9
(6.4)
(1.9)
(4.8)
(12.4)
21.1
30.0
81.3
20.5
The breakdown of Group PAT, between PAT attributable to equity holders 
and non-controlling interest (NCI) are as follows:
Rs.million
2022/23
2021/22
%
PAT attributable to equity holders
18,174
20,213
(10)
Non-controlling interest (NCI)
722
230
214
Group PAT
18,896
20,443
(8)
Non-Controlling Interests (NCI)
PAT attributable to shareholders with NCI stood at Rs.722 million in 
2022/23, a 214% increase primarily on account of better profitability 
at Tea Smallholders PLC, in which the Group owns an effective stake 
of ~38%. Better profitability in the Leisure industry group, in which 
the Group owns effective stakes of ~80%, and an improvement in the 
profitability of the Group’s 90% owned insurance business, UA, also 
contributed to the increase in PAT attributable to NCI. 
PAT Attributable to Equity Holders of the Parent (Net Profit)
PAT attributable to equity holders of the Parent decreased by 10% to 
Rs.18.17 billion [2021/22: Rs.20.21 billion]. The net profit margin of the 
Group decreased to 5.8% from 8.3% in the previous year. The recurring 
net profit attributable to equity holders decreased by 35% to Rs.13.33 
billion [2021/22: Rs.20.41 billion], whilst the recurring net profit margin of 
the Group decreased to 4.3%, against the 8.4% in 2021/22.
0
5,000
10,000
15,000
20,000
25,000
Net Proﬁt and Net Proﬁt Margin
Net Proﬁt and Net Proﬁt Margin
(Rs.million)
(Rs.million)
(%)
(%)
FY19
FY20
FY21
FY22
FY23
Net Proﬁt to Equity Holders of the Parent
Net Proﬁt Margin (%)
9.3
6.0
14,254
9,414
20,213
3.3
8.3
5.8
2
4
6
8
10
4,772
18,174
Rs.million
2022/23
2021/22
%
Revenue
2,544
1,876
36
Dividend income
10,635
8,008
33
Finance income
16,328
24,198
(33)
Finance expenses
(8,779)
(2,966)
196
Profit before tax
16,767
28,284
(41)
Recurring profit before tax*
 7,841 
 10,163 
(23)
Profit after tax
14,709
24,381
(40)
Recurring profit after tax*
 5,783 
 9,470 
(39)
Performance of the Holding Company
*Adjusted for the recurring impacts discussed under Page 82.
	y
The increase in revenue is primarily on account of higher 
commercial fees from Group businesses and associates as well as 
higher charges in lieu of the data analytics services rendered by 
OCTAVE - the Data and Advanced Analytics Centre of Excellence 
of the Group.
	y
Dividend income in 2022/23 recorded an increase due to higher 
dividend payments from Group subsidiaries and associates.
	y
Finance income, which comprises of both interest income and 
net exchange gains on the Group’s USD denominated net cash 
balance, noted a decrease due to a significantly lower foreign 
currency exchange gains during the year. The repayment of the 
USD 100 million six-month bridging loan facility in June 2022 
at WPL, the project company of the ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated 
Resort’, obtained as part of the refinancing of the USD 395 million 
syndicate term loan facility, and the conscious conversion of 
USD cash holdings in line with the Group’s funding strategy also 
contributed to this reduction in cash holdings. Interest income 
noted an increase due to higher interest rates. 
	y
Finance costs recorded a significant increase during the year on 
account of the translation impact of the IFC loan interest, the 
notional non-cash interest charged in line with market rates on 
the convertible debentures issued during the year, in line with the 
accounting treatment, despite the significant difference between 
the market rate and the 3% coupon rate and an increase in Rupee 
borrowings in line with the planned funding strategy of the Group, 
in addition to the increase in interest rates.
Assets
Assets
Equity and Liabilities
Equity and Liabilities
(Rs.million)
(Rs.million)
(Rs.million)
(Rs.million)
Property, plant and equipment, leasehold rentals paid in
advance, investment property and other non-current assets
Investments in subsidiaries, associates and non-current
ﬁnancial assets
Current assets, deferred tax assets and intangible assets
Shareholders' funds
Non-controlling interests
Non-current liabilities
Current liabilities
FY21
FY22
FY23
FY23
FY22
FY21
536,794
717,796
744,506
744,506
717,796
536,794
273,141
91,220
172,433
245,883
82,556
389,357
450,883
341,022
311,311
226,157
16,830
222,102
71,705
18,780
258,095
129,609
19,396
293,379
90,709
102,443
191,181
FINANCIAL POSITION
FINANCIAL AND MANUFACTURED CAPITAL REVIEW
Despite the challenging and unprecedented 
years, the Group has carried out significant 
investments which have continued steadfastly, 
maintaining the depth and breadth of the 
Group’s long-term investment strategy which is 
now coming in fruition.

89
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
LEVERAGE AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE
Group Assets
Group’s total assets as at 31 March 2023 stood at Rs.744.51 billion, an 
increase of Rs.26.71 billion [2021/22: Rs.717.80 billion], primarily driven by 
an increase in property, plant and equipment (PPE), other non-current 
financial assets and investments in associates. 
	y
The increase in PPE is primarily on account of construction costs 
pertaining to the ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’. The construction 
costs associated with the hotel, retail and entertainment components 
of the ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’, which were captured 
as work-in-progress costs under other non-current assets, were 
reclassified as work-in-progress costs under PPE, given the transition 
of the assets of the hotel, retail and entertainment components 
under the Leisure industry group. 
	y
The increase in other non-current financial assets stemmed from 
Union Assurance PLC, due to proceeds from investments. 
INSIGHTS
Capital Expenditure
Despite the challenging and unprecedented years, the Group 
has carried out significant investments which have continued 
steadfastly, maintaining the depth and breadth of the Group’s long-
term investment strategy which is now coming in fruition.
The investments in recent years have focused on a refurbished 
portfolio of Leisure properties and the acquisition of a long-term 
lease on a new hotel in the Maldives. The Group has also doubled its 
store footprint in the Supermarket business to over 130 outlets and 
capacity and capability investments in the Frozen Confectionery and 
Insurance businesses. 
The Group is confident of its ability to fund projects, if feasible, and 
as required, thereby optimising equity returns in the long run. 
In addition to the routine maintenance capital expenditure, the key 
investments the Group will focus on in the near-term:
	y
Balance investment towards the completion of the ‘Cinnamon 
Life Integrated Resort’
	y
Investment towards the West Container Terminal (WCT-1) of the 
Port of Colombo
	y
Roll-out of the Supermarket outlets
	y
Completion of ‘Cinnamon Red Kandy’
Group Debt and Net Debt/Cash
As noted previously, in August 2022, the Company raised funds by 
way of a private placement of LKR denominated securities to HWIC 
Asia Fund (HWIC), through the issuance of convertible debentures. 
The convertible debentures are recorded under non-current 
financial liabilities in the Balance Sheet. Given the conversion option 
of the debentures, the analysis on debt will be discussed in the 
following manner:
	y
Group debt will include long and short-term loans, including 
overdrafts, lease liabilities and the liability arising from the 
issuance of the convertible debentures. Instances where total 
debt excludes lease liabilities will be explicitly mentioned.
	y
Given that the debentures have the option of being converted 
to equity, all indicators are discussed under both these 
eventualities. 
The below table illustrates the Group’s debt position considering the 
impact of leases and the convertible debentures.
Group Debt 
(Rs.million)
2022/23
2021/22
Including 
Convertible 
Debentures
Excluding 
Convertible 
Debentures
Including leases
264,060
245,680
268,228
Excluding leases
229,749
211,369
234,701
The notable decrease in Group debt (excluding both lease liabilities and 
the convertible debenture liability) stemmed from Waterfront Properties 
(Private) Limited, the project company of the ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated 
Resort’, on account of the repayment of the USD 100 million six-month 
bridging loan facility in June 2022. This facility was obtained as part of 
the refinancing of the USD 395 million syndicate term loan facility. The 
Group recorded a net debt position (excluding both lease liabilities and 
the convertible debenture liability) of Rs.111.03 billion, a 43% increase 
against the net debt position in the preceding year, which stood at 
Rs.77.61 billion. 
The decrease in Group debt (excluding lease liabilities and the 
convertible debenture liability) was primarily from Property, 
Transportation and Other, including Information Technology and 
Plantation Services industry groups with reductions of Rs.101.10 
billion, Rs.4.07 billion and Rs.538 million, respectively. In this regard, the 
following is noted:
	y
The notable decline in debt in the Property industry group is due to 
(1) the transfer of all assets and liabilities pertaining to the hotel, retail 
and entertainment segments of the ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’ 
being now classified under the Leisure industry group, in line with 
the nature of operations, which at a Group level has no impact and 
(2) the aforementioned repayment of the USD 100 million six-month 
bridging loan. 
	y
The decrease in the Transportation industry group primarily stemmed 
from a decrease in short-term borrowings at LMS, owing to lower 
working capital requirements and reduced constraints in issuing 
Letters of Credit. 
The ensuing illustration details the sources by which the total assets of 
the Group as at the period end, were funded.
Total assets 
of Rs.744.51 bn 
as at 
March 2023
46%
Shareholder funds
3%
Non-controlling interest
39%
Long-term funding/
creditors
12%
Short-term funding/
creditors
Funding 
Channels

90 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
FINANCIAL AND MANUFACTURED CAPITAL REVIEW
The net debt position (excluding both lease liabilities and the 
convertible debenture liability) of the Group increased to Rs.111.03 
billion due to the reduction in cash balances and short-term investments 
of the Group [2021/22: Rs.77.61 billion]. 
The Group’s net debt position (excluding lease liabilities and including 
the convertible debenture liability) stood at Rs.129.41 billion, a 67% 
increase against the previous year. 
The increase in net debt is largely due to the reduction in cash balances 
at the Holding Company, as envisaged, in line with the equity infusions 
for the Group’s investment pipeline and as morefully described under 
Cash and Cash Equivalents.
Group Debt (including lease liabilities and 
the convertible debenture liability)
Group Debt (excluding lease liabilities, and including 
the convertible debenture liability)
Group Debt (excluding both lease liabilities and 
the convertible debenture liability)
Rs.264.06 billion
Rs.229.75 billion
Rs.211.37 billion
2021/22: Rs.268.23 billion
2021/22: Rs.234.70 billion
2021/22: Rs.234.70 billion
2%
2%
10%
Group Debt (excluding leases)
Net Debt (excluding leases)
Rs.million
2022/23
2021/22
%
2022/23
2021/22
%
Transportation
 8,610 
 12,680 
(32)
 (1,068)
 2,129 
(150)
Consumer Foods
 6,536 
 3,114 
110
 5,988 
 2,499 
140
Retail
 20,510 
 15,342 
34
 18,930 
 6,886 
175
Leisure
 102,439 
 28,634 
258
 98,569 
 25,888 
281
Property
 1,161 
 102,260 
(99)
 (7,752)
 94,571 
(108)
Financial Services
 141 
 161 
(13)
 (12,857)
 (17,799)
28
Other, including Information Technology and Plantation Services
 71,972 
 72,510 
(1)
 9,219 
 (36,561)
125
Total (excluding Convertible debenture liability)
 211,369 
 234,701 
10
 111,029 
 77,611 
43
Convertible debenture liability*
18,380
N/A
18,380
N/A
Total (including Convertible debenture liability)
229,749
234,701
(2)
129,409
77,611
67
*The convertible debenture liability is captured under the Other, including Information Technology and Plantation Services industry group. However, for illustration purposes, this has  
been shown separately.
It should be noted that both Group debt and net debt excludes lease liabilities recorded from the adoption of SLFRS 16 – Leases. Lease liabilities as 
at 31 March 2023 stood at Rs.34.31 billion, a 2% increase against last year [2021/22: Rs.33.53 billion]. Additionally, net debt also excludes short-term 
investments of the life fund of UA, the restricted regulatory fund of UA and customer advances if any, as applicable.  
2022/23
Excluding convertible
debenture liability
Including convertible
debenture liability
2021/22
Asset turnover 
(times)
0.4
0.4**
0.4
Capital employed 
(Rs.million)
606,098
624,478
 598,319 
Total debt* 
(Rs.million)
211,369
229,749
 234,701 
Net debt / (cash)* 
(Rs.million)
111,029
129,409
 77,611
Debt/equity ratio* 
(%)
58.6
63.7
 71.1 
Net debt / (cash) to equity ratio* 
(%)
30.8
35.9
 23.5
Long-term debt to total debt* 
(%)
75.6
77.5
 67.7 
Debt/total assets* 
(%)
28.4
30.9
 32.7 
Liabilities to tangible net worth 
(times)
1.1
1.1**
 1.20 
Debt/EBITDA* 
(times)
4.7
5.2
 8.0 
Net debt (cash) /EBITDA* 
(times)
2.5
2.9
 2.7
*Excludes lease liabilities. 
**No impact from the inclusion of the convertible debenture liability
Key indicators such as the net debt/equity ratio indicate the Group’s ability to fund its investment pipeline, as and when required. It should be noted 
that debt and net debt/EBITDA ratios have improved largely on account of the significant turnaround in EBITDA as the businesses across the Group 
witnessed a strong recovery momentum and a growth in overall performance during the year under review, with most businesses reaching pre 
Covid-19 levels post the easing of restrictions. 

91
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
INSIGHTS
Maturity Analysis of Group Debt
In addition to the focus on the capital structure, which entails 
understanding the optimal level of debt financing and equity 
financing across the Group, emphasis is also placed on the dynamics 
of the debt structure, including the tenure of facilities, nature of 
facilities, amongst others.  
The maturity profile of the Group’s debt as at 31 March 2023 based 
on contractual undiscounted (principal plus interest) payments is 
illustrated below. 
Apart from the analysis of the long-term debt, the following should be 
noted in the context of the total debt of the Group.
	y
Short-term borrowings stood at Rs.8.70 billion and bank overdrafts 
at Rs.30.05 billion, which are primarily working capital and trade 
finance facilities which are payable within 1 year. A majority of 
such facilities are revolving debt and is continually repaid and 
reborrowed, subject to fluctuations on operating volumes and 
seasonality.  
	y
The residual portion of the Group’s debt is attributable to 
interest-bearing loans and borrowings. The capital repayment 
and associated interest attributable to interest-bearing loans and 
borrowings is spread out across the medium to long-term thereby 
ensuring that operational cash flows would suffice in meeting such 
requirements. 
0
20
40
60
80
100
Composition
(%)
Composition
(%)
Payments (principal and interest)
on interest bearing borrowings
(Rs.billion)
Payments (principal and interest)
on interest bearing borrowings
(Rs.billion)
CY24
CY25
CY26
CY27
CY28
CY29
onwards
Leisure
Holding Company
Retail
All other industry groups
Total (Rs.billion)
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
The following should be noted with regard to the illustration above: 
1.	 Interest bearing borrowings does not include the convertible 
debentures issued in August 2022. The liability component 
amounting to Rs.18.38 billion is recognised under Non-Current 
Financial Liabilities. In the event the debenture is not converted 
during the conversion window, an obligation for Rs.27.06 billion 
will materialise in August 2025.
2.	 The USD 225 million term loan facility at ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated 
Resort’, captured under Leisure, falls due for repayment in 
December 2026. Based on the structuring of the loan, ~75% of the 
loan is due for repayment in the final year where the intention and 
strategy would be to refinance a component at that juncture. 
3.	 The USD 175 million term loan from IFC, captured under the 
Holding Company, falls due for repayment in equally amortising 
capital repayments from December 2024 onwards. 
Contractual Undiscounted 
(principal plus interest) Payments 
(Rs.million)
Within 1 
year
Between 
1-2 years
Between 
2-3 years
Between 
3-4 years
Between 
4-5 years
More than 
5 years
Total
2023/24
2024/25
2025/26
2026/27
2027/28
2028/29 
onwards
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
  25,794
32,964
35,025
  77,783
  13,380
28,315
213,262
Note: The notable increase in contractual undiscounted (principal plus interest) payments on in 2026/27 is in lieu of the USD 225 million term loan facility at ‘Cinnamon Life 
Integrated Resort’, captured under Leisure, falls due for repayment in December 2026.
Currency Mix of Group Debt
Where businesses have foreign currency denominated income, 
borrowings in foreign currency are obtained to optimise on the 
comparatively lower cost of foreign currency debt. This strategy has 
been practiced in the Leisure industry group, in particular, where foreign 
currency receipts are regularly monitored to proactively evaluate the 
borrowing capacity of the business. Currently, ~Rs.151.49 billion of 
overall debt is denominated in foreign currency, which translates to 
~65% of total debt [2021/22: 84%]. 
In terms of foreign currency debt of the Group, the Leisure industry 
group comprises primarily of the USD 225 million term loan obtained 
for ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’ (repayment in December 2026), 
whilst the Holding Company includes the USD 175 million term loan 
obtained from IFC (repayment in June 2023). 
It is pertinent to note that the pressures on the exchange rate 
exposure arising from the ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’ project is 
mitigated to a large extent as the functional currency of Waterfront 
Properties (Private) Limited, its project company, is USD. Accordingly, 
the risk is largely hedged ‘naturally’ given the expectation of foreign 
currency linked revenue streams. Similarly, as at present, there is no 
foreign exchange translation risk on the IFC loan since there is an 
equivalent amount of cash retained in foreign currency at the Holding 
Company which provides a Balance Sheet hedge.

92 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
FINANCIAL AND MANUFACTURED CAPITAL REVIEW
Statement of Changes in Equity 
Total equity of the Group as at 31 March 2023 stood at Rs.360.42 billion, 
[2021/22: Rs.330.09 billion]. The increase was primarily in lieu of: 
	y
Group profit after tax of Rs.18.90 billion during the year under review. 
	y
Other comprehensive income of Rs.6.83 billion, which was driven 
largely by an increase in the foreign currency translation reserve 
on account of the translation impact on its foreign currency 
denominated subsidiaries and equity accounted investees, in 
particular WPL.
	y
An increase in the revaluation reserve which is attributable to the 
revaluation gains made on Investment Property, including the 9.38-
acre land at Vauxhall Land Development Limited. 
	y
Other capital reserve which increased by Rs.10.51 billion on account 
of the convertible debentures. 
For a discussion on the ROCE and ROE of the Group, refer ‘Strategy, Resource 
Allocation and Portfolio Management’. 
Given the ongoing challenging landscape, the Group continued to 
evaluate its resilience under various stress-tested scenarios. The Group 
continued to follow the various processes, frameworks and measures 
undertaken in the previous years to ensure a sustainable and agile 
operating model, with a focused view on cash management and 
liquidity. The need for such scrutiny was much more pronounced, during 
the year under review, given the unprecedented challenges the Group 
was faced with due to the macroeconomic challenges stemming from 
the precarious external financing position of the country and the lack of 
liquidity in the foreign exchange markets, working capital financing and 
trade financing limitations. 
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Group cash and cash equivalents as at 31 March 2023 stood at Rs.107.31 
billion against Rs.163.10 billion in 2021/22. Group cash and cash 
equivalents comprise of Rs.25.09 billion as cash in hand and at bank and 
Rs.82.22 billion under short-term investments. It is pertinent to note that 
of this, the life fund at UA amounts to Rs.3.59 billion whilst the restricted 
regulatory fund at UA amounts to Rs.3.38 billion. 
Despite the receipt of Rs.27.06 billion through the convertible debenture 
issued to HWIC Asia Fund during the year, the Group recorded a 
reduction in the Group’s USD cash holdings. The repayment of the 
USD 100 million six-month bridging loan facility in June 2022 at 
Waterfront Properties (Private) Limited (WPL), the project company of 
the ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’, obtained as part of the refinancing 
of the USD 395 million syndicate term loan facility, and investments 
towards projects such as ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’ and the West 
Container Terminal -1 were the primary contributors to this decline. It is 
noted that the repayment of the WPL bridging loan had no implications 
on the Group at a net debt level.  
In terms of the composition of the liquid assets of the Group, Other, 
including Information Technology and Plantation Services accounted for 
65% of cash and cash equivalents, of which a majority of assets are in the 
Holding Company, followed by the Financial Services industry group.
CASH AND LIQUIDITY MANAGEMENT
LKR
Working Capital/Liquidity
Rs.million
2022/23
2021/22
%
Current assets
182,787
238,929
(23)
Current liabilities
90,709
129,609
(30)
Working capital
92,078
109,320
(16)
Current Assets: The reduction in current assets is primarily driven by a 
decrease in cash in hand and at bank and short-term investments, as 
explained under Group Assets. 
Current Liabilities: Current liabilities recorded a 30% decrease, primarily 
owing to a decrease in the current portion of interest-bearing loans and 
borrowings by Rs.27.79 billion, trade and other payables by Rs.13.60 
billion, and short-term borrowings by Rs.6.13 billion. 
Cash Flow 
Cash and cash equivalents in the Statement of Cash Flows comprise of 
cash and short-term investments with a maturity of three months or 
less, and net of outstanding bank overdrafts. On this basis, as at 31 March 
2023, cash and cash equivalents decreased by Rs.94.25 billion, to Rs.40.31 
billion.
	y
Net cash flow from operating activities reflected an inflow of Rs.13.28 
billion for 2022/23, primarily on account of cash generation from 
operations and higher net finance income. 
	y
Net cash flow from investment activities reflected an outflow of 
Rs.78.89 billion, primarily due to purchases of Government securities 
in the Life Insurance business as part of the fund portfolio and 
increases in other non-current assets.
	y
Net cash from financing activities was an outflow of Rs.28.65 billion, 
primarily on account of the repayment of long-term borrowings 
across Group businesses, as outlined in detail in the ensuing section.
2022/23
2021/22
Current ratio 
(times)
2.0
1.8
Quick ratio 
(times)
1.6
1.6
Working capital 
(Rs.million)
92,078
109,320
The Group continued to follow the various 
processes, frameworks and measures to ensure 
a sustainable and agile operating model, with 
a focused view on cash management and 
liquidity. The need for such scrutiny was much 
more pronounced, during the year under review, 
given the unprecedented challenges the Group 
was faced with due to the macroeconomic 
challenges stemming from the precarious 
external financing position of the country and 
the lack of liquidity in the foreign exchange 
markets, working capital financing and trade 
financing limitations.

93
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
The ensuing section encompasses a detailed industry group-wise 
analysis of performance, whilst also providing insight to sector and 
business level movements, as applicable.
  Transportation
Income Statement Indicators
Rs.million
2022/23
2021/22
%
Revenue*
Transportation 
         78,189          34,727 
125
Ports and Shipping
         16,092             9,089 
77
Total
         94,281          43,816 
115
*Including share of revenue of equity accounted investees.
Transportation 
	y
The significant increase in revenue stemmed from the Group’s 
Bunkering business, Lanka Marine Services (LMS), which recorded a 
135% increase in revenue driven by higher margins from the increase 
in global fuel oil prices as well as volumes. Volumes were aided by 
the business’s preparedness in meeting demand, with LMS being the 
only importer of cargo at select times of the year, and the increase in 
domestic demand for fuel which arose due to the macroeconomic 
challenges in the country.
	y
The Bunkering business accounts for ~96% of revenue within the 
industry group, excluding equity accounted investees. The Logistics 
business recorded a 51% increase in revenue during the year under 
review, driven by new client acquisitions and increased rental rates. 
	y
Mack Air Limited (MAL) also witnessed a rebound in operations in 
tandem with the resumption of tourism which led to a significant 
increase in revenue coupled with new initiatives the business 
undertook to increase its product offerings during the year under 
review.
	y
Mackinnons Travels Limited (MTL) recorded a growth in revenue 
on account of increased ticket prices and initiatives to access new 
customer segments.
Ports and Shipping 
	y
The increase in revenue in the Ports and Shipping sector is mainly 
attributable to SAGT which recorded a growth on account of 
ancillary operations at the Port of Colombo (POC) despite a decline 
in volumes, in line with the overall Port of Colombo. SAGT’s revenue 
also benefited from the steep depreciation of the Rupee. 
	y
Maersk recorded a 73% increase in revenue aided by the increase in 
freight rates and the steep depreciation of the Rupee.
	y
IMMS recorded its first full year of operations during the year under 
review, with a sizeable increase in its topline.
INDUSTRY GROUP-WISE FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Rs.million
2022/23
2021/22
%
EBITDA*
Transportation 
       5,403 
        1,854 
191
Ports and Shipping
       5,228 
 (1,011)
617
Total
     10,631 
 843 1,161
PBT**
Transportation 
         4,342          2,025 
114
Ports and Shipping
         5,228 
       (1,011)
617
Total
         9,570          1,014 
844
*Note that EBITDA includes interest income but excludes all impacts from foreign 
currency exchange gains and losses, to demonstrate the underlying cash operational 
performance of businesses.
**Share of results of equity accounted investees are shown net of all taxes but includes 
impacts from foreign currency exchange gains and losses.
Transportation 
	y
LMS recorded a significant increase in EBITDA during the year under 
review aided by the margin increases which was complemented by a 
translation impact of the Rupee. 
	y
JKLL recorded a 6% increase in EBITDA due to a decrease in staff 
related costs and several productivity and digitisation initiatives 
to reduce the cost per cubic metre (CBM) despite the various cost 
pressures particularly with the high fuel prices. 
	y
DHL Keells recorded a significant increase in EBITDA due to reduced 
costs from digitisation initiatives, favourable exchange impacts 
coupled with a strong increase in revenue.
	y
MAL noted a significant uptick in EBITDA compared to the previous 
year on the back of positive exchange impacts and higher interest 
income.  
	y
Finance costs at LMS and JKLL increased on account of the high 
interest rate environment.
Ports and Shipping 
	y
In addition to the strong revenue growth which resulted in an 
increase in EBITDA, the profitability of SAGT was also supported by 
various cost efficiency initiatives. 
	y
During the year under review, SAGT recorded a one-off deferred tax 
charge amounting to Rs.1.35 billion on account of the significant 
change in income tax rates, as the share of results of equity 
accounted investees are consolidated net of all related taxes. 
	y
Maersk recorded a 73% growth in EBITDA during the year under 
review [2021/22: 49%].
The recurring adjustments for 2022/23 entailed one-off impacts from 
performance related initiatives, as articulated in detail in the Financial 
Performance section of this Review. Similarly, the comparative year also 
entailed various one-off impacts, which has been adjusted in order to 
ensure a like-with-like comparison.
The recurring EBITDA of the industry group, post adjusting for the 
aforementioned one-off impacts stood at Rs.11.96 billion, a 95% increase 
against the previous year [2021/22: Rs.6.14 billion].

94 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
FINANCIAL AND MANUFACTURED CAPITAL REVIEW
Balance Sheet Indicators
Rs.million
2022/23
2021/22
%
Debt*
Transportation 
8,610 
12,680 
(32)
Ports and Shipping
-   
-
-
Total
8,610 
12,680 
(32)
*Excludes lease liabilities.
	y
The decrease in debt at the close of the year under review of the 
industry group is mainly attributable to a reduction in short-term 
borrowings at LMS, owing to lower working capital requirements 
and reduced constraints in issuing letters of credit. This was partially 
offset by higher borrowings at JKLL on account of working capital 
requirements. 
	y
Lease liabilities as at 31 March 2023 stood at Rs.573 million [2021/22: 
Rs.109 million]. Total debt including leases stood at Rs.9.18 billion as 
at 31 March 2023 [2021/22: Rs.12.79 billion].
  Consumer Foods
Income Statement Indicators
Rs.million
2022/23
2021/22
%
Revenue
Beverages and Frozen Confectionery 
(FC)
         26,385          17,588 
50
Convenience Foods
            4,884             3,420 
43
Total
         31,269          21,008 
49
The ensuing discussion aims to provide an insight into the performance 
of the sectors across the quarters.
Beverages and FC businesses
(%)
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
2022/23
Beverages (CSD) 
revenue growth 
91
70
26
(6)
34
Beverages (CSD) 
volume growth 
56
13
(19)
(40)
(7)
FC revenue growth 
109
89
42
19
57
FC volume growth 
31
6
(19)
(30)
(7)
	y
As outlined in the Industry Group Operational Review, the Beverages 
(CSD) and FC businesses recorded strong revenue growth during 
the first half of 2022/23 of 79% and 98%, respectively in comparison 
to the growth of 3% and 9% for the same comparative period in the 
previous year. 
	y
Despite the macroeconomic challenges in the first and second 
quarters, both the Beverages and FC businesses recorded volume 
growth, with volumes exceeding pre-pandemic levels. It should be 
noted that the percentage growth in volumes is reflective of the 
comparative low base in both quarters of the previous year which 
were impacted by pandemic-related disruptions. Price increases 
undertaken across the product portfolio, to mitigate margin pressure, 
has also contributed to the growth in revenue. 
	y
During the third quarter of 2022/23, volumes of the Beverages and 
FC businesses were impacted on account of price increases and 
declining consumer disposable incomes, leading to prioritisation of 
essential items over non-essential items, which dampened demand. 
	y
In the fourth quarter of 2022/23, the increase in personal income 
taxes further impacted consumer disposable income, leading to a 6% 
decline in revenue for the Beverages (CSD) business. In contrast, the 
FC business achieved a 19% revenue growth, driven by the Impulse 
segment given its affordable price point per unit and smaller pack size.  
	y
The Impulse segment, which garner higher margins than the Bulk 
segment, was the main driver of revenue growth of the FC business. 
The Bulk:Impulse revenue mix was at 44:56 during the year under 
review, as compared to 51:49 in 2021/22. 
Convenience Foods
(%)
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
2022/23
Convenience Foods 
revenue growth 
75
67
34
(2)
39
Convenience Foods 
volume growth 
14
(11)
(33)
(48)
(22)
	y
Similar to the Beverages and FC businesses, the Convenience Foods 
business undertook price increases during the first half of the 
year under review, to mitigate the pressure on margins from the 
escalation in raw material prices and input costs. The price increases 
coupled with declining disposable incomes contributed to a 
contraction in demand and resultantly volumes across the quarters, 
especially due to preference for smaller pack sizes. The additional 
pressure on disposable income on account of the increase in 
personal income taxes further dampened demand during the fourth 
quarter under review, with the resultant decrease in revenue. 
	y
The general trade, modern trade and hotels, restaurants, catering 
(HORECA) channels recorded a decline in volumes of 25%, 23% and 
26%, respectively. However, the hotel channel recorded a growth of 
23% during the year in line with the gradual resumption of tourism 
although off a pandemic-impacted base.  
Rs.million
2022/23
2021/22
%
EBITDA* 
Beverages and FC
        2,854 
        2,953 
(3)
Convenience Foods
           442 
           549 
(19)
Total
        3,296 
        3,502 
(6)
PBT 
Beverages and FC
         1,108          1,962 
(44)
Convenience Foods
            55             385 
(86)
Total 
         1,163          2,347 
(50)
*Note that EBITDA includes interest income but excludes all impacts from foreign 
currency exchange gains and losses, to demonstrate the underlying cash operational 
performance of businesses.
As outlined in the Industry Group Operational Review, the significant 
increase in raw material prices during the first half of the year under 
review resulted in the proportion of raw material and packaging costs 
against cost of sales increasing in comparison to 2021/22, specially in the 
Beverages business.

95
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
0
20
40
60
80
The Cost of Sales Composition of the Beverages Business 
The Cost of Sales Composition of the Beverages Business 
(%)
(%)
Raw materials and
packaging costs
Energy costs
Others
FY22
FY23
58
67
2
3
40
30
0
20
40
60
80
The Cost of Sales Composition of the FC Business 
The Cost of Sales Composition of the FC Business 
(%)
(%)
Raw materials and
packaging costs
Energy costs
Others
FY22
FY23
3
5
21
15
76
80
0
20
40
60
80
The Cost of Sales Composition of the Convenience Foods Business
The Cost of Sales Composition of the Convenience Foods Business
(%)
(%)
Raw materials and
packaging costs
Energy costs
Others
FY22
FY23
3
5
20
17
77
78
	y
The performance of the first half of the year under review was 
supported to an extent by price increases which insulated the impact 
of eroding margins, together with the benefit of operating leverage on 
account of the growth in volumes and forward buying of raw materials.
	y
With global raw material prices gradually reducing from its peak 
levels witnessed, together with declining freight costs, the gradual 
easing of the country’s foreign exchange liquidity position and 
improved raw material availability, the costs of raw material declined 
in the second half of 2022/23, with impacts more pronounced in the 
fourth quarter. However, the decline in operating leverage continued 
to impact margins.
	y
The Convenience Foods business witnessed a similar trend in raw 
material prices, in line with the Beverages and FC businesses.
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Beverages and FC EBITDA  
(Rs.million)
1,041
843
322
648
Beverages and FC EBITDA 
growth (%)
332
68
(60)
(54)
Convenience Foods EBITDA 
(Rs.million)
192
166
80
3
Convenience Foods EBITDA 
growth (%)
151
70
(60)
(98)
	y
During the year under review, the EBITDA margin of the Beverages 
and FC businesses and Convenience Foods business stood at 11% 
and 9%, respectively [2021/22: 17% and 16%, respectively].
	y
In addition to the increase in raw material costs, other input costs, 
such as fuel, gas, electricity, and salary costs significantly increased 
due to the volatile macroeconomic conditions. 
	y
The social security contribution levy (SSCL) imposed with effect 
from October 2022 impacted the other operating expenses of the 
businesses. 
	y
The PBT of the industry group was impacted by the significant 
increase in interest costs due to additional working capital 
requirements coupled with the sharp increase in interest rates.
	y
During the year under review, the FC business recognised a deferred 
tax reversal arising from the additional deduction due to enhanced 
capital allowance on its capital investment at the Colombo Ice 
Company (Private) Limited (the Impulse factory). At a PAT level, this 
reversal was able to offset the impact of the increase in the corporate 
income tax rates from 18% to 30% during the second half of the year.
The recurring adjustments for 2022/23 entailed a reversal in the long-
term cash-based incentive provisions, as articulated in detail in the 
Financial Performance section of this Review. 
The recurring EBITDA which excludes fair value gains and losses on 
investment property pertaining to CCS and the reversal in the long-term 
cash-based incentive provision, amounted to Rs.3.18 billion, a 9% decline 
against the previous year [2021/22: Rs.3.48 billion].
The PAT of the industry group was also impacted by a deferred tax 
provision amounting to Rs.510 million as discussed in detail in the 
Financial Performance section of this Review.
Balance Sheet Indicators
Rs.million
2022/23
2021/22
%
Assets
Beverages and FC
19,429           16,309 
19
Convenience Foods
4,009             3,199 
25
Total
23,438           19,508 
20
Debt*
Beverages and FC
5,306
2,783 
91
Convenience Foods
1,230
331 
272
Total
6,536
3,114 
110
*Excludes lease liabilities.
	y
During the year, the industry group did not undertake sizeable 
investments due to the macroeconomic conditions, apart from 
routine maintenance capital expenditure. 
	y
The Beverages and FC businesses invested in ~1,900 freezers and 
coolers during the year under review [2021/22: ~3,700].
	y
The Beverages business recognised increased capital costs pertaining 
to the advanced data analytics transformation programme during 
the year under review.
	y
As at the end of 2022/23, the value of inventory of businesses in the 
industry group increased on account of inflation.

96 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
	y
A series of cash flow and working capital management initiatives 
were implemented across the year in response to the macroeconomic 
challenges and supply chain disruptions that impacted working capital 
cycles. As a result, the balances of trade receivables and trade payables 
at the end of 2022/23 decreased in comparison to the previous year.
	y
The increase in debt is primarily attributable to the overdraft facilities 
obtained to manage working capital requirements.
	y
Lease liabilities as at 31 March 2023 stood at Rs.158 million [2021/22: 
Rs.147 million]. Total debt including leases stood at Rs.6.70 billion as 
at 31 March 2023.
  Retail
Income Statement Indicators
Rs.million
2022/23
2021/22
%
Revenue
Supermarkets 
99,773          67,085 
49
Office Automation
7,076          23,757 
(70)
Total
106,849          90,842 
18
EBITDA* 
Supermarkets 
7,504 
        5,204 
44
Office Automation
1,328 
        2,346 
(43)
Total
8,832 
        7,550 
17
PBT
Supermarkets 
1,139
            849 
34
Office Automation
(581)            (842)
31
Total 
558                  7 7,871
*Note that EBITDA includes interest income but excludes all impacts from foreign 
currency exchange gains and losses, to demonstrate the underlying cash operational 
performance of businesses.
Supermarkets
Given the change in the shopping patterns of customers and the 
volatility of market conditions, the ensuing discussion aims to provide an 
insight to the performance of the business across the quarters.
2022/23
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Same store sales (%)
54.2
73.7
40.6
30.1
Revenue (Rs.million)
23,907
24,866
25,798
25,202
Revenue growth (%)
58
77
40
29
EBITDA (Rs.million)
 1,861 
 1,671 
 1,987 
 1,986 
EBITDA growth (%)
70
189
26
1
EBITDA margin (%)
7.8
6.7
7.7
7.9
	y
As outlined in the Operational Review, the Supermarket business 
recorded a strong performance with same store sales achieving 
double-digit growth driven by a combination of higher customer 
footfall and basket values due to high inflation and resultant price 
increases taken by suppliers. 
FINANCIAL AND MANUFACTURED CAPITAL REVIEW
	y
The benefit from the increase in revenue was offset to an extent by 
the significant cost escalations in operations on account of utility and 
staff costs.  
	y
The social security contribution levy (SSCL) ,which is a revenue based 
tax similar to the nation building tax in force a few years ago, which 
was imposed with effect from October 2022, had a further significant 
impact on the margins of the business. 
	y
Despite the aforementioned cost increases, the Supermarket 
business sustained EBITDA margins throughout the year by 
optimising logistics, providing affordable alternatives, and 
implementing data-led efficiencies.
	y
The PBT of the Supermarket business was impacted by higher 
finance expenses due to the significant increase in interest rates. 
Working capital requirements recorded an increase, particularly in 
the first nine months of the year, to ensure continuity of supplies 
and minimise disruptions. This has now stabilised with the business 
reverting to normalised levels of working capital, despite the high 
interest rates that continue to prevail.
Office Automation
	y
The Office Automation business recorded a significant reduction in sales 
volume due to the continued import restrictions on non-essential items, 
which was further exacerbated by the steep increase in unit prices of all 
imported products as a result of the depreciation of the Rupee.
	y
The volumes of the Office Automation business witnessed a gradual 
recovery as the foreign currency liquidity position of the country 
stabilised and recorded a positive EBITDA during the year. 
	y
Given the sharp depreciation of the Rupee, the business recorded 
a significant exchange loss on import settlements during the year 
under review, which impacted PBT.
	y
Finance expenses recorded an increase on account of the higher 
interest rates and working capital requirements.
	y
The PAT of the Office Automation business in 2022/23, was positively 
impacted on account of tax related adjustments, including a deferred 
tax reversal recognised during the year.  
The recurring adjustments for 2022/23 entailed a reversal in long-term 
cash-based incentive provisions, as articulated in detail in the Financial 
Performance section of this Review. 
The fair value gains/losses on investment property pertaining to the 
Supermarket business was recorded at Rs.3.1 million. Accordingly, the 
recurring EBITDA of the industry group, excluding the fair value gains 
and losses on investment property and the reversal of the long-term 
incentive provision amounted to Rs.8.78 billion [2021/22: Rs.7.55 billion].
The Supermarket business recorded a strong 
performance with same store sales achieving 
double-digit growth driven by a combination of 
higher customer footfall and basket values due 
to high inflation and resultant price increases 
taken by suppliers.

97
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
Balance Sheet Indicators
Rs.million
2022/23
2021/22
%
Assets
Supermarkets 
46,566
 40,615 
15
Office Automation
3,364
 11,861 
(72)
Total
49,930
 52,476 
(5)
Debt*
Supermarkets 
17,346
15,130 
15
Office Automation
3,164
212 1,392
Total 
20,510
15,342 
34
*Excludes lease liabilities.
Supermarkets
	y
The growth in the asset base was primarily attributed to the 
expansion of the outlet network and the increase in the value of 
inventory, driven by inflation. 
	y
The depreciation and amortisation expenses of the business also 
noted an increase on the back of the aforementioned increase in the 
asset base. 
	y
The increase in debt of the Supermarket business was primarily on 
account of funding working capital requirements during the year. 
	y
As at 31 March 2023, lease liabilities stood at Rs.10.32 billion, a 
marginal increase against the Rs.10.21 recorded in 2021/22. Total 
debt including leases stood at Rs.27.67 billion as at 31 March 2023 
[2021/22: Rs.25.34 billion].
Office Automation 
	y
The reduction in the asset base was primarily due to a decrease in 
inventory, trade and other receivables, as well as cash balances.   
	y
The Office Automation business witnessed a significant increase 
in bank overdrafts during the year under review, as a result of the 
aforementioned constraints and pressures in meeting working capital 
requirements.
  Leisure
Income Statement Indicators
Rs.million
2022/23
2021/22
%
Revenue*
Cinnamon Life Colombo**
-
-
-
Colombo Hotels  
            8,294             4,052 
105
Sri Lankan Resorts 
            6,043             2,871 
110
Maldivian Resorts
         22,605          10,398 
117
Destination Management
            2,853             1,610 
77
Hotel Management 
                 63                  31 
103
Total
         39,858          18,962 
110
* Including share of revenue of equity accounted investees.
** 800-room hotel under construction. 
	y
As discussed under the Leisure industry group operational review, 
the Sri Lankan Leisure businesses were impacted by the significant 
decline in tourist arrivals during the first half of 2022/23 due to 
economic, political and social instability in the country. However, with 
the gradual recovery in arrivals towards the second half of the year, 
the businesses recorded an increase in revenue, driven by improved 
average room rates (ARR) and occupancies. It should be noted that 
this is also off a lower base due to the Covid-19 pandemic in the 
comparative period.
	y
The revenue of the Colombo Hotels segment improved due to the 
strong performance in its restaurant and banqueting operations 
which reached pre-pandemic levels, coupled with a gradual recovery 
in business travel. 
	y
The revenue per available room (RevPAR) for both Colombo Hotels 
and Sri Lankan Resorts performed well against competition, 
particularly in the second half of the year once domestic leisure 
travel resumed on easing of fuel shortages. Tourist arrivals in March 
recorded the highest number of arrivals since the peak of the 
economic crisis.
	y
The Maldivian Resorts segment reported occupancies exceeding pre-
pandemic levels on average and improved ARRs. Revenue growth 
was also supported by the translation impact stemming from the 
steep depreciation of the Rupee.
	y
The revenue of the Destination Management sector increased due to 
the expansion into the luxury segment and improved performance in 
source markets.  
	y
The Hotel Management segment recorded an increase in revenue 
from higher management and marketing fees, given the improved 
performance across the hotels, as outlined above.
Rs.million
2022/23
2021/22
%
EBITDA*
Cinnamon Life Colombo
(523)
-
-
Colombo Hotels  
             580 
             60 
867
Sri Lankan Resorts 
         73
         (206)
135
Maldivian Resorts
        7,356 
        3,617 
103
Destination Management
             (258)              30 
(960)
Hotel Management 
           1,331 
           389 
242
Total
        8,559 
        3,890 
120
PBT**
Cinnamon Life Colombo
(507)
-
-
Colombo Hotels  
           (300)            (536)
44
Sri Lankan Resorts 
       (1,634)        (1,448)
(13)
Maldivian Resorts
            1,017             233 
336
Destination Management
            (147)             186 
(179)
Hotel Management 
            1,142             284 
302
Total
       (429)        (1,281)
67
*Note that EBITDA includes interest income but excludes all impacts from foreign 
currency exchange gains and losses, to demonstrate the underlying cash operational 
performance of businesses.
** Share of results of equity accounted investees are shown net of all taxes but includes 
impact of exchange gains and losses.

98 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
	y
The primary drivers for the recovery in EBITDA were the 
aforementioned factors impacting revenue .
	y
Despite adverse macroeconomic conditions, with the exception of 
‘Cinnamon Life Colombo’ and the Destination Management sector, 
all other sectors/segments of the industry group recorded a positive 
EBITDA during the year under review. 
	y
Given the near completion of construction works at ‘Cinnamon Life 
Integrated Resort’ and the focus and transition on the pre-operational 
phase of the project with the impending commencement of operations 
in the third quarter of 2024/25, the hotel, retail and entertainment 
components of the project were transitioned to the Leisure industry 
group. Accordingly, the EBITDA of ‘Cinnamon Life Colombo’ includes 
marketing and promotional costs and staff salaries incurred in 
preparation for its launch. All project costs, other than costs which are 
expensed to the Income Statement, are capitalised under property, 
plant and equipment (PPE) as work-in-progress costs. This includes 
interest on the loan taken to fund the project during construction. 
	y
The margins of the Sri Lankan Leisure businesses were under pressure 
given the rising input and utility costs as yields did not pick up 
commensurately since the benefit of foreign currency revenue was 
limited due to the gradual recovery of tourism.
	y
The negative PBT recorded is primarily attributable to the rise in 
interest costs across the Sri Lankan Leisure properties on account of 
working capital loans obtained during the pandemic and thereafter, 
during the first half of the year due to adverse macroeconomic 
conditions including the impact of increased interest rates on such 
working capital.
	y
The Maldivian Resorts segment experienced an increase in the lease 
amortisation charge for the year, given the USD denomination of 
the cost, particularly during the first half of the year when the Rupee 
sharply depreciated.
	y
Further, the Maldivian Resorts segment experienced an increase in 
operating costs, driven by higher fuel and staff costs, as well as an 
increase in interest costs due to the rise in USD interest rates. Despite 
these challenges, the Maldivian Resorts recorded a positive PBT.
	y
Various cost-saving mechanisms were implemented focusing on 
working capital management of all segments within the industry 
group. 
	y
As detailed in the Financial Performance section of this Review, 
Whittall Boustead Travel Limited recognised an impairment provision 
amounting to Rs.422 million on its investment in preference share of 
Saffron Aviation (Private) Limited (SAL) during the year under review. 
FINANCIAL AND MANUFACTURED CAPITAL REVIEW
The recurring adjustments for 2022/23 entailed the aforementioned 
impairment provision, reversal in the long-term cash-based incentive 
provisions and fair value gains/losses on investment property, as stated 
in detail in the Financial Performance section of this Review. Accordingly, 
the recurring EBITDA of the industry group amounted to Rs.8.60 billion, a 
127% increase against the previous year [2021/22: Rs.3.78 billion]. 
The PAT of the industry group was also supported by the deferred 
tax reversal of Rs.309 million as discussed in detail in the Financial 
Performance section of this Review. 
Balance Sheet Indicators
Rs.million
2022/23
2021/22
%
Assets
Cinnamon Life Colombo
235,452
-
-
Colombo Hotels  
39,269           36,046 
9
Sri Lankan Resorts 
23,236           20,280 
15
Maldivian Resorts
61,916           61,355 
1
Destination Management
1,807             2,014 
(10)
Hotel Management 
2,401             1,873 
28
Total
364,081         121,568 
199
	y
Given the transition of the assets of the hotel, ‘Cinnamon Life 
Colombo’, and the retail and entertainment components of 
‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’, under the Leisure industry group, 
assets recorded a notable increase. This is captured under property, 
plant and equipment (PPE) as work-in-progress costs. 
	y
The industry group continued to curtail its non-essential 
capital expenditure, to the extent possible, due to the volatile 
macroeconomic environment.  
Rs.million
2022/23
2021/22
%
Debt*
Cinnamon Life Colombo
74,423
-
-
Colombo Hotels  
2,051 
1,638 
25
Sri Lankan Resorts 
7,178
6,201 
16
Maldivian Resorts
17,260
19,257 
(10)
Destination Management
262
395 
(34)
Hotel Management 
1,265
1,144 
11
Total
102,439
28,635 
258
*Excludes lease liabilities.
	y
As part of the transition of the components of the ‘Cinnamon Life 
Integrated Resort’ project, the syndicate term loan of USD 225 million 
was recorded under the Leisure industry group, commencing from 
the third quarter of 2022/23. As a result, there was a substantial 
increase in the amount of debt attributable to the Leisure industry 
group. 
	y
Given the challenging external environment, the Sri Lankan Leisure 
businesses obtained overdraft facilities to sustain working capital 
requirements. 
Given the near completion of construction 
works at ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’ 
and the focus and transition on the pre-
operational phase of the project with the 
impending commencement of operations in the 
third quarter of 2024/25, the hotel, retail and 
entertainment components of the project were 
transitioned to the Leisure industry group.

99
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
	y
The Sri Lankan Leisure businesses also recommenced repayments 
on the Saubhagya Covid-19 renaissance loan, which had previously 
been granted a moratorium extension. 
	y
The Destination Management sector recorded a decline in debt due 
to the repayment of the moratorium loan facility. 
Lease liabilities as at 31 March 2023 stood at Rs.22.81 billion [2021/22: 
Rs.22.61 billion], with ~98% stemming from the Maldivian Resorts 
segment. Total debt including leases stood at Rs.125.25 billion as at 
31 March 2023 [2021/22: Rs.51.24 billion]. Total debt excluding the 
aforementioned debt at ‘Cinnamon Life Colombo’ amounted to Rs.50.82 
billion, a marginal reduction from the previous year.
  Property
Income Statement Indicators
Rs.million
2022/23
2021/22
%
Revenue*
Property Development  
         3,926          41,102 
(90)
Property Management
               651                375 
74
Total
         4,577          41,477 
(89)
*Including share of revenue of equity accounted investees.
Property Development
	y
The notable decline is attributable to the ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated 
Resort’, where the comparative year of 2021/22 included the 
revenue recognition of all units sold prior to the completion of the 
residential towers and commercial units. In contrast, there was no 
corresponding revenue recognised in 2022/23 in the absence of any 
sales during the year.
	y
The revenue of the Property Development sector includes rental 
income from ten floors of ‘The Offices at Cinnamon Life’ which were 
leased out during 2021/22.
	y
Whilst the construction of ‘TRI-ZEN’ progressed well during the year, 
the subdued sales momentum in 2022/23 impacted the quantum of 
revenue recognised compared to the previous year. 
	y
Revenue from the operation of the 18-hole champion golf course at 
Rajawella Holdings Limited (RHL) recorded an improvement due to 
a resumption in activities, particularly in the second half of the year 
under review, post easing of the shortage in fuel supplies.
Property Management
	y
Although the first half of the year proved challenging for malls on 
account of reduced footfall, the seasonal demand resulted in a 
recovery during the second half of the year. 
	y
The ‘Crescat Boulevard’ recorded a full year of operations during the 
year under review, contributing to the revenue increase in the sector.
Rs.million
2022/23
2021/22
%
EBITDA*
Property Development  
 (440) 
 2,723 
(116)
Property Management
 225 
 241 
(7)
Total
 (215) 
 2,964 
(107)
PBT**
Property Development  
       (2,294)        (1,030)
(123)
Property Management
            159             183 
(13)
Total 
(2,135)            (847)
(152)
*Note: that EBITDA includes interest income but excludes all impacts from foreign 
currency exchange gains and losses, to demonstrate the underlying cash operational 
performance of businesses.
**Share of results of equity accounted investees are shown net of all taxes but includes 
the impact of exchange gains and losses.
	y
The decrease in EBITDA of the Property Development sector primarily 
stemmed from the ‘TRI-ZEN’ and ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’ 
projects.
	y
The EBITDA decline of the ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’ was in 
tandem with the absence of any revenue from sales during the year 
under review.
	y
The previous year included a substantial EBITDA recognition of 
Rs.6.30 billion from the revenue of the handover of the residential 
apartment units and commercial floors at ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated 
Resort’, compared to the absence of corresponding recognition in 
the current year. 
	y
In discussion with the contractor at ‘TRI-ZEN’, the project construction 
costs were revisited given the escalation in costs on account of the 
steep depreciation of the Rupee, global commodity and freight cost 
increases, particularly to realign work to meet timely completion. As 
the cost escalation impact is allocated to the profit recognition on 
the project, there was an adjustment in the current year to reflect 
the cost impact on the sales already recognised in the previous 
financial years, which affected the current year profitability somewhat 
materially. Since this adjustment has been fully absorbed in the 
current financial year, going forward, the revenue recognition of ‘TRI-
ZEN’ will result in positive profit recognition over the ensuing quarters 
up to and including project completion.
	y
It is encouraging to note that all other businesses within the Property 
Development sector recorded a positive EBITDA during the year. 
	y
Discussions on EBITDA for the Property industry group are inclusive 
of fair value gains/losses on investment property (IP). The Group is of 
the view that fair value gains/losses on IP are integral to the industry 
group’s core operations, given its land banking strategy and the 
intention of monetising such land through development and sales. 
	y
The fair value gains/ losses on IP for the industry group amounted 
to a gain of Rs.525 million in 2022/23 in comparison to the loss of 
Rs.4.29 billion recorded in 2021/22. The previous year includes an 
IP loss of Rs.4.90 billion at Waterfront Properties (Private) Limited 
(WPL) as detailed in the Financial Performance section of this Review. 
Excluding the WPL impairment loss, the industry group recorded a 
gain of Rs.614 million in 2021/22. 

100 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
FINANCIAL AND MANUFACTURED CAPITAL REVIEW
	y
The recurring adjustments for 2022/23 are detailed in the Financial 
Performance section of this Review. Accordingly, the recurring 
EBITDA of the industry group amounted to a loss of Rs.265 million, 
declining significantly from the recurring EBITDA of Rs.7.87 billion 
recorded in 2021/22.  
	y
The PBT of the industry group was impacted on account of the 
exchange losses on sales collections at ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated 
Resort’, for which the corresponding revenue was recognised in the 
previous financial year. As collections have now been completed, 
there are no further exchange impacts expected on the residual 
units.
	y
The decrease in PBT within the Property Management sector is 
primarily attributable to increased expenses associated with the 
management of the Group’s real estate assets.
	y
The PAT of the industry group was also impacted by the deferred tax 
provision of Rs.138 million, on account of the significant change in 
income tax rates.   
Balance Sheet Indicators
Rs.million
2022/23
2021/22
%
Assets
Property Development  
        82,578         265,204 
(69)
Property Management
11,743           11,550 
2
Total
        94,321         276,754 
(66)
	y
Given the near completion of construction works at ‘Cinnamon Life 
Integrated Resort’ and the focus and transition on the pre-operational 
phase of the project with the impending commencement of 
operations in end 2024, the assets and liabilities of the hotel, retail 
and entertainment components of the project were transitioned to 
the Leisure industry group from the Property industry group. The 
property development components of the project, namely, the two 
residential apartment towers and the commercial tower continue 
to be recorded under the Property industry group. Accordingly, the 
Property Development sector recorded a decline in assets. 
	y
The cost of construction of the commercial tower at the ‘Cinnamon 
Life Integrated Resort’ is recognised under investment property as at 
31 March 2023. 
	y
In June 2022, WPL repaid the USD 100 million six-month bridging 
loan facility which was obtained in December 2021 as a part of 
the refinancing package of the USD 395 million syndicate term 
loan facility. The USD 100 million facility was obtained to align the 
refinancing with the original maturity date of July 2022. The loan 
facility now outstanding at WPL is the USD 225 million syndicate term 
loan, maturing in December 2026. It is to be noted that the syndicate 
term loan of USD 225 million at WPL was classified under the Leisure 
industry group, commencing from the third quarter of 2022/23. As a 
result, there was a substantial reduction in the debt levels within the 
industry group. 
	y
Excluding the debt at WPL in both comparative periods, the other 
businesses in the Property industry group recorded a 17% reduction 
in debt from the previous year which stemmed from RHL and its mall 
operation in Ja-Ela. 
  Financial Services
As the key businesses within the industry group comprise of the Banking 
and Insurance sectors, the ensuing discussion will predominantly focus 
on PBT and PAT, in order to capture the net earnings of the businesses as 
reflected in the financial statements of the Group.
Rs.million
2022/23
2021/22
%
PBT*
Insurance   
         4,020 
 2,645 
52
Banking
         2,710 
 2,148 
26
Stock Broking 
               21 
 202 
(90)
Total
         6,751 
 4,995 
35
PAT*
Insurance
       2,948 
        2,014 
46
Banking
       2,710 
        2,148 
26
Stock Broking 
             15 
           152 
(90)
Total
       5,673 
        4,314 
32
* Share of results of equity accounted investees are shown net of all related taxes.
Insurance 
	y
The business witnessed a steady performance in its gross written 
premiums (GWP), recording a growth of 6% during the year under 
review [2021/22: 17%]. The growth in GWP was primarily driven 
by a 12% increase in renewal premiums and a 3% increase in new 
business premiums and 57% growth in group life premiums.
	y
Claims and benefits increased by 24% to Rs.6.04 billion [2021/22: 
Rs.4.87 billion] on account of expansion of the insurance policy 
portfolio, increase in surrender payouts due to macroeconomic 
challenges and maturity payouts in accordance with the contractual 
obligations.
	y
Underwriting and net acquisition costs increased by 6% to Rs.3.13 
billion in line with growth in regular new business premiums and 
renewal premiums.
	y
Net finance income in 2022/23 stood at Rs.8.47 billion, a 57% growth 
against the previous year, stemming from a focused asset allocation 
strategy and high interest rate environment which prevailed during 
the year.  
The Insurance business witnessed a steady 
performance in its gross written premiums 
(GWP), recording a growth of 6% during the year 
under review [2021/22: 17%].
The growth in GWP was primarily driven by a 
12% increase in renewal premiums and a 3% 
increase in new business premiums and 57% 
growth in group life premiums.

101
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
	y
Life insurance contract liabilities including unit linked funds increased 
by 15% to Rs.58.91 billion in line with growth of the business.
	y
Despite the inflationary pressures, UA’s expense ratio was curtailed at 
25% in 2022/23 [2021/22: 23%] given prudent expense management, 
cost containment and optimisation initiatives implemented by the 
business.
	y
UA’s annual life insurance surplus increased by 44% to Rs.2.30 billion 
[2021/22: Rs.1.60 billion] contributed by an increase in GWP, increase 
in net investment income and optimisation of expenses.
Banking 
	y
NTB recorded a 116% growth in net interest income (NII), given its 
timely re-pricing of assets and effective management of its cost of 
funds. In tandem, net interest margins (NIMs) widened to 7.9% in 
2022/23 compared with 4.1% in the previous year.
	y
The Stage 3 loan ratio remained low at 3.4% [2022/21: 2.0%] given the 
Bank’s focus on preserving portfolio quality, particularly through data 
analytics. The Bank also adopted a prudent approach to provisioning, 
with the aim of managing potential downside risks given the adverse 
macroeconomic conditions. 
	y
Focused cost management strategies on the back of improved NIMs 
enabled the business to improve its cost-to-income (CI) ratio to 29.0% 
during the year under review [2021/22: 36.5%] despite a 35% increase 
in operating expenses on the back of inflationary pressures.
	y
The impairment charges for the year increased by 152% to Rs.13.63 
billion on account of the negative economic conditions coupled with 
the cessation of moratoriums on loans offered during the Covid-19 
pandemic. The downgrade of Sri Lanka’s sovereign rating also 
necessitated an increase in the impairment of investment in ISBs and 
SLDBs although the Bank’s exposure is relatively low in comparison 
with the industry.     
Stock Broking 
	y
The stock market displayed subdued performance on the back of the 
challenging socio-economic and socio-political environment, with 
the average daily market turnover declining by 56% as compared 
to the previous year. This resulted in the business recording a 
contraction in revenue.  
	y
During the year under review, the increase in staff costs and IT 
related expenses impacted the profitability of the business. However, 
the business continued to focus on improving revenue from the 
retail segment. Emphasis was also placed on the roll-out of various 
initiatives aimed at managing operational costs, which resulted in 
productivity and cost efficiencies.
The recurring PBT of the industry group, post adjusting for the deferred 
tax provisions of equity accounted investees and one-off impacts from 
performance related initiatives stood at Rs.6.40 billion [2021/22: Rs.4.99 
billion].
  	Other, including Information Technology and 
Plantation Services 
Information Technology 
Rs.million
2022/23
2021/22
%
Income Statement Indicators
Revenue 
2,273 
1,456 
56
EBITDA*
           769 
           451 
71
PBT
            731             518 
41
Balance Sheet Indicators
Debt
158 
62 
155
*Note that EBITDA includes interest income but excludes all impacts from foreign 
currency exchange gains and losses, to demonstrate the underlying cash operational 
performance of businesses.
	y
The Information Technology sector recorded a strong growth in 
revenue on account of onboarding new clients and expanding the 
scope of services. 
	y
The growth in EBITDA in the Information Technology sector was 
driven by the translation impact on foreign currency linked revenue 
at both Infomate and JKIT, given the higher average exchange rate 
during the year in comparison to 2021/22.
	y
On a recurring basis, the PBT of the Information Technology sector 
stood at Rs.697 million in comparison to Rs.412 million in 2021/22. 
	y
The increase in debt in the Information Technology sector is 
attributable to an increase in bank overdrafts to manage working 
capital requirements.
Plantation Services 
Rs.million
2022/23
2021/22
%
Income Statement Indicators
Revenue 
4,509 
2,496 
81
EBITDA*
       1,036 
           285 
264
PBT
            914             170 
438
Balance Sheet Indicators
Debt
85 
311 
(73)
*Note that EBITDA includes interest income but excludes all impacts from foreign 
currency exchange gains and losses, to demonstrate the underlying cash operational 
performance of businesses.
	y
The Plantation Services sector recorded a growth in revenue driven 
by improved tea prices. Volumes were impacted by the lower 
production levels in the industry as a result of the lagged effect of the 
fertiliser shortage in the country during 2021/22.  
	y
EBITDA in the Plantation Services sector was supported by an increase in 
interest income driven by higher interest rates. 
	y
On a recurring basis, the PBT of the Plantation Services sector stood 
at Rs.822 million in comparison to Rs.122 million in 2021/22.
	y
The Plantation Services sector noted a decrease in debt on account 
of settling bank overdrafts which were obtained in the previous year 
to manage working capital requirements. 

102 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
FINANCIAL AND MANUFACTURED CAPITAL REVIEW
Other 
Rs.million
2022/23
2021/22
%
Income Statement Indicators
Revenue 
93 
90 
3
EBITDA*
4,847 
4,754 
2
PBT
5,465        20,402 
(73)
Balance Sheet Indicators
Debt
90,109 
72,136 
25
Net Debt**
23,295 
(40,095)
(158)
*Note that EBITDA includes interest income but excludes all impacts from foreign currency exchange 
gains and losses, to demonstrate the underlying cash operational performance of businesses.
**Net debt is arrived by subtracting the Holding Company’s total cash and cash equivalents, 
including its short-term investments from its total debt.
	y
The marginal growth in revenue of the Holding Company is primarily on 
account of higher commercial fees from associates of the Group.
	y
EBITDA of the Holding Company were supported by an increase in interest income 
driven by higher interest rates and the translation impact on foreign currency 
interest income.
	y
The PBT of the Holding Company was impacted by an increase in finance 
expenses as a result of the increase in interest rates, the translation impact of 
the IFC loan interest payment and the notional non-cash interest charged on 
the convertible debentures issued to HWIC Asia Fund (HWIC) in August 2022, in 
line with the accounting treatment, due to significant difference between the 
market interest rates and the 3% interest accrued on the instrument. 
	y
The Holding Company recorded a decline in its net debt position due to the 
reduction in its cash balance in line with the planned equity infusions for the 
Group’s investment pipeline, particularly for the equity infusions to ‘Cinnamon 
Life Integrated Resort’ and WCT-1, and an increase in debt on account of the 
issue of convertible debentures to HWIC. The liability of the debentures is 
recognised under non-current financial liabilities. 
Refer page 62 for further details.
The industry group recorded fair value gains on investment property (IP) of Rs.131 
million which stemmed from the Plantation Services sector and investments at the 
Holding Company [2021/22: Rs.81 million].
The recurring adjustments for 2022/23 entailed one-off impacts as articulated 
in detail in the Financial Performance section of this Review. Similarly, the 
comparative year also entailed various one-off impacts, which have been adjusted 
in order to ensure a like-with-like comparison.
The recurring PBT of the industry group stood at a loss of Rs.2.01 billion, a 191% 
decrease against the previous year [2021/22: Rs.2.21 billion]. 
The PBT of the Holding Company was impacted by an 
increase in finance expenses as a result of the increase 
in interest rates, the translation impact of the IFC loan 
interest payment and the notional non-cash interest 
charged on the convertible debentures issued to HWIC, 
in line with the accounting treatment, due to significant 
difference between the market interest rates and the 
3% interest accrued on the instrument. 

103
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
NATURAL CAPITAL REVIEW
Carbon footprint 
103,597MT
FY22 98,685 MT
Energy used
909,583GJ
FY22 819,651 GJ
Water withdrawn
1.9million m3
FY22 1.8 million m3
Waste generated
8,322MT
FY22 8,193 MT
The Group has a comprehensive environmental management system which ensures sustainable 
principles are embedded in business operations and are conducted in a sustainable manner. These 
include energy conservation, carbon footprint reduction, optimisation of water usage, efficient 
waste management and conservation of biodiversity. The Group has identified material areas to 
minimise any negative impacts and externalities, and constantly strives to implement initiatives to 
conserve natural resources and create value for all stakeholders. 
Key Highlights on Focus Areas under Natural Capital
Key Highlights of the Year:
	y
The Group commenced development of an Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) 
framework, as a part of its ongoing efforts towards increasing its focus on ESG aspects. The 
framework would set and express clear ESG ambitions at a sector and Group level which would 
translate to defined goals and targets. 
	y
13% of the Group’s total energy requirement was met through renewable energy sources.
	y
The Group entered into an agreement to promote responsible disposal of e-waste with a 
licensed third-party collector and conducted an e-waste collection drive at office premises and 
at homes of employees.
	y
Under the ‘Plasticcycle’ initiative, ~24.8 MT of recyclable plastic waste (equivalent of ~745,000 
polyethylene terephthalate (PET) bottles were collected during the year.
	y
Under the ‘Cinnamon Rainforest Restoration’ project, the planting of ~15,000 seedlings 
representing 65 diverse species of wet zone indigenous trees was completed during the year in 
order to improve biodiversity.
Industry Group-Wise Highlights of Environmental Initiatives:
Consumer Foods
	y
Invested in four material recovery facilities to upcycle plastic waste collected through collection 
networks.
	y
A memorandum of understanding (MOU) was signed between Keells Food Products PLC (KFP) and 
the Island Climate Initiative to replace nylon-based packaging with suitable solutions.
Retail
	y
Toner cartridge recycling programmes were initiated at ‘Keells’ outlets.
	y
Renewable energy investments at further 14 ‘Keells’ outlets.
Leisure
	y
Initiatives were undertaken during the year to reduce the consumption of guest facing single-use 
plastic by introducing a range of alternative items, such as ceramic pump bottles, paper straws, 
wooden stirrers and cloth laundry bags.
Property
	y
Optimised energy usage through the building management system (BMS) in place at selected 
locations.
Financial Services
	y
Rationalisation and relocation of branch network and its operations into more energy efficient 
buildings.
Other, including Information Technology and Plantation Services
	y
Planting of 800 ‘mahogany’ and ‘halmilla’ trees at selected tea factories during the year.
The Group constantly strives 
to implement initiatives to 
conserve natural resources 
and create value for all 
stakeholders.
Note: The above initiatives disclosed are based on materiality. The Transportation industry group continued its environmental initiatives during the year.
SDG’s Impacted through Initiatives
7. 	 Affordable and Clean 
Energy
Continously increase the amount 
of renewable energy utilised and 
generated in the Group’s energy 
mix.
12. 	Responsible 
Consumption and 
Production
Energy conservation through 
adopting efficient practices and 
alternatives.
Optimising water usage by 
implementing efficiency 
improvements and awareness 
creation.
Encouraging reuse and recycling of 
waste alongside responsible waste 
disposal.
13. 	Climate Action
Monitoring and managing the 
Group’s carbon footprint through 
adopting alternatives to fossil fuels, 
where possible.
14. 	Life Below Water
Conservation of biodiversity and 
preservation of marine habitats. 
15. 	Life on Land
Conservation of biodiversity and 
sustainable use of natural resources.

104 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
NATURAL CAPITAL REVIEW
Approach 
The Group places prominence on identifying, measuring and managing its environmental focus areas through policies and processes which enable 
the Group to function responsibly, whilst minimising its environmental footprint and leveraging on opportunities to create a positive impact. 
ENERGY MANAGEMENT 
The environmental focus areas of the Group are derived through a 
materiality determination process, following which goals and targets are 
established under focus areas, to guide responsible business operations. 
The Group has reported on environmental indicators that are of 
significant importance to its operations below. 
Focus Areas
Policies
Environmental 
Policy
Energy 
Management 
Policy
Water 
Management 
Policy
Hazardous Waste 
Management 
Policy
Waste 
Management 
Policy
Biodiversity 
Conservation 
Policy
Processes
Strategy
Monitoring
Reporting
Initiatives 
to Improve 
Performance
Awareness 
Creation
Benchmarking
Goals and 
Targets
ESG Strategy 
As a part of the Group’s ongoing efforts towards increasing emphasis 
on environmental, social and governance (ESG) aspects, the Group, 
in liaison with an international third-party consulting firm, embarked 
on re-formulating the Group’s ESG framework, setting revised Group-
wide ESG ambitions and translating such ambitions to ESG related 
targets. This exercise is expected to ensure enhanced alignment 
between the different ESG strategies of the Group’s business units, 
culminating in a holistic ESG strategy and roadmap for the Group.
Sri Lanka faced numerous challenges during the year, on account of the 
volatility in the power and energy industry, both locally and globally, to 
which the Group was no exception. Given the high dependency on fuel 
and energy, many of the businesses faced challenges in sourcing fuel for 
daily operations amidst nationwide power shortages. Initiatives towards 
energy management, energy conservation as well as diverting towards 
alternative and renewable energy sources were key focus areas prioritised 
by the Group along with continuous investments in energy management. 
During the year, the Group continued to drive investments in renewable 
energy and focus on energy conservation through the implementation 
of initiatives, awareness creation and benchmarking with the aim of 
reducing its energy consumption and resultant emissions. 
Energy reduction goals and renewable energy goals were established 
in energy intensive businesses, which enabled the Group to manage its 
environmental impacts. Opportunities to deploy further investments in 
renewable energy continues to be a focus area of the Group.
Renewable Energy
The Group continued to drive investments in renewable energy in order 
to reduce its dependence on fossil fuel and reliance on the national grid. 
Renewable energy forms such as solar power and biomass are currently 
used in businesses with energy intensive operations. 
Key initiatives during the year:
	y
Supermarket business -14 ‘Keells’ outlets installed solar panels 
during the year, increasing the total number of outlets using 
renewable energy to 94 outlets. The renewable energy 
generated constituted 20% of its total energy requirement. 
	y
Consumer Foods industry group - renewable energy was 
generated in the form of solar power and biomass for factory 
operations. 
	y
Leisure industry group - five ‘Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts’ 
generated renewable energy in the form of solar power. Walkers 
Tours Limited invested in a renewable energy project to offset 
its carbon footprint and continued to maintain a carbon neutral 
certified fleet.
	y
Plantation Services sector - Tea Smallholder Factories PLC 
generated renewable energy through the use of biomass and 
John Keells Warehousing continued to utilise solar power.
Energy 
Management
Carbon 
Footprint
Water and 
Effluents Management
Waste 
Management
Biodiversity
Page 104
Page 106
Page 107
Page 109
Page 111

105
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
124,228 GJ
13%
of renewable energy 
generated
of energy generated through 
renewable energy sources 
2024/25 Renewable Energy Goal and Progress
Goal: To reduce the energy consumption in the Consumer Foods, Leisure 
and Transportation industry groups to achieve the target established for 
2024/25.
Progress during the year: 
Renewable Energy
	y
Retail Industry Group
Solar photovoltaic (PV) energy generation across the supermarket 
business against the 2018/19 baseline:
Goal
Status
Progress
125% 
 by 2024/25
63%
Note: The status disclosed above is the progress made at the end of the current financial 
year and is reported independently against the goal of the baseline year.
Energy Efficiency
The Group reported a 3% increase in energy consumption due to 
increased levels of operational activity in the Retail and Leisure industry 
groups. 
Key initiatives to conserve energy and use energy efficient 
alternatives during the year:
	y
Consumer Foods industry group – installation of capacitor 
banks at factories.
	y
Supermarket business – installation of timer switches on door 
heaters of freezers to conserve energy at ‘Keells’ outlets.
	y
Leisure industry group – the following were carried out at 
‘Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts’: 
•	
Light-emitting diode (LED) lights, photo sensors and time-
based garden lights. 
•	
Optimised chiller and air handling unit (AHU) operations.
•	
Installation of variable speed drives for chilled water pumps 
and reverse osmosis plants. 
•	
Investments were deployed in energy efficient equipment.
	y
Property industry group – optimised operating hours across 
the building management system (BMS) alongside heating, 
ventilation, and air conditioning.
1,156 GJ
32%
of energy saved through 
initiatives
reduction in energy intensity 
per Rs.milllion of revenue 
2024/25 Energy Reduction Goals and Progress
Goal: To reduce the energy consumption in Consumer Foods, Leisure and 
Transportation industry groups to achieve the pre-determined target by 
2024/25.
Progress during the year:  
	y
Consumer Foods Industry Group
Goal
Status
Progress
CCS	 :	 -1.5% 
	
-3%
KFP	 :	 -1.5% 
	
9%
CICL	:	
-2% 
	
8%
All goals are either on a per l/m3 or per kg basis
Steam
	y
Consumer Foods Industry Group
Goal
Status
Progress
CCS	 :	-1.5% 
-4%
Goals is on a per litre basis
	y
Transportation Industry Group
Reduction in energy consumption at JKLL Seeduwa and Enderamulla 
Warehouses:
Goal
Status
Progress
10% 
 by 2024/25
-3%
Note: In arriving at the status for the year for the indicators, the status disclosed above is 
reported independently by each year against the goal of the baseline year
	y
Leisure Industry Group
Goal
Status
Progress
-4% 
	
1%
Note: In arriving at the status for the year for the indicators, the absolute variation 
against the base year has been calibrated to reflect the level of activity in the baseline 
year, for a like comparison. The status disclosed above is reported independently by 
each year against the goal of the baseline year.
Group and industry group-wise performance comparison:
Group Performance 
2022/23
2021/22*
2020/21
Energy consumption: non-
renewable sources (GJ) 
386,837
301,172
216,253
Energy consumption: renewable 
sources (GJ) 
124,228
127,825
132,706
Purchased energy: national grid 
(GJ) 
398,518
390,654
349,195
Total energy consumption (GJ)
909,583
819,651
698,154
Total energy consumption (GJ) 
per Rs.million of revenue
3.53
4.49
2.75
* 2021/22 has been restated

106 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
JMSL
55.54
44.03
FY22
FY23
Retail
Retail
(kWh per sq. ft. of outlet area)
(kWh per sq. ft. of outlet area)
Energy consumption based on respective operating factors of key 
industry groups:
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
Energy Consumption by Industry Group  
Energy Consumption by Industry Group  
(GJ ’000)
(GJ ’000)
Transportation 
Leisure
Retail
Consumer
Foods
Property
Financial
Services
Other, incl.
Information
Technology
& Plantation Services 
FY21
FY22
FY23
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
Carbon Footprint by Industry Group  
Carbon Footprint by Industry Group  
(CO MT '000)
(CO MT '000)
Transportation 
Leisure
Retail
Consumer
Foods
Property
Financial
Services
Other, incl.
Information
Technology
& Plantation Services 
FY21
FY22
FY23
Leisure
Leisure
(kWh per guest night)
(kWh per guest night)
Colombo Hotels
107.11
88.97
56.62
49.72
54.64
45.77
6.21
6.43
Sri Lankan Resorts
Maldivian Resorts
Destination
Management
FY22
FY23
CCS*
0.16
0.14
0.63
0.60
1.16
1.25
CICL*
KFP**
FY22
FY23
Consumer Foods
Consumer Foods
(*kWh per liter produced / **kWh per kg produced)
(*kWh per liter produced / **kWh per kg produced)
Transportation
Transportation
(*kWh per ﬂying hour ⁄ **kWh per MT sold / ***kWh per sq. ft. of warehouse managed)
(*kWh per ﬂying hour ⁄ **kWh per MT sold / ***kWh per sq. ft. of warehouse managed)
LMS*
0.12
13.96
0.13
47.56
2.96
1.40
Cinnamon Air**
JKLL***
FY22
FY23
NATURAL CAPITAL REVIEW
Energy consumption per operational intensity factor  
in applicable* industry groups
*Based on materiality. Energy consumption within the Property, Financial 
Services and Other, including Information Technology and Plantation Services 
industry groups are not material.
CARBON FOOTPRINT
The main contributor to the Group’s carbon footprint was electricity from 
the national grid, followed by diesel, furnace oil, liquefied petroleum 
gas (LPG), petrol and jet fuel. The increase in carbon footprint was due 
to increased energy consumption driven by higher levels of operational 
activity in the Leisure and Retail industry groups. 
8%
29%
increase in carbon footprint 
reduction in emission intensity 
per Rs.milllion of revenue 
Group and industry group-wise performance comparison:
Group Performance 
2022/23
2021/22*
2020/21
Direct greenhouse gas 
emissions - Scope 1 (MT)
28,144 
27,507 
15,894 
Indirect greenhouse gas 
emissions – Scope 2 (MT)
75,453 
71,188 
66,114 
Total carbon footprint (MT)
103,597 
98,695 
82,009 
Total carbon footprint (MT) per 
Rs.million of revenue
0.38 
0.53 
0.64 
Greenhouse gas emissions from 
combustion of biomass (MT)
8,050 
9,172 
10,535 
*2021/22 has been restated
2024/25 Carbon Footprint Goal and Progress
Goal: To reduce the carbon footprint of KFP by reducing the scope 1 and 2 
carbon emissions and to achieve the pre-determined target by 2024/25.
Progress during the year:  
	y
Consumer Foods Industry Group
Goal
Status
Progress
KFP : -1% 
1%
Note: In arriving at the status for the year for the indicators, the absolute variation 
against the base year has been calibrated to reflect the level of activity in the baseline 
year, for a like comparison. The status disclosed above is reported independently by 
each year against the goal of the baseline year.

107
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
Carbon footprint based on respective operating factors of key 
industry groups:
Leisure
Leisure
(*CO kg per guest night ⁄ **CO kg per client serviced)
(*CO kg per guest night ⁄ **CO kg per client serviced)
Colombo Hotels*
86.12
73.47
39.71
41.73
39.26
36.07
4.25
4.91
Sri Lankan Resorts*
Maldivian Resorts*
Destination
Management**
FY22
FY23
CCS*
0.11
0.10
0.44
0.50
0.93
0.98
CICL*
KFP**
FY22
FY23
Consumer Foods
Consumer Foods
(*CO kg per liter produced / **CO kg per kg of processed meat produced)
(*CO kg per liter produced / **CO kg per kg of processed meat produced)
JMSL*
31.39
23.68
10.81
9.18
JKOA**
FY22
FY23
Retail
Retail
(*CO kg per sq. ft. outlet area / **CO kg per sq ft of office space)
(*CO kg per sq. ft. outlet area / **CO kg per sq ft of office space)
Transportation
Transportation
(*CO kg per MT of bunkers sold ⁄ **CO kg per flight hour ⁄ ***CO kg per sq of warehouse managed)
(*CO kg per MT of bunkers sold ⁄ **CO kg per flight hour ⁄ ***CO kg per sq of warehouse managed)
LMS*
8.08
3,510.38
10.67
3,661.90
9.08
4.25
Cinnamon Air**
JKLL***
FY22
FY23
Carbon footprint scope 1 and 2 per operational intensity 
factor in applicable* industry groups
Carbon footprint based on respective operating factors of key industry groups:  
*Based on materiality. Carbon footprint within the Property, Financial Services 
and Other, including Information Technology and Plantation Services industry 
groups are not material. 
WATER AND EFFLUENTS MANAGEMENT  
The Group makes a conscious effort to responsibly conserve and 
optimise water usage through initiatives in place and working towards 
established goals. Further, the Group reuses water, where feasible, and 
treats effluents prior to discharge. 
Water Efficiency 
The Group reported a 5% increase in water withdrawn due to higher 
levels of operational activity in the Leisure industry group. 
Key initiatives to improve efficiency of water usage during the year:
	y
‘Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts’:
•	
Installation of motion sensors, duel flush cisterns and pressure 
type cisterns in guest rooms and staff quarters. 
•	
Low flow rate faucets and shower heads were installed in guest 
rooms, staff quarters and public areas. 
•	
Rainwater harvesting were conducted at selected hotel 
properties.
•	
Training programmes were conducted on reducing water 
consumption at hotel properties.
	y
Daily monitoring of water readings and process efficiencies at 
businesses were continued during the year.
Effluent Treatment and Discharge 
The Group complied with required regulatory requirements as per 
relevant environmental protection licenses (EPL) during the year, when 
discharging water to the environment. 
Key initiatives during the year:
	y
Continued the onsite treatment of wastewater through aerated 
system sewage treatment plants, reverse osmosis plants and effluent 
treatment plants at operational sites and thereafter the treated water 
was used for gardening purposes at hotel properties.
	y
Recycled water was used in washrooms, vehicle washing, water 
closet flushing and cooling towers.
68,210 m3
of water conserved 
through initiatives
31%
in water intensity per 
Rs.milllion of revenue
24%
water recycled 
Carbon footprint reduction through use of renewable energy.
Effluent Treatment Plant at Ceylon Cold Stores.

108 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
NATURAL CAPITAL REVIEW
0
200
400
600
800
1,000
Water Withdrawn by Industry Group
Water Withdrawn by Industry Group
(m3 '000)
(m3 '000)
Transportation 
Leisure
Retail
Consumer
Foods
Property
Financial
Services
Other, incl.
Information
Technology
& Plantation Services 
FY21
FY22
FY23
53.1
5.4
10.5
31
(%)
Water Withdrawal by Source
Surface water  
Ground water 
Sea water 
Third party 
water-municipality 
16.7
48.6
0.6
10.4
24.6
(%)
Water Discharge by Method
Surface water
Ground water
Sea
Third party: municipality
Third party: provided
to another organisation
2024/25 Water Reduction Goals and Progress
Goal: To reduce water consumption in the Consumer Foods and Leisure 
industry groups to achieve the targets established for 2024/25.
Progress during the year:
	y
Consumer Foods Industry Group
Goal
Status
Progress
CCS	 :	 -1.3% 
	
-8%
KFP	 :	 -1.5% 
	
31%
CICL	:	
-2% 
	
-4%
All goals are either on a per l/m3 or per kg basis
	y
Leisure Industry Group
Goal
Status
Progress
-1% 
	
16%
Note: In arriving at the status for the year for the indicators, the absolute variation 
against the base year has been calibrated to reflect the level of activity in the baseline 
year, for a like comparison. The status disclosed above is reported independently by 
each year against the goal of the baseline year.
Group and industry group-wise performance comparison:
Group Performance 
2022/23
2021/22*
2020/21
Water withdrawal (m3)
1,931,418
1,843,259 
1,677,672 
Water withdrawal (m3) per 
Rs.million of revenue
7.01
10.10 
13.15 
Water discharge (m3)
1,200,051 
1,305,676 
1,091,384 
*2021/22 has been restated 
Water consumption based on respective operating factors of key 
industry groups: 
Leisure
Leisure
(Liters per guest night)
(Liters per guest night)
Colombo Hotels*
1,761.34
1,638.80
1,402.71
1,211.67
691.49
794.27
Sri Lankan Resorts*
Maldivian Resorts*
FY22
FY23
CCS*
4.04
3.65
5.77
6.83
17.92
20.81
CICL*
KFP**
FY22
FY23
Consumer Foods
Consumer Foods
(*Liters  per liter produced / **Liters per kg of processed meat produced)
(*Liters  per liter produced / **Liters per kg of processed meat produced)
JMSL
244.79
198.64
FY22
FY23
Retail
Retail
(Liters per sq. ft. of outlet area)
(Liters per sq. ft. of outlet area)
Water withdrawal per operational intensity factor in 
applicable* industry groups
*Based on materiality. Water consumption within the Transportation, 
Property, Financial Services and Other, including Information Technology and 
Plantation Services industry groups are not material. 
Reverse Osmosis Plant at ‘Cinnamon Wild Yala’.

109
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
WASTE MANAGEMENT 
The Group’s waste management approach follows best practice and 
guidelines to responsibly manage waste generated. All businesses 
engage in segregation of waste and explore options to divert waste from 
landfills to alternate methods of disposal, where possible. Businesses 
constantly evaluate processes to reduce or eliminate waste generated 
by consumers and continues to roll-out several initiatives to reclaim and 
channel waste for responsible disposal. 
Whilst the Group engaged in a range of initiatives to reduce waste 
volumes, significant emphasis was also placed on substitutes in order to 
reduce the use of plastic. 
Key initiatives during the year:
Reuse
	y
Supermarket business – 
•	
Launched a food waste reduction initiative by redistributing 
excess fresh produce and prepared meals to deserving 
communities, resulting in over 100,000 kg distributed monthly.
•	
Reuse of food waste at collection centres in the form of 
fertiliser to farmers. 
	y
Destination Management sector - reusable water bottles were 
provided to customers as a pilot project in select markets and 
will be rolled out in other areas as well. 
Reduce 
	y
Leisure industry group 
•	
Elimination of styrofoam products at ‘Cinnamon Hotels & 
Resorts’.
•	
Initiatives to reduce plastic consumption such as the use 
of ceramic pump bottles as a substitute of plastic shower 
bottles, wooden key cards as a replacement of plastic key 
cards and plastic cutlery substituted with wooden cutlery.
	y
Consumer Foods industry group - collected plastic from 
distributors thereby promoting responsible disposal. Elimination 
of certain types of secondary packing to reduce polyethene 
usage and reduction of plastic usage in manufacturing. 
	y
Financial Services industry group – adoption of a paperless 
concept. 
	y
Supermarket business - continued to encourage the use 
of reusable bags and containers by offering discounts and 
providing compostable bags at ‘Keells’ outlets.
Recycle 
	y
Maldivian Resorts segment - developed an artificial reef using 
reef cubes which are made from crushed waste glass and other 
construction materials.
	y
Consumer Foods industry group - development of material 
recovery facilities to increase the volume of plastic recycled in 
the country.
	y
Property industry group - continued recycling of paper waste 
and e-waste through Group contracted collectors. 
Compost
	y
Leisure industry group - food waste was diverted to onsite 
composting machines which aided the generation of biogas at 
selected hotel properties.
33%
46%
reduction in waste intensity per 
Rs.milllion of revenue
waste reused/recycled
2024/25 Waste Reduction and Plastic Reduction Goals and Progress
Goal: To reduce waste including plastic waste generated in the Consumer 
Foods and Leisure industry groups to achieve the targets established for 
2024/25.
Progress during the year:
	y
Retail Industry Group
Usage of single-use polythene bags at ‘Keells’ outlets by 2024/25:
Goal
Status
Progress
50% 
 by 2024/25
-25%
Usage of single-use packaging for fresh food by ensuring they are reusable, recyclable, 
or compostable by 2024/25.
Goal
Status
Progress
50% 
 by 2024/25
-25%
Note: The status disclosed above is the progress made at the end of the current financial 
year and is reported independently against the goal of the baseline year.
	y
Consumer Foods Industry Group
Goal
Status
Progress
CCS :	-1.5% 
-9%
Goals is on a per l/m3 basis.
	y
Leisure Industry Group
Goal
Status
Progress
-50% single use plastic
	
-38%
Note: In arriving at the status for the year for the indicators, the absolute variation 
against the base year has been calibrated to reflect the level of activity in the baseline 
year, for a like comparison. The status disclosed above is reported independently by 
each year against the goal of the baseline year.
	y
Property Industry Group
RHL aims to reduce waste to landfill by 80%, against the 2018/19 
baseline:
Goal
Status
Progress
80% 
 by 2024/25
-100%
Note: The status disclosed above is the progress made at the end of the current financial 
year and the performance measured against the goal will be reported independently of 
each year against the goal of the baseline year.

110 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
NATURAL CAPITAL REVIEW
Group and industry group wise performance comparison:
Group performance 
2022/23
2021/22*
2020/21
Volume of hazardous waste 
generated (MT)
        401 
338 
279 
Volume of non-hazardous 
waste generated (MT)
     7,921 
7,855
6,484 
Non-hazardous waste 
recycled/reused by Group 
companies and through third 
party contractors (%)
                  46 
32 
22 
0
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500
3,000
3,500
4,000
Waste Generated by Industry Group
Waste Generated by Industry Group
(MT '000)
(MT '000)
Transportation 
FY21
Leisure
Retail
Consumer
Foods
Property
Financial
Services
FY22
FY23
Other, incl.
Information
Technology
& Plantation Services 
30.9
39.6
13
9.0
2.6
1.2
3.6
(%)
Non-hazardous Waste Disposal by Method
Reuse
Recycling
Composting
Recovery
Incineration
Deep well injection
Landﬁll
19.8
3.4
1.3
1.2
2.4
3.3
68.5
(%)
Waste by Composition 
Organic
Paper/carboard
Plastic/ polythene 
e-waste
Hazardous metal 
Non-hazardous metal 
Glass/ceramic 
Other hazardous 
Other non-hazardous
45% of total Non-hazardous waste either 
recycled or reused by Group companies and 
through third party contractors.
Waste generation based on respective operating factors of key 
industry groups:
Leisure
Leisure
(Waste generated kg per guest night)
(Waste generated kg per guest night)
Colombo Hotels
3.76
3.39
1.82
1.66
5.59
4.94
Sri Lankan Resorts
Maldivian Resorts
FY22
FY23
CCS*
0.01
0.01
0.02
0.02
0.14
0.14
CICL*
KFP**
FY22
FY23
Consumer Foods
Consumer Foods
(*kg per liter produced / **kg per kg of processed meat produced)
(*kg per liter produced / **kg per kg of processed meat produced)
JMSL
3.33
2.43
FY22
FY23
Retail
Retail
(kg per sq. ft. of outlet area)
(kg per sq. ft. of outlet area)
Transportation
Transportation
(*kg per MT of bunkers sold / **kg per sq. ft. of warehouse managed)
(*kg per MT of bunkers sold / **kg per sq. ft. of warehouse managed)
LMS*
0.56
0.43
0.24
0.15
JKLL**
FY22
FY23
Waste generated per operational intensity factor 
in applicable* industry groups
*Based on materiality. Waste generation within the Transportation, Property, 
Financial Services and Other, including Information Technology and 
Plantation Services industry groups are not material. 
Reef cubes made using crushed glass from hotels.

111
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
The Group’s Social Entrepreneurship Project – ‘Plasticcycle’, completed 
five years of operations and continued to drive initiatives under the vision 
to be a catalyst in significantly reducing plastic pollution in Sri Lanka by 
encouraging the reduction in the usage of single-use plastics, supporting 
responsible disposal, and promoting recycling initiatives despite the 
challenging macroeconomic environment and resultant fuel shortages 
that curtailed mobility.
During the year under review, ‘Plasticcycle’ continued to drive behavioural 
change and encourage the adoption of the 4Rs (Refuse, Reduce, Reuse and 
Recycle) among varied stakeholders.
261 recyclable plastic waste collection bins placed island-wide  
since the inception in 2017/18
36 recyclable plastic waste collection bins were added to the bin 
network during the year
29.2MT of recyclable plastic waste (Equivalent of 876,000 PET bottles) 
collected during the year
Improving collection and expanding the ‘Plasticcycle’ bin network
	y
Collaborated with Ceylon Cold Stores PLC, Coca-Cola Beverages 
Sri Lanka and the Road Development Authority to place 16 specially 
designed recyclable waste collection bins at the exits of the central 
expressway in March 2023.
	y
Partnered with ‘Ghedora-Connects’ to encourage female 
entrepreneurship in the plastic waste collection industry, by paying for 
recyclable plastic waste collected by unemployed women. 
Supporting responsible disposal
	y
The University of Sri Jayewardenepura, a long standing project partner 
to find effective solutions to reduce plastic pollution, this year also 
partnered with ‘Plasticcycle’ in the ‘Leave Only Footprints’ project to 
ensure plastic waste collected from the Negombo beach was disposed 
responsibly.
	y
The annual staff activity ‘Code Green Agents of Change’ strengthened 
the commitment to the 4R pledge in November 2022, with a two-day 
competition held in multiple locations which included segregation of 
plastic waste, shopping plastic-free for a meal and upcycling plastic 
waste to create useful household items. 
	y
‘Bin-novate-22’ competition was a competition launched in April 2022, as a 
platform for the public to submit innovative designs for a recyclable plastic 
waste collection bin suitable to be placed in the coastal areas of Sri Lanka.
Awareness creation
	y
Awareness sessions were held throughout the year at multiple locations 
including schools, sports clubs, and hotels for ~3,000 participants on 
plastic pollution and importance of responsible disposal and recycling.
	y
Commemorating World Environment Day 2022, hosted a public 
webinar comprising a panel of industry experts on the impact of plastic 
pollution on the environment and sustainable solutions.
Social Entrepreneurship Project 
‘Plasticcycle’
Paper Conservation
The Group ensures that wastepaper disposed by its businesses 
is collected and recycled responsibly. During the year under 
review, 18,363 kg of paper was collected and recycled. The 
estimated savings are:
312 
trees
73,452 kWh
of electricity
55m3 
of landfill
583,576
litres of water
32,227 
litres of oil
Reduction of Green House 
Gas Emission by
18,363 kg 
of carbon equivalent
BIODIVERSITY
Given the Group’s reliance on natural resources, protecting and 
conserving biodiversity is a focus area that is of importance to the 
Group. Whilst this is pivotal to all businesses across the Group and 
is integrated with Group’s decision-making, this aspect is material 
to the Leisure industry group given that it leverages on diverse 
ecosystems as a part of its service offerings. Additionally, multiple 
initiatives are also undertaken through the Group’s CSR entity, 
John Keells Foundation (JKF), under its focus area ‘Environment’.
Webinar for awareness creation.
‘Code Green Agents of Change’ challenge.

112 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
NATURAL CAPITAL REVIEW
‘Cinnamon Rainforest Restoration’ Project
‘Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts’ continued its partnership with JKF, Ruk 
Rakaganno (The Tree Society of Sri Lanka) and the Forest Department 
of Sri Lanka on the three-year collaboration on ‘Cinnamon Rainforest 
Restoration’ project which involves the restoration of a degraded 59-acre 
plot in Suduwelipotha located in the Kalawana range in proximity to the 
Sinharaja forest reserve (a UNESCO world heritage site). 
During the year in review:
	y
Planted 15,315 seedlings of 65 diverse species of wet zone 
indigenous forest plants.
	y
Organised 10 volunteer initiatives with the engagement of 343 
volunteers.
	y
Recognised as ‘Asia Pacific Nature-based initiative of the year’ at 
the Environmental Finance’s Sustainable Company Awards 2022.
Cinnamon Citadel Kandy 
	y Mahaweli river and freshwater ecosystems, adjacent 
to property
	y Extent of Site (km2) - 0.0234
	y *IUCN Category 4 - Habitat/ Species Management Area
Cinnamon Bey Beruwala
	y Marine ecosystem, adjacent to property
	y Extent of Site (km2) - 0.045
	y *IUCN Category 2 - National Park
Cinnamon Bentota Beach
	y Marine ecosystem, adjacent to property
	y Extent of Site (km2) - 0.0446
	y * IUCN Category 2 - National Park
Hikka Tranz by Cinnamon
	y Marine ecosystem, adjacent to property
	y Subsurface Land at Site (km2) - 3,600
	y Extent of Site (km2) - 0.0176
	y *IUCN Category 2 - National Park
Trinco Blu by Cinnamon
	y Marine ecosystem, adjacent to property
	y Extent of Site (km2) - 0.1143
	y * IUCN Category 2 - National Park
Habarana Village by Cinnamon
	y Minneriya tank sanctuary, 15 km away from property
	y Extent of Site (km2) - 0.0378
	y *IUCN Category 2 - National Park
Cinnamon Lodge Habarana
	y Minneriya tank sanctuary, 15 km away from property
	y Extent of Site (km2) - 0.1031
	y *IUCN Category 2 - National Park
Cinnamon Wild Yala 
	y Yala national park, adjacent to property
	y Extent of Site (km2) - 0.0405
	y *IUCN Category 2 - National Park
Proximity to biodiversity and its features – Sri Lankan Resorts
Proximity to biodiversity and its features – Maldivian Resorts
Note: 	All properties have obtained EPLs. 
	
Unless explicitly specified, subsurface land at site (km2) - Nil.
	
*Protected through the Flora and Fauna Protection Ordinance 1937.
Cinnamon Dhonveli 
Maldives 
	y Marine ecosystem, 
adjacent to 
property
	y Extent of Site (km2) 
– 0.1496
Cinnamon Velifushi 
Maldives
	y Marine ecosystem, 
adjacent to 
property
	y Extent of Site (km2) 
– 0.05351 
Cinnamon Hakuraa 
Huraa Maldives
	y Marine ecosystem, 
adjacent to 
property
	y Extent of Site (km2) 
– 0.0543
Ellaidhoo Maldives by 
Cinnamon
	y Marine ecosystem, 
adjacent to 
property
	y Extent of Site (km2) 
– 0.0556
Velana 
International 
Airport
Note: 	Subsurface land at site (km2) -Nil.
	
Protected through The Environmental Protection and Preservation Act.
Group Staff Volunteers at the ‘Cinnamon Rainforest Restoration Project’ Site.

113
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
Nature Field Centre, Rumassala
Through a public private partnership with the Central Environment 
Authority and JKF, a Nature Field Centre was constructed and equipped 
by JKF in 2008 to facilitate the conservation of the rich biodiversity of the 
locality and experiential learning for students and others. 
During the year in review, the Nature Field Centre attracted 508 visitors 
and facilitated eight programmes for 450 persons. An awareness-cum-
publicity video on Rumassala and the Nature Field Centre was produced 
towards enhancing self-sustainable mechanisms of the Nature Field 
Centre in terms of awareness creation as well as promoting income 
generation opportunities through hire of the property for permitted 
private events.
Conservation of Aquatic Ecosystems
	y
A total of 25 beach cleanups were organised to reduce the amount of 
plastic and other non-biodegradable waste that is diverted into the 
ocean including three major events organised as follows: 
•	
Beach cleanup and awareness programme at ‘Hikka Tranz by 
Cinnamon’ with the participation of over 250 volunteers, including 
military and police officers, hoteliers and other stakeholders.
•	
Cleanup of the mangrove ecosystem of the ‘Huraa Island’ was 
carried out with the support of ‘Cinnamon Dhonveli Maldives’ and 
the local community.
•	
‘Cinnamon Velifushi Maldives’ collaborated with the local council 
to collect plastics on ‘Keyodhoo’ island. 
	y
170 children and staff of Hangnaamedhoo participated in an 
awareness programme titled ‘Save the Ocean from Plastic’.
	y
As part of ‘Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts’ continued efforts to combat 
climate change, in order to monitor and report ocean data to 
National Coral Reef Monitoring Programme (NCRMP) in the 
Maldives, sixteen ocean data loggers were installed to collect ocean 
information around all the Maldivian Resorts.
	y
The coral propagation programme implemented in the islands of 
Dhonveli, Ellaidhoo and Velifushi in the Maldives has 40, 100 and 10 
frames installed, respectively, around the inner and outer reef thus far. 
	y
Periodic removal of waste retained on coral reefs carried out by the 
in-house diving teams of the Maldives resorts.
Conservation of Fauna and Flora
‘Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts’ implemented the biodiversity management 
plan with the aim of developing a scientific database for the biodiversity 
around all ‘Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts’ in Maldives, the ‘Cinnamon’ 
Complex in Habarana, ‘Cinnamon Wild Yala’ and ‘Trinco Blu by Cinnamon’, 
especially endangered flora and fauna. Following the mapping, 
‘Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts’ intends to create awareness and develop 
action plans to take adequate action on the conservation of endangered 
species and manage invasive species. In the Hakuraa island in the 
Maldives, coral planting, turtle hatchlings, care and maintenance of 
the flora and fauna at the nearby sandbank, home for the endangered 
species called ‘white tern’, were undertaken.
Biodiversity Mapping Projects Carried Out 
Cinnamon Lodge 
Habarana and 
Habarana Village by 
Cinnamon
	y
4,006 plant species 
	y
376 types of fauna (131 invertebrates and 
244 vertebrates) 
	y
Among the recorded faunal species, 32 
were endemic to the island and 27 were 
listed as nationally threatened
Cinnamon Wild Yala
	y
114 Plant species 
	y
335 types of fauna (81 invertebrates and 
254 vertebrates) 
	y
Among the recorded faunal species, 22 
were endemic to the island and 28 were 
listed as nationally threatened
Mitigating Human-Elephant Conflicts
‘Live and Let Live’- a community driven project is a collaborative 
effort between ‘Cinnamon’ Nature Trails, the Centre for Conservation 
and Research (CCR) and TUI Germany to develop best practices of 
meaningful coexistence in mitigating the growing human-elephant 
conflict in Sri Lanka, in Badiwewa area which is home to 108 families 
whose primary occupation is farming and cultivation. This pilot project 
aims to save lives of both humans and the elephants, minimise the 
destruction of crops by 50%, to better utilise abandoned farmland due to 
elephant crop raiding and reduce damage to the property and resources 
in the village. During the year in review a five-kilometre elephant barrier 
around the village was maintained.
Awareness for School Children at Nature Field Centre, Rumassala.
Ocean data logger installation.

114 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
As one of the primary contributors to the Group’s value creation process given its creativity, idea generation and productivity, the management of 
Human Capital is of vital importance. Attracting, retaining, and nurturing talent whilst providing development opportunities enables the Group to 
ensure long-term sustainability of its operations.
Key Highlights on Focus Areas under Human Capital
Key Highlights of the Year:
Systems and Processes*
	y
Continued data-driven human resource (HR) system and power business intelligence (BI) HR 
dashboard analysing HR data, enables effective decision making.
Talent Management*
	y
Continued use of talent management tools of the HR system to monitor and manage 
identification of talent pools, critical job roles and talent succession planning.   
	y
Providing employment to persons with disabilities and working closely with the Employment 
Support for Persons with Disabilities (ESPD).
Compensation and Benefits*
	y
The Group introduced an equal 100 days of maternity and paternity days as parental leave at 
the birth or adoption of a child. 
	y
Introduction of an additional temporary crisis allowance 
Employee Engagement*
	y
Implementation of culture surveys and compensation and benefits surveys for addressing gaps 
and areas for improvement.
Learning and Development 
	y
Launch of the LinkedIn Learning Pilot programme. 
	y
Internal upskilling programmes 
•	
Support Squad
•	
Developing a lab-mindset
•	
Increasing the internal trainer pool, through train the trainer initiatives.
	y
Launch of dedicated learning platforms in selected industry groups such as Financial Services 
and Transportation.
Health and Safety
	y
Health and safety of all internal and external stakeholders were ensured through stringent 
procedures in place.
*These areas are governed by Group-wide policies and processes. Therefore, initiatives apply across all industry groups. Sector specific key initiatives carried out during the reporting 
period by the respective industry groups are stated under the ensuing sections. 
HUMAN CAPITAL REVIEW
Employees within seven 
industry groups
15,415
FY22 - 14,700
Permanent 
employees
8,920
FY22 – 8,429
Total contract 
employees
6,495
FY22 – 6,271
Expatriate 
employees
721
FY22 - 703
Female 
representation
33%
FY22 – 33%
SDG’s Impacted through Initiatives
4. 	 Quality Education
Continuous investment in 
employees through learning, 
development, skill, and capacity 
building.
5. 	 Gender Equality
Prioritise gender equity, increase 
female participation and 
opportunities for leadership.
8. 	 Decent Work and 
Economic Growth
Provision of a safe and healthy work 
environment for all employees.
10. 	Reduced Inequalities
The Group is an equal opportunity 
employer and does not tolerate 
discrimination of any form.

115
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
Approach 
The primary responsibility of the Group Human Resource Framework is 
to ensure the development and implementation of effective HR systems, 
processes and strategies across the Group businesses. This involves 
creating policies and procedures that align with the overall objectives 
of the Group while ensuring compliance with all applicable laws and 
regulations. The framework also designs and implements compensation 
and benefit programmes that are competitive and fair across the 
respective industries. 
During the year under review, the Group improved the Human 
Resources Information System (HRIS) by further augmenting power BI 
dashboards which enabled data-driven decisions and other efficiencies. 
Notable emphasis is placed on the focus areas identified under the Group 
HR framework which enable the Group to ensure sustainable value 
creation to all its employees, thereby enhancing its human capital base.
Focus Areas
Health and  
Safety
Talent 
Management
Employee 
Engagement
Compensation 
and Benefits
Diversity, Equity 
& Inclusion
Learning and 
Development
Page 120
Page 115
Page 120
Page 116
Page 118
Page 117
Composition of Group Workforce 
465
4,430
1,294
1,363
288
6,757
818
Transportation
Leisure
Other, including Information 
Technology and Plantation Services
Consumer Foods
Property
Retail
Financial Services
TALENT MANAGEMENT
The Group’s talent management strategy focuses on developing, 
engaging and retaining high performing employees and improving 
business performance. The talent management modules in the HRIS 
facilitate the identification of talent pools, critical job roles and effective 
succession planning across the Group. The internal job posting 
programme facilitated the movement of employees within the Group 
during the year, encouraging employee mobility across the Group. 
Career chats, skip level meetings, and development plans, among others, 
have been put in place to encourage key talent to engage in various 
discussions with the senior leadership team regarding their career 
aspirations and development needs. 
Initiatives adopted by the Group during the year:
	y
The Group Management Trainee Programme was completed 
for the 16th consecutive year. 652 candidates applied for the 
programme of which three management trainees were hired. 
	y
The Group in partnership with the London Stock Exchange 
Group of Sri Lanka and Unilever Sri Lanka facilitated a four-week 
summer internship for 15 undergraduates. 
	y
Conducted the Retail Management Trainee Programme where 
selected recruits were offered the opportunity to fast-track their 
career progression to managerial positions. Further, the Retail 
industry group provided ‘point of sale’ training to develop skills 
of sales staff.
	y
The ‘Cinnamon Management Trainee’ programme was 
conducted by the Leisure industry group aimed at developing 
competencies needed for future hospitality leaders.
	y
The Leisure industry group continued the ‘Cinnamon Care’ 
training programme, which sets the standard for cleanliness and 
safety in hotels and resorts. 
	y
Training was also provided to staff in the Leisure industry group 
on complaint handling and service recovery.
The Group continued its employer branding strategies during the year 
under review and was actively involved in numerous virtual programmes 
organised by local universities and institutes.
	y
Participated in the ‘What Next? The Career Expo 2022’ event organised 
by the Faculty of Management and Finance of the University of 
Colombo.
	y
Took part in the career fair and panel discussion hosted by Universal 
College Lanka in June 2022.
	y
Attended the official launch of Royal Institute Colombo’s data science 
master’s programme awarded by the University of London.
	y
Obtained accreditation as an ‘ACCA Approved Employer – Trainee 
Development’ - gold status.  
	y
Participated in the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants 
(CIMA) career day held in October 2022.

116 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
HUMAN CAPITAL REVIEW
Group Total Attrition
Group Total Attrition
(%)
(%)
Local: 99
Foreign: 1
<30: 79
Male: 60
>50: 3
30-50: 18
Female: 40
Attrition by region
Attrition by age
Attrition by gender
Group New Hire Attrition
Group New Hire Attrition
(%)
(%)
Local: 100
Foreign: 0
<30: 87
Male: 60
>50: 2
30-50: 11
Female: 40
Attrition by region
Attrition by age
Attrition by gender
The Group closely monitors attrition, with a particular focus on 
addressing attrition in sectors such as Information Technology and 
the Supermarket business, which inherently experience higher 
staff turnover levels. During the year under review, the Group’s 
attrition rate was 31% [2021/22: 29%] which includes resignations 
and vacation of post. The Group experienced an increase in labour 
migration triggered by the socio-economic environment in the 
country. To this end, the Group continues to work on adopting 
measures to manage this to the extent possible. 
The Group’s performance cycle enables the identification of high 
performers and setting of succession plans whilst simultaneously 
providing development and training to employees requiring support. 
In addition to the bi-annual formal feedback sessions of the Group’s 
performance cycle, continuous performance management (CPM) 
enables supervisors and teams to convert objectives into activities and 
record progress and feedback on a continuous basis. A cloud based HRIS 
enables all performance appraisals and career committee reviews to 
be performed virtually. In order to facilitate comparative compensation 
benchmarks, the Group conducted its periodic compensation and 
benefits survey through assigned third party external benchmarking 
consultant organisations.
In light of the increasing cost of living, interest rates and personal 
income tax rates, the Group provided a uniform financial care package in 
the form of an ex-gratia payment, to all eligible Group employees during 
the month of April 2022. An additional temporary crisis allowance was 
provided from January 2023 onwards, in addition to employees’ basic 
salary to assist employees in navigating the challenging macroeconomic 
environment. Further, other initiatives such as employee discounts, 
awareness sessions and webinars were arranged to aid employees in 
managing their personal finances.
During the year under review, the Group continued its agile work 
arrangements, where applicable, by offering flexible work arrangements 
in order to foster a culture of productive work-life integration. 
In addition to the employee share option (ESOP) plans granted to 
the vice president and above staff categories in the Group, the Group 
granted a one-time ESOP to eligible assistant vice presidents and senior 
assistant vice presidents during the last quarter of the year under review. 
The Group drives a high-performance culture, and a number of 
employee recognition schemes are available at both Group and 
business level to ensure that all employees feel appreciated, encouraged 
and recognised. Special budgetary allocations are made available 
every year for this purpose, with awards for innovation, disruptive 
digitisation, sustainability and CSR volunteerism also included in the 
Group’s recognition schemes. Online recognition tools such as ‘Badges’ 
are available on the HRIS for employees to recognise and appreciate 
their colleagues for displaying Group Values, going the extra mile, for 
outstanding work and great teamwork, which are, in turn, recorded on 
employee profiles and linked to their performance appraisal. Continuous 
feedback is made available for employees to give and receive feedback 
from their colleagues through the HRIS.
Chairperson’s Awards 
The John Keells Group Chairperson’s Awards was launched in 2004, 
as the highest internal recognition programme, to appreciate and 
acknowledge individuals and teams that have made a significant 
contribution towards the Group’s triple bottom line. Over the years, this 
annual recognition has evolved to comprise awards in the categories of 
Outstanding Achievement, Corporate Social Responsibility, Sustainability, 
Innovation, Disruptive Innovation and Diversity Equity, and Inclusion. In 
November 2022, eight winners were recognised in the aforementioned 
categories.
Employee Benefit Plans
	y
In accordance with the labour laws in Sri Lanka, employees are 
eligible for the employees’ provident fund (EPF) and the employees’ 
trust fund (ETF) contributions, whilst Maldivian nationals employed in 
the Maldives are eligible for the Maldives retirement pension scheme 
(MRPS) contributions. The total contribution made to the employee 
trust funds for the reporting year amounted to Rs.283 million (3% 
of salary contributed by the employer), whilst the total contribution 
made to the employee provident fund was Rs.11.29 billion (10% of 
salary contributed by the employer and 15% of salary contributed by 
the employee). In Sri Lanka, employees are also entitled to retirement 
gratuity. The employee benefits liability as at 31 March 2023 stood at 
Rs.2.6 billion.
Collective Bargaining
	y
The Group engages with trade unions through joint consultative 
committees and other mechanisms on an ongoing basis. Formal 
agreements are found in the Consumer Foods industry group which 
covers 1,156 employees, and accounts for 7% of the Group’s total 
employee count. TSF’s wage structure is aligned with the regulations 
of the country’s plantation industry.
COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS

117
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
Building on the Group’s future-focused learning culture and the need 
to align to a dynamic learning environment, the Group focused on 
enhancing the overall employee experience by promoting continuous 
engagement through various channels and interventions in order to 
foster employees’ growth, knowledge, skills, to drive better business 
performance.
LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT 
Training Hours by Gender
Training Hours by Gender
(No.)
(No.)
111,444
293,887
Female
Male
Training Hours by Employee Category 
Training Hours by Employee Category 
(Hours)
(Hours)
927
8,098
9,915
45,621
340,770
 AVP & Above
 Manager
Assistant Managers
 Executives
 Non Executives
*The higher number of training hours for non-executives were driven by the 
Supermarkets business; a majority of the non-executive cadre stems from the 
Supermarket business.
27
38
36
(%)
Leadership Development Programmes
Virutal
In-person
Blended 
51 leadership
development programmes
5
3
93
(%)
Soft Skills Development
Virutal
In-person
Blended 
87 training sessions
on soft skills development
7
93
(%)
Role Based Training Interventions
Virutal
In-person
152 role based
training interventions
Total Trainings
1,056
1,179
3,739
Rs.19.83 million
Rs.5.81 million
Rs.7.71 million
Total training hours
Total training hours
Total training hours
Total investment
Total investment
Total investment
Learning and Development initiatives during the year:
	y
The Group launched the LinkedIn Learning Pilot programme 
for a selected group of employees by introducing on-demand, 
self-paced, bite-sized e-learning content, to better facilitate 
development through curated learning journeys. 
	y
New learning initiatives were deployed as middle manager 
development programmes through internal faculty. 
	y
The Leisure industry group initiated the ‘Cinnamon Brand 
Ambassador’ programme with the objective of improving 
service levels of identified associates.  
	y
The ‘Outlet Manager Development’ programme by ‘Keells’ 
was conducted with the objective of development selected 
employees for future outlet manager roles. 
	y
Development programmes such as ‘Super six’ were conducted 
with the aim of developing leadership skills of the associates at 
‘Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts’. 
Training programmes conducted for employees.
Rs.33 million
405,331
Total investment
Total training hours
26
Average learning hours per employee

118 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
DIVERSITY, EQUITY & INCLUSION
The following initiatives were carried out during the year under review:
D
i
v
e
r
s
i
t
y
,
 
E
q
u
i
t
y
,
 
a
n
d
 
I
n
c
l
u
s
i
o
n
 
(
D
E
&
I
)
 
 
Introduction of gender-neutral 
terminology and strengthening awareness 
of gender identity
Key objectives: 
	y
Avoiding word choices which maybe 
interpreted as biased, discriminatory or 
demeaning by implying that one social 
gender identity is the norm.
	y
Normalising discussions about gender 
identity and creating an inclusive work 
environment for transgender and non-
binary individuals.
	y
Avoiding masculine generic terms 
and using suitable gender-neutral 
alternatives.
	y
Providing staff with the option of 
including respective gender pronouns on 
their respective email signatures.
Status of the Group’s five year Gender 
Parity goal
	y
Further to the commitment made by 
the Group in 2020/21, to increase female 
participation in the workforce to 40%, the 
Group continued to work on a diverse 
range of recruitment and retention 
initiatives which have resulted in an 
increase in female participation to 33% 
during the year in review. 
Promoting diversity in the Group’s value 
chains
	y
The second issue of the annual bi-lingual 
DE&I newsletter, ‘JK Connect’, was 
disseminated amongst the partners 
in the value chain, in April 2022. This 
newsletter is aimed at keeping our 
partners up-to-date on the ONE JKH 
initiatives and as platform for sharing 
knowledge and insights on success 
stories on DE&I, from across our value 
chains. 
Increasing career opportunities for Persons with Disabilities (PWD)
	y
In January 2023, the Group launched a policy and structured roadmap, which includes 
identifying roles across all our industry sectors that can be performed by PWD with reasonable 
accommodation, the appointment of supported employment officers, and conducting job 
mapping and awareness sessions by industry experts, such as Employment Support for 
Persons with Disabilities, which is a joint venture between the Japan International Cooperation 
Agency and the Department of Social Services Sri Lanka, and the Disability Organisations Joint 
Front (DOJF). With additional support through the participation in the International Finance 
Cooperations ‘Together We Can +’ Programme.
	y
ONE JKH was the principal sponsor of the event ‘Our Story’ organised by the DOJF, in 
commemoration of the International Day of Persons with Disabilities, with the objective 
of sensitising political authorities, policymakers, Government officials, and private sector 
representatives on the challenges faced by PWD in Sri Lanka.
The SanNap programme
	y
Further to the launch of the SAN NAP 
programme in 2021/22, in which phase 
one focused on providing sanitary 
napkins free of charge to our female 
employees, and phase two will provide 
the opportunity for all staff to offer 
their allotment to a family member, 
should they so choose. During the year 
in review, to increase awareness and to 
continue to break the stigma around 
menstruation and menstrual health, 
trilingual awareness sessions were 
conducted, across the Group, by medical 
professionals.
Introduction of equal 100 days of 
parental leave 
Key objectives: 
	y
By increasing paternity leave from 5 
days to 100 days, in August of 2022, the 
Group aims to eliminate discrimination 
associated with recruiting and promoting 
women, due to potential instances of 
maternity leave.
	y
Provide support to partners in the 
workforce, outside of the Group, enabling 
them to return to work after the end 
of their maternity leave, furthering 
our commitment to increasing female 
participation in the Sri Lankan workforce.
LGBTIQ+ inclusivity 
	y
In June 2022, the Group launched a 
trilingual e-module as a long-term 
sustainable solution to create awareness 
among our people on LGBTIQ+ inclusivity. 
Developed together with the Grassrooted 
Trust and EQUAL GROUND Sri Lanka, this 
e-module is a mandatory annual refresher 
and is part of the Group induction.
	y
Sponsored the 18th Annual Colombo 
Pride Festival whilst partnering with 
three events focusing on education and 
awareness.
	y
In recognition of being a corporate 
LGBTIQ+ ally, the Group was invited to 
be a part of a Pride Month series on Daily 
Mirror in partnership with iProbono, on 
the importance of inclusivity of LGBTIQ+ 
persons in the workforce.  
HUMAN CAPITAL REVIEW

119
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
Group Gender Diversity
Group Gender Diversity
(%)
(%)
Male: 67
Female: 33
Male: 66
Male: 64
Female: 34
Female: 36
Male: 74
Female: 26
Total employees
by gender
Workforce by gender
Contractors' personnel
by gender
Middle management
by gender
40
29
31
(%)
Workforce by Type of Employment*
 Total Permanent Employees
 Contract Employees 
 Contractor's Personnel  
8
36
56
(%)
Total Employees by Age
Above 50 
Between 30-50
Below 30
Composition of Key Management Committees
7 member Board of Directors
	y
2 members are between the ages of 30-50 whilst 5 members are 
over the age of 50
	y
2 female directors
8 Group Executive Committee (GEC) members (includes 2 
Executive Directors)
	y
2 members are over 50 years whilst 6 members are between the 
ages of 30-50 years
	y
1 female member
11 Group Operating Committee (GOC) members (excluding GEC 
members)
	y
8 members are between the ages of 30-50 whilst 3 members are 
over the age of 50
	y
4 female members
39
40
11
9
10
(%)
Contractor Personnel Employment by Type
Janitorial
Security
Transportation
Labor
Supporting staﬀ
Other
*The Group does not employ temporary, part time and non-guaranteed hours 
employees

120 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
The Group places significant emphasis on ensuring a safe place to work; 
any health and safety concerns are prioritised and addressed through 
robust management systems that are in place. This entails incidents 
being logged along with the cause of injury and severity, which in turn 
are tracked on a continuous basis.
Injuries
Employees
Contractors’ 
personnel
High consequence injuries (number)
-
-
High consequence injury rate (%)
-
-
Recordable Injuries (number)
234
14
Recordable injury rate (%)
1.5
0.2
Number of hours worked (million)
30.8
13.7
In order to ensure a healthy and safe environment, the businesses of the 
Group conducted the following initiatives: 
	y
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC and Keells Food Products PLC maintained the 
ISO 45001:2018 certification.
	y
Health and safety training were conducted for employees across the 
Group, which covered aspects such as fire fighting, fire safety and 
rescue, first aid, safe chemical handling, and food safety.
	y
ISO 45001:2018 occupational health and safety standards and ISO 
22000:2018 certification on food safety standards were maintained by 
‘Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts’. 
	y
In the Property industry group, ISO 45001 health and safety 
surveillance audits and internal audits were carried out to ensure 
maintenance, housekeeping, and security at all malls.
	y
The annual fire evacuation drill was conducted at the Union Assurance 
PLC head office in association with the Colombo Fire Brigade.
	y
The ISO 22000:2005 certificate was maintained at factories under Tea 
Smallholder Factories PLC, achieving zero product quality claims and 
improving product safety in terms of good hygiene practices.
	y
The Group conducted various programmes on mental health.
HUMAN CAPITAL REVIEW
HEALTH AND SAFETY
Fire safety trainings conducted for employees at CCS.
Great Place to Work
During the year under review, the Group conducted its periodic culture 
survey through the independent third-party organisation ‘Great Place to 
Work’, where the Group recorded a two-point increase in the index in the 
overall employee sentiment. The Group continues to implement initiatives 
to uplift the areas identified as concerns in order to enhance the employee 
experience. 8,053 employees participated in the culture survey from GPTW.
Staff Volunteerism
Staff volunteers continued to play a vital role in supporting the 
coordination, implementation and monitoring of the projects at 
John Keells Foundation (JKF), the CSR entity of the Group. Volunteer 
opportunities unify staff, promote cross-learning and create meaningful 
experiences. Staff volunteers range from project champions, sector CSR 
coordinators and volunteer trainers to those who engage in skill-based 
volunteerism, field work and administrative support. 
The year under review witnessed an increase in the number of volunteers 
engaged, following the resumption of normalised operations post the 
outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. 610 staff volunteers engaged in 
projects undertaken by JKF whilst 967 volunteer instances and 4,856 
hours were recorded. The aforementioned statistics exclude CSR 
initiatives that were independently undertaken at a sector/business level.
Some of the Group Staff Volunteers at Kala Pola.
Sports and Engagement 
	y
‘Career Week 2022’ was launched in the third quarter of 2022/23, with 
the aim of encouraging and assisting staff in steering one’s career 
towards their goals.
	y
Following a hiatus due to the Covid-19 Pandemic, employees 
represented the Group in mercantile tournaments for Netball, 
Hockey, Cricket, Rugby, Basketball, Badminton and Athletics. A few 
of the noteworthy achievements during the year in review include 
being named the champions of the 50th Mercantile Rugby Sevens 
Tournament, champions of the A Division Mercantile Cricket T20 
Tournament, champions of Women’s Plate category of the C division 
Mercantile League Netball tournament. 
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT
Mercantile Rugby 2022.

121
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL REVIEW
Given the unprecedented 
challenges on communities 
stemming from the 
macroeconomic crisis in  
Sri Lanka, the Group initiated a 
three-pronged Crisis Response 
initiative to address challenges 
surrounding health and nutrition, 
education and livelihoods.
Purchases from 
local suppliers
81%
FY22 – 90%
Persons impacted through 
community engagement  
1,553,971
FY22 – 1,955,639
Spend on CSR 
Rs.397 million
FY22 – Rs.97 million
Building sustainable relationships with customers, suppliers, community and all other stakeholders 
is pivotal to the Group to unlock long-term sustainable value. Multiple initiatives are undertaken 
throughout Group businesses to further strengthen its relationships with all its stakeholders. 
Focus areas and priority SDGs under Social and Relationship Capital
Key Highlights of the Year:
Crisis Response Initiatives
Given the unprecedented challenges on communities stemming from the 
macroeconomic crisis in Sri Lanka, the Group initiated a three-pronged Crisis 
Response initiative to address challenges surrounding health and nutrition, 
education and livelihoods designed to create longer-term impact beyond 
immediate support. These programmes will where relevant be absorbed under 
the Group’s respective CSR focus areas from 2023/24. 
	y
3,946 children were provided with 175,555 school meals, supporting better 
access to nutrition and sustainable supply systems through school-based 
initiatives while enhancing school attendance and learning engagement.
	y
35,940 relief packs of essential items were distributed to disadvantaged 
families and child development centres.
	y
1,311 farmers and home gardeners were supported with knowledge, skills, inputs 
and equipment to generate better yield and income, promoting food security. 
	y
400 micro-grants were provided to the elderly and children affected by the socio-
economic crisis and 21 ‘Keells’ MSME suppliers were given access to capital.
	y
1,140 children were awarded various scholarships aimed at enhancing skills for 
better access to career opportunities and encouraging disadvantaged youth to 
pursue higher education.
Social Responsibility: 
Livelihood and Community Development*
	y
Over 2,000 farmers supported through the ‘Keells Govidiri’ programme initiated 
to strengthen the capacity of agripreneurs, with a particular focus on youth 
and female farmers by promoting safe and consumer-driven practices that 
ensured consistency in production and availability of agricultural products.
	y
2,794 green leaf suppliers assisted in aligning their operations to the 
requirement of the Rainforest Alliance Certification.
	y
Over 331 persons supported to improve access to knowledge, funding and 
markets for sustainable livelihood opportunities. 
	y
Over 90,000kg of fresh produce were distributed to disadvantaged families.
Education* 
	y
1,142 university students benefited from various programmes aimed at 
enhancing the career-readiness of university graduates.
	y
1,660 school children received school based educational support.
	y
346 children and youth participated in development programmes including 
mental health and well-being.
SDG’s Impacted through Initiatives
1.	 No Poverty
Fostering sustainable livelihoods through relevant skills, 
capacity and infrastructure enhancement towards 
poverty alleviation.
3.	 Good Health and Well-Being
Fostering healthy communities towards enhancing 
well-being and productivity.
4.	 Quality Education
Providing better access to educational opportunities 
towards enhancing employability and entrepreneurship.
5.	
Gender Equality
Working towards gender empowerment through 
skill development and infrastructure enhancement, 
eliminating gender based violence through awareness 
and capacity building.
8. 	 Decent Work and Economic Growth
Developing sustainable livelihoods through relevant 
skills, capacity and infrastructure enhancement towards 
building empowered and sustainable communities.
Entrenching sustainability into supply chains, building 
mutually beneficial relationships and livelihoods 
development.
10. 	Reduce inequality within and among 
countries
Empowering and promoting social, economic and 
political inclusion and ensuring equal opportunity and 
equity.
11. 	Sustainable Cities and Communities
Nurturing the livelihoods and social well-being of local 
communities, promoting Sri Lankan Arts and Culture 
and preserving the cultural heritage.
16. 	Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions
Promoting peace and justice and strengthening 
institutions including youth and women-based 
structures through community and livelihood 
programmes; eliminating violence, especially against 
women and children through capacity building and 
awareness creation at multiple levels including the 
general public.

122 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
Key Highlights of the Year:
Health* 
	y
A special donation of LKR 100 million was made to the Suwa Seriya 
Foundation for use in the operations of the Suwa Seriya Ambulance 
Service towards ensuring its continuity of free-of-charge lifesaving 
emergency medical assistance in Sri Lanka.
	y
655,551 persons benefited through internal and external awareness 
sessions and campaigns on gender based violence and child protection, 
HIV and AIDS, substance abuse prevention, safe and responsible tourism, 
breast cancer awareness, mental well-being programmes (adult-related), 
blood donation drives and vision and health camps.
Arts and Culture 
	y
2,281 artists benefited through various initiatives aimed at enhancing 
their livelihoods, skills and networks while providing a platform to 
showcase their work. 
	y
Grants and in-kind support for five institutions involved in safeguarding 
and promoting visual, performing and literary arts and crafts in Sri Lanka. 
	y
Restoration of three works of renowned artists George Keyt and Senaka 
Senanayake held under JKH’s patronage. 
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL REVIEW
*Excluding beneficiaries under Crisis Response Initiative.
The table above expands on the Group’s key highlights of ‘Supply 
Chain Management’ and ‘Social Responsibility’ focus areas. There were 
no material initiatives undertaken under the ‘Disaster Relief’ focus area 
outside Crisis Response initiatives during the year under review.
Approach
The Group places emphasis on identifying, measuring and managing 
its focus areas under social and relationship capital through policies and 
processes which enable the Group to function responsibly, whilst being 
mindful of all stakeholders and leveraging on opportunities to create a 
positive impact.
Focus Areas
The Group’s relationship with clients, the market and society are 
underpinned by ethics and independence and is pivotal in ensuring 
the sustainability of the business. This interaction takes place directly 
between clients and professionals on the ground, through satisfaction 
surveys and various other channels.
The Group adheres to all legal requirements, both local and international, 
and stringent quality management processes are in place to ensure the 
highest quality in processes, responsible marketing and communications and 
stringent health and safety guidelines for both employees and customers. 
The Group’s affiliation with the certification of ISO 9001, ISO 14001, ISO 22001 
and ISO 45001 demonstrates its commitment in this regard.
Product labelling and responsible communication
Consumer Foods Industry Group
Of the 341 stock keeping units (SKUs) manufactured:
	y
100% carried information on the ingredients used
	y
5% carried information on raw materials sourced
	y
78% carried information on safe use
	y
91% on responsible disposal of products
Retail Industry Group
Of the 421 SKUs sourced by JMSL for private labelling:
	y
57% carried information on the ingredients used
	y
1% carried information on raw materials sourced
	y
46% carried information on safe use
	y
97% on responsible disposal of products
The Group recognises the importance of collaboration and the need to 
create, protect and foster long-term environmental, social, and economic 
value for all stakeholders. The Group’s Supplier Code of Conduct 
mandates compliance with relevant laws and regulations as well as 
adherence to international principles on ethical labour practices, human 
rights, environmental impacts, and other sustainability matters. This 
document is shared along with the contracts to all our suppliers.  
The Group also focuses on encouraging female participation and 
diversity in all elements of the supply chain, by creating awareness. 
During the year, the Group shared the second supplier newsletter on 
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DE&I) practices. Further, the Group also 
works closely with its key suppliers to create awareness and disseminate 
knowledge on sustainability topics and best practices. 
The Group continued its commitment towards creating a sustainable 
value chain by considering social and environmental aspects as a part 
of assessing tenders and online bids for high value items sourced, in 
addition to price and quality. During the year under review, supplier 
forums were carried out for 27 Group sourced suppliers under the 
theme Responsible Consumption and Production (SDG12) to improve 
awareness creation on sustainability related topics whilst supplier 
assessments were also carried out on 63 suppliers. 
Customer Relations 
and Product 
Responsibility
Supply Chain 
Management
Knowledge Sharing and 
Policy Dialogues
Corporate 
Citizenship
Social 
Responsibility
Page 122
Page 122
Page 134
Page 124
Page 125
CUSTOMER RELATIONS AND PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT

123
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
The significant suppliers of industry groups of the Group are identified below. 
Transportation
Outsourced vehicle fleets
Suppliers of goods for 
warehouse storage and 
distributions
Maintenance, support 
services, and outsourced 
employees
Suppliers of capital 
equipment
Consumer Foods
Plastic packaging 
suppliers
Glass bottle suppliers
Dairy suppliers
Poultry suppliers
Sugar suppliers
Retail
Dry food 
product 
suppliers
Frozen and 
chilled product 
suppliers
Fresh meat 
suppliers
Vegetable and 
fruit suppliers
Household item 
suppliers
Third party 
tenants (within 
premises)
Outsourced 
service 
providers
Financial Services
Reinsurance partners
Outsourced service providers
Bancassurance partners
Leisure
Cinnamon 
Hotels & Resorts
Food and beverage and 
amenities suppliers
Travel agents and 
travel websites
Casual workers
Destination 
Management
Hotels and other 
accommodation 
providers
Contracted 
retail stores
Freelance 
national guides
Jeep and boat 
suppliers
Foreign travel 
agents and tour 
operators
Outsourced 
fleet
Other, including 
Information 
Technology 
and Plantation 
Services
Information 
Technology and 
Other
Strategic 
software 
partners
Expert skill/ 
knowledge 
partners
Outsourced 
operational 
functions
Outsourced 
support staff
Outsourced 
service 
providers
Transportation 
providers
Plantation 
Services
Tea smallholder farmers
Tea plantations
Property
Property 
Development
Construction contractors
Architects and interior designers
RHL
Food, beverage and amenities 
suppliers
Travel agents and travel websites
Casual employees
Industry group-wise highlights of supply chain management initiatives  
Whilst there are a multitude of initiatives undertaken at each of the industry groups, the 
material supply chain linked initiatives are highlighted below.   
	y
Consumer Foods
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC purchased a total of 9,583,274 kg of produce from 12,358 
farmers during the year, thereby contributing to their livelihoods.
Product 
Total Annual 
Supply (kg)
Number of 
Farmers
Meat
2,698,815
2,530
Spices
88,515
2,500
Cashew nuts
53,025
1,330
Vanilla
61
2,056
Ginger
20,044
227
Kithul jaggery
32,186
285
Vegetables
155,799
30
Treacle
102,675
200
Fresh milk
6,432,154
3,200
Newsletter on Groups DE&I initiatives for suppliers.

124 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
	y
Retail
JMSL carried out the ‘Keells Govidiri’ programme, with the objective 
of strengthening the capacity of agripreneurs, especially focusing 
on youth and female farmers through safe and consumer driven 
practices in order to ensure consistency in production and 
availability. 
The Farmer Management System was launched in the reporting year 
and will aid the efficient management and tracking of over 2,000 
farmers and their respective farms.
	y
Leisure
Audits were conducted on key suppliers of ‘Cinnamon Hotels & 
Resorts’ and the central purchasing office.
44 suppliers participated in the awareness sessions which were 
carried out covering topics such as quality, environmental practices 
and health and safety.
	y
Other, including Information Technology and Plantation Services 
Aligning operations to the requirement of the Rainforest Alliance 
certification by enhancing and promoting sustainable agriculture of 
2,794 green leaf suppliers.
Commenced the 9th phase of the Tea Smallholders Factories PLC’s 
(TSF) tea replanting project aiding 20 green leaf suppliers by 
supplying 65,000 tea plants over 14.75 acres of land.
‘Keells Govidiri’
1.	 Productivity Enhancement Project 
‘Keells Govidiri’ launched by ‘Keells’ during 2021/22 is a productivity 
enhancement programme promoting smart agri-practices, which 
focuses on production consistency and availability of selected fresh 
produce. The programme was carried out in partnership with the 
Ministry of Agriculture and Smallholder Agribusiness Partnership 
Programme which is funded by the International Fund for Agricultural 
Development (IFAD).
Best practices implemented 
during the year
Impact
Implemented a drip irrigation 
system to maintain plant 
productivity and quality.
60% water saving
Installed insect proof nets to 
protect crops and reduce the 
use of insecticides.
80% cost savings of  
agro-chemicals and 
fungicides
Initiated poly mulching 
processes to conserve water 
and ensure efficient crop 
production.
2.	 Youth Agripreneurs Greenhouse Cultivation Project 
The ‘Youth Agripreneurs Greenhouse Cultivation Project’ is focused 
towards strengthening the capacity of youth agripreneurs.
24 Good 
Agricultural 
Practices (GAP) 
approved 
greenhouses 
completed.
48 farms 
approved. 
294 farms 
processed.
24 youth 
agripreneurs.
210,532kg of 
vegetables 
sourced 
through 
greenhouses.
3.	 ILO – ‘Keells’ productivity enhancement of banana farmers from 
war displaced community from Palali. 
6 training sessions with the participation of 50 Farmers was conducted 
during the reporting period on industry best practices for Banana 
cultivation.  
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL REVIEW
Given the scale of the Group, the Group is fortunate to be exposed to 
a wide array of information within the industries they are operating in 
and on a more holistic level. Given the scale of decisions, a part of the 
repertoire built is placed at the disposal of the Group’s stakeholders in order 
to enhance the debate around the complex issues the Group addresses. 
Continual collaboration with the media, research, studies, debates and 
sponsorship of events provide clarity and guidance about such complex 
issues. During the year under review, the Group continued to deploy such 
strategies to promote knowledge sharing and advocate for best practice.
A notable portion of Group employees continue to be members of 
a number of organisations and associations representing a range 
of industries, fields and society as a whole, where they disseminate 
and gain knowledge by serving on boards, executive committees 
and subject-matter working groups for the benefit of sustainable 
development, both for the organisation and society.
The Group’s role in society is defined by the Group’s services and the 
manner in which the Group engages with its stakeholders. In this light, 
matters such as ethics, integrity, accountability and transparency are vital 
and is responsible for influencing the Group’s strategy.
Refer the Governance section for further details.
KNOWLEDGE SHARING AND POLICY DIALOGUES
CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP
Given the scale of decisions, a part of the 
repertoire built is placed at the disposal of the 
Group’s stakeholders in order to enhance the 
debate around the complex issues the Group 
addresses. Continual collaboration with different 
stakeholder groups provide clarity and guidance 
about such complex issues.

125
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
The Group continued to drive its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) 
vision through its CSR entity, John Keells Foundation and the established 
six focus areas: Education, Health, Livelihood Development, Environment, 
Arts and Culture and Disaster Relief. Initiatives under each focus area 
are planned and reviewed in the context of national priorities and are 
aligned to the Sustainable Development Goals as well as the Principles 
of United Nations Global Compact to ensure a collective and targeted 
focus towards addressing key universal development needs, focusing on 
the three dimensions of sustainable development - economic growth, 
social inclusion and environmental protection.
During the year under review, the Group initiated a multi-pronged 
crisis response initiative to address the widespread socio-economic 
challenges affecting Sri Lanka under three themes: health and 
nutrition, livelihoods and education, in addition to the projects 
executed under the focus areas outlined above. The following projects 
were designed and implemented to provide both immediate relief as 
well as long-term empowerment-based support to affected persons 
under the broad pillars of food security and educational support.  
“…Our children are struggling to come to schools due to 
the fuel crisis. The school meal programme is a relief to the 
parents and a motivation to send students to school…” 
–Teacher, St. Anthony’s Balika Vidyalaya, Colombo 03
Nutrition
Increasing Access to 
Nutrition
Alleviating 
Malnutrition in 
Children
Education
Ensuring Access to 
Education
Livelihoods
Increasing Local 
Food Production 
and Livelihood 
Enhancement
1.	 Provision of school 
meals
2.	 Dry Ration 
Distribution
3.	 Construction of 
school kitchens 
and facilitation 
of school 
gardens
8.	 English Language Scholarships
9.	 Higher Education Scholarships
10.	Digital Learning Initiative
 4.	 Home Gardening 
and Sustainable 
Farming support
5. 	 Model Farms and 
Green Houses
6. 	 Supporting micro, 
small, and medium-
sized enterprises 
(MSMEs)
7. 	 Provision of micro 
grants
These programmes will be absorbed under the respective CSR focus 
areas of education, health and livelihood development in 2023/24.
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
Nutrition
‘Pasal Diriya’
The Group’s school meal programme ‘Pasal Diriya’ was launched in 
October 2022 in partnership with the Ministry of Education and in 
association with the Group’s businesses, CCS, ‘Cinnamon Hotels & 
Resorts’, John Keells Properties and the Transportation industry group , 
to sustain and expand the implementation of the Government’s school 
meal programme. 
The programme is designed to provide nutritious meals on school 
days to children from 11 selected schools in the Western, Southern 
and Eastern Provinces as well as three pre-schools in the North Central 
Province. During the year under review, ten school kitchens were 
constructed and equipped and over 125,977 meals were provided to 
2,951 school children and pre-school children through this programme. 
Launch of ‘Pasal Diriya’ initiative.
In addition, the Supermarket business through its crowdfunding 
initiative ‘Keells Meal Donation’, supported 995 pre-school children in 
26 locations with over 49,578 meals with the aim of providing young 
children between the ages of 2.5 to 5 years with better nutrition to grow 
and thrive and engage in their education.
A pilot school gardening project was undertaken in Colombo 2 to assess 
the viability of creating sustainable systems for schools to cultivate 
selected crops which could be provided as nutritious meals for children. 
A E Gunasinghe school enjoyed its first harvest of vegetables which was 
used as part of a meal served to 126 students.
Dry Ration Distribution
‘Keells’ in collaboration with local authorities, non-governmental 
organisations, and other stakeholders sponsored 25,340 relief packs of 
essential items. These were distributed to disadvantaged families in 120 
locations across the country. 
Union Assurance PLC partnered with the Department of Probation and 
Child Care Services and Colombo Expats Cultural Association to provide 
financial support to drive the campaign ‘Feed a Child, Build a Future’ 
which aims to provide basic necessities to 10,600 children living in 379 
child development centres across Sri Lanka for a period of 100 days.
Crisis Response Initiative 

126 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
Livelihoods
Home Gardening and Sustainable Farming Support 
JKF launched the Home Gardening and Sustainable Farming support 
initiative to assist identified stakeholders within the Group’s business 
locations. 
1,284 households in the vicinity of ‘Elephant House’ factories, ‘Cinnamon 
Hotels & Resorts’ and Victoria Golf and Country Resort were selected and 
provided agro packs which included various types of vegetable seeds/
saplings, agro bags and fertiliser to initiate or supplement home gardens, 
resulting in a cumulative harvest of 83,102 kg of vegetables benefiting 
4,706 persons. The produce was used for household consumption while 
excess harvest was sold to ‘Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts’ and ‘Keells’ outlets 
in the reporting year. 
The Sustainable Farming programme was initiated to facilitate the 
immediate resumption of production activities supporting the 
maintenance of livelihoods of selected farming communities while 
enhancing food and nutrition security in the country. Selected farmers 
were provided with farming inputs and equipment, knowledge, and 
technical support on modern agricultural practices to catalyse efficient 
and productive farming resulting in the resumption of local food 
production and livelihoods. 28 farmlands amounting to 19 acres around 
‘Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts’ in Beruwala, Habarana, Kandy, Trincomalee 
and Weerawila were identified and provided with insect-proof nets, 
poly mulch, drip irrigation or sprinklers and water pumps. 27 farmlands 
continued to be in operation at the end of the reporting period directly 
benefiting 90 persons, with 12 farmlands recording a total of 15,171 kg 
of produce sold to economic centres, ‘Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts’ and 
‘Keells’ outlets.
During the reporting year, JKF also initiated discussions with the 
Department of Prisons (DoP) on a pilot collaboration for a facilitated 
farming programme in a selected prison location aimed at supporting 
domestic consumption and benefiting from a commercial marketing 
arrangement with ‘Keells’ while providing training and income 
generation for inmates engaged in the programme. Kandurugas Ara 
open prison was identified as a suitable location and the parties were in 
discussion on details at the end of the reporting period.
Beneficiaries of a farming project in Habarana.
Farmer in Trincomalee pictured with a chef from ‘Trinco Blu by Cinnamon’.
Model Farms and Green Houses
Model farms were set up at Ranala and Pannala by Ceylon Cold Stores 
PLC and Keells Food Products PLC, respectively, while greenhouses 
were established at ‘Cinnamon Bentota Beach’ and ‘Cinnamon Lodge 
Habarana’ to encourage staff and communities to be self-reliant whilst 
providing a learning space on best practices pertaining to farming. 
During the year under review, 2,000 kg of manioc was cultivated at the 
model farm in Ranala and 405 kgs of vegetables and fruits at the model 
farm in Pannala and were marketed at a concessionary rate among the 
employees through the welfare shop. Vegetables grown at Pannala were 
utilised by Keells Food Products PLC for its production while the excess 
was sold at a concessionary rate to staff. 
Supporting Micro, Small, and Medium-Sized Enterprises (MSMEs)
‘Keells’ partnered with the United States Agency for International 
Development (USAID) to support MSMEs in the food sector to access 
capital. This initiative is aimed at empowering and uplifting standards 
of existing MSMEs that engage with ‘Keells’ in order to increase their 
competitiveness and resilience through key service areas such as quality 
certifications, digital marketing, enterprise resource planning (ERP) and 
access to finance. 37 suppliers were onboarded for each of the four service 
areas and are currently undergoing the relevant training process with a 
total of USD 1.4 million lent to 21 ‘Keells’ MSMEs suppliers. 
Provision of Micro Grants
Keells provided microgrants to 400 beneficiaries in over seven locations. 
The beneficiaries of these microgrants are the elderly and children in 
child development centres.
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL REVIEW
The Sustainable Farming programme was 
initiated to facilitate the immediate resumption 
of production activities supporting the 
maintenance of livelihoods of selected farming 
communities while enhancing food and 
nutrition security in the country.

127
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
Education
English Language Scholarship Programme (ELSP)
During the reporting year, JKF continued its flagship education project 
‘English for Teens’ for the 19th successive year. The project is designed to 
progressively enhance English language and communication skills of 
school children and youth from socially and economically disadvantaged 
backgrounds, towards improving their opportunities for higher learning 
and sustainable employment. 706 students from 20 locations were offered 
scholarships under tier one and 154 students were offered scholarships 
under tier two during the year under review. Classes were held both 
virtually and in person amidst many challenges including power outages 
and transport related issues arising due to the country’s macroeconomic 
crisis and were ongoing at the end of the reporting period.
Meanwhile, English Days were organised virtually at a provincial level 
to showcase the talents and learnings of the students in June 2022. The 
four separate events organised in the Western, Southern, Northern and 
Central Provinces drew participation of 456 students including 60 group 
and 81 individual performances.
Furthermore, awareness sessions on Child Protection addressing 
teenage problems such as love and attraction, anger management, self-
worth, cyber safety and screen addiction were conducted benefiting 298 
students during the reporting year.
Higher Education Scholarship
Through the Higher Education Scholarship Scheme, deserving youth 
from underprivileged communities were identified and awarded 
scholarships to encourage students to pursue Advanced Level and 
University education. This programme, which was launched in 2015, was 
expanded to support 50 additional scholarships during the year under 
review as part of the Crisis Response Initiative. A total of 51 Advanced 
Level students and 49 University undergraduates were provided 
scholarships during the year in review.
John Keells ‘Praja Shakthi’ Digital Learning Initiative – Phase 2
This initiative was launched in 2021/22 in partnership with Deutsche 
Bank, Dialog Axiata PLC and John Keells Office Automation initially 
to support selected ordinary and advanced level students facing 
disruptions to their studies due to the Covid-19 pandemic. This 
was extended during the reporting year to support students facing 
challenges due to the macroeconomic crisis. A total of 180 students 
in 11 schools in Colombo 2, Ja-Ela and Ranala were provided digital 
devices and data packages to continue their studies. Devices in usable 
condition from phase one were re-pooled among identified students 
and supplemented with 50 new devices. 
JKF also introduced several safeguards with the support of its service 
provider, Dialog Axiata PLC. Both parties continued to closely monitor the 
online activities of students. Bundled learning such as child protection 
awareness including adolescence-related issues such as love and 
attraction, anger management, cyber safety and screen addiction were 
also conducted for the benefit of 1,966 students during the reporting year.
Launch of phase 2 of the John Keells ‘Praja Shakthi’ Digital Learning Initiative.
Scholarship beneficiaries at an ELSP inauguration ceremony held in Colombo 2.
Livelihood Development
The Group continued to identify and empower communities around 
selected business locations for upskilling and training on livelihoods, 
financial literacy awareness and enhanced market opportunities. 
Community interventions were assessed and customised to the needs of 
each location and planned and implemented in collaboration with the 
related Group businesses.
During the year under review:  
	y
13 batik artisans in Hikkaduwa continued to be supported by JKF 
and ‘Hikka Tranz by Cinnamon’ for the 3rd successive year, enhancing 
income generation to service the needs of the women artisans and 
their families. 
	y
12 women from the ‘Batewela Ranliya Women’s Society of Ranala’ 
engaged in paper based product development continued to be 
supported by JKF for the 2nd successive year with orders generated 
within the Group for paper envelopes. 
	y
As a means of supporting the livelihoods of local communities, 
‘Cinnamon Dhonveli Maldives’ organised excursion tours for guests 
by employing locals.
	y
Coconut leaves were provided to women in Hangnaamedhoo to 
construct cadjans at ‘Ellaidhoo Maldives by Cinnamon’. Through this 
project women have been able to earn over USD 10,000 during the 
reporting period. 

128 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
	y
Infomate (Private) Limited together with JKF continued their 
long-term partnership with FARO in supporting the rural BPOs in 
Mahavilachchiya, Seenigama and Jaffna which recorded a total of 
37 associates (predominantly young women) engaged in sustained 
work outsourced by Infomate, carried out within their own localities. 
Ontime Private Limited in Mahavilachchiya completed 15 years and 
Jaffna BPO Technology approached 10 years. The world class KPIs that 
are continued to be achieved by the BPOs amidst many challenges 
in the country are noteworthy. Moreover, several associates of 
Seenigama BPO Technologies found career progression opportunities 
within the Leisure and Retail sector.
	y
Keells conceptualised ‘perfectly imperfect vegetables’ which is used 
to market imperfect vegetables and decrease food waste. This 
concept guarantees that the majority of the crop is used to support 
farmers while passing on the price benefit to consumers. Under this 
initiative, 191,177 kg of vegetables were sold in 75 stores.
	y
48 small scale suppliers, vendors and business owners were 
supported under the ‘Praja Diriya’ initiative. These vendors were 
provided a space at car parks to market their wares. 
	y
In ‘Cinnamon Hakuraa Huraa Maldives’, local culture and livelihoods 
were promoted by purchasing handmade palm garlands, hand 
crafted items for celebrations and bed decorations from the locals. 
Education
Total Immersion in English 
Since 2006, Total Immersion in English is a customised programme 
organised under a long-term industry based initiative by JKF and the 
Transportation industry group, in collaboration with the Engineering 
Faculty of the University of Moratuwa. During the year, 97 first year 
undergraduates reading for a degree in transport management and 
logistic engineering (BSc (T&LM) Hons.) successfully completed the 
programme. This programme also involves the mentoring of students 
by senior professionals in the transportation and logistics field as well as 
facilitation of potential internships and recruitment.  
The programme is designed to develop the knowledge, skills and 
attitudes necessary to equip undergraduates to face current challenges 
in fields such as logistics and supply chain management and public 
transport. This was conducted to enhance English skills, creativity and 
confidence levels of the participants.  
Skills for University Undergraduates
JKF conducted two series of webinars providing practical learning on 
soft skills towards improving the employability of university graduates. 
738 students from the University of Ruhuna, and the Faculty of Law of 
the University of Colombo participated.
TSF conducted six lectures on industrial awareness at the Neluwa tea 
factory for 48 undergraduates pursuing a degree in management and 
finance at the University of Moratuwa.
The Destination Management sector organised an exposure visit and an 
induction programme on the operations of destination management 
companies for 100 undergraduates pursuing hospitality and tourism 
management degree programmes at the University of Sabaragamuwa.
The ‘Keells’ Retail Skills Centre
The ‘Keells’ Retail Skill Centre at the National Apprentice and Industrial 
Training Authority (NAITA) premises provided NAITA trainees with real-
life retail experience, while also providing classroom facilities and access 
to ‘Keells’ Retail Academy Online. 
During the year under review, 59 undergraduates in six batches were 
trained for 492 hours through the ‘Keells’ Retail Skills Centre. Through 
this initiative, NAITA trainees received comprehensive training over a 
month and were prepared for job placements. Furthermore, over 100 
undergraduates of the University of Kelaniya were trained to enhance 
their skills through real-life experience and insights from the retail 
industry. ‘Keells’ further collaborated as a strategic partner contributing 
to the marketing and digital marketing degrees through lectures, 
knowledge sharing sessions, internships and job placements.
Youth and Child Development including Mental Health and Well-
being
	y
JKF together with ChildFund Sri Lanka and the University of Visual and 
Performing Arts, Colombo, conducted a series of 48 workshops on 
art, theatre, music and dancing under the John Keells ‘Praja Shakthi’ 
initiative. The series of workshops was initiated in December 2022 for 
children in Colombo 2, to address the psycho-social effects on youth 
resulting from intermittent school closures, prolonged online learning 
and limited social engagements during and in the aftermath of the 
pandemic. Following the successful completion of the workshops, a 
visual and performing art exhibition titled ‘Colouring Their Dreams’ 
was held to showcase the participants’ learning and skills. 
A performance from the ‘Colouring Their Dreams’ exhibition.
Beneficiaries of the aesthetic workshops.
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL REVIEW

129
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
	y
ChildFund Sri Lanka in collaboration with JKF and the Colombo 
Municipal Council, launched the Child Learning Centre at the De Mel 
Park Community Centre to facilitate English and IT learning as well 
as raise awareness on child protection and well-being. The learning 
centre was vested to the public in December 2022. 
Opening of the Child Learning Centre at the De Mel Park Community Centre.
	y
A mental well-being and motivational programme was organised 
under the John Keells ‘Praja Shakthi’ Initiative in Ja-Ela which was 
intended on motivating underperforming ordinary level students. 
276 students, 142 parents and 312 teachers from 24 schools under 
the Negombo Zonal education office participated in this programme.
Beneficiaries of the mental well-being and motivational programme.
Other School Based Support
	y
Union Assurance PLC sponsored sports equipment for the 
Handaganawa Maha Vidyalaya in Mahiyanganaya in support of one 
teacher’s remarkable efforts to showcase his students’ tremendous 
potential in rugby.
	y
‘Keells’ supported 225 students in Batticaloa, Colombo, Ja-Ela, 
Karapitiya, and Seeduwa, by providing a selection of books and 
stationery items to commence a new school year.
	y
TSF distributed stationery to 850 students of the Thawalama Vidyaraja 
National School, Thawalama Primary School and Children’s Clubs in 
commemoration of World Children’s Day.
	y
TSF conducted a grade five scholarship examination preparation 
seminar for 585 students of the Thawalama Vidyaraja National School.
	y
TSF conducted an awareness programme on tea manufacturing to 
250 students of the Medagama School.
	y
‘Cinnamon Bentota Beach’ continued to support victims of the 2004 
Tsunami disaster through the ‘Sip Uwasara’ programme in the Bentota 
region. Deserving students were provided books and educational 
material encouraging students to continue their education
Health
Project WAVE (Working Against Violence through Education)
	y
JKF undertook a multi-pronged campaign to mark the International 
Day for the Elimination of Violence Against Women partnering with 
the Bar Association of Sri Lanka and the Capital Maharaja Group. This 
comprised an interactive forum of lawyers, judges and police officers 
from the Women and Children’s Bureau and Community Police in 
Kurunegela on the topic of ‘Violence Against Women and Children – 
Addressing Gaps and Enhancing Access to Justice’ which benefited 
124 persons. Further, a cross-sectoral panel discussion was televised 
on the ‘Satana’ programme on TV1 and a two-week social media 
awareness campaign was executed with an estimated reach of over 
622,721 persons. 
	y
A three-day training programme on prevention of gender-based 
violence and child protection was organised by JKF in collaboration 
with the Women and Children Bureau (WCB) of Sri Lanka Police for the 
benefit of 39 police personnel representing community police and WCB 
officers of the Polonnaruwa division. This programme was designed 
to empower police officers to respond effectively and appropriately 
to incidents of gender-based violence (GBV) and child abuse and also 
facilitate community awareness on the subject.
	y
JKF together with ‘Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts’ launched a three-year 
strategic action plan on child protection with the aim of educating 
staff on identifying incidents of child abuse, reporting such incidents 
and training child protection trainers to carry the message to 
communities as a means of furthering objectives under ‘Project WAVE’ 
and Group policies.
	y
A week-long social media awareness campaign was initiated 
targeting Children’s Day with a reach of 8,419 persons.
	y
General staff awareness sessions were conducted for a total of 1,884 
Group personnel via an e-learning platform, internal awareness 
programmes and Group induction programmes on child protection, 
preventing gender-based violence and sexual harassment at the 
workplace.
‘Project WAVE’ is a flagship initiative of JKF launched in 2014 to 
combat gender-based violence and child abuse primarily through 
education and awareness creation. Staff awareness is integrated 
as part of induction and ongoing training for employees of the 
John Keells Group in addition to training of trainers and refresher 
programmes conducted periodically for Group staff who volunteer 
as master trainers on the subject. Staff also have access to an 
interactive e-learning platform and are encouraged to refresh their 
knowledge. ‘Project WAVE’ further encompasses various targeted 
communities through sensitisation and training programmes 
conducted for the benefit of identified communities under John 
Keells ‘Praja Shakthi’ initiative, such as students, teachers and law 
enforcement authorities including police officers, lawyers and 
judges as well as the general public.

130 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
Lawyers and judges participating at the interactive forum in Kurunegala on ‘Violence 
Against Women and Children’.
Police officers participating at the interactive forum in Kurunegala on ‘Violence Against 
Women and Children’.
Substance Abuse Prevention Project
JKF launched the Substance Abuse Prevention Project in 2020 to 
combat the growing use of drugs and illegal substances prevalent in 
the country, affecting the health and well-being of children, youth and 
society as a whole. The primary goal of the programme is to educate 
teachers, guardians and relevant Government officers that through 
early intervention in a child’s life, substance abuse and a range of other 
related behavioural problems can be prevented by means of positive 
brain development and an enabling environment. Under the project, 
sensitisation and training programmes are conducted for school 
teachers, parents and adolescent school children in collaboration 
with the National Dangerous Drugs Control Board and for pre-school 
teachers, parents and early childhood development officers in 
partnership with Humedica Lanka.
	y
During the year under review, JKF conducted substance abuse 
prevention awareness programmes among the early childhood 
development sector in collaboration with the Ja-Ela divisional 
secretariat, Charity Commissioner of Colombo, Humedica Lanka, 
CCS and KFP. Moreover, teachers and counsellors belonging to 
the Ambalangoda Zonal Education Office participated in a three-
day teacher training programme on Substance Abuse Prevention 
conducted in partnership with the National Dangerous Drugs Control 
Board and Southern Provincial Education Department.
	y
In commemoration of the International Day Against Drug Abuse 
and Illicit Trafficking, JKF also undertook a week-long social media 
campaign to raise awareness among the public on ways to eradicate 
drug abuse, with an estimated reach of 12,447.
An awareness programme on Substance Abuse Prevention conducted for pre-school 
children’s parents in Ja-Ela.
John Keells HIV and AIDS Awareness Campaign
John Keells HIV and AIDS Awareness Campaign was launched in 2005 
with a focus on prevention through education and access to correct 
information among targeted groups. During the year under review, 
World AIDS Day was commemorated with staff across the Group 
donning a red ribbon to show solidarity with persons living with HIV and 
AIDS. Additionally, a total of 61 staff from ‘Cinnamon Lodge Habarana’, 
‘Habarana Village by Cinnamon’ and LogiPark International Limited in 
Kerawalapitiya participated in two awareness programmes conducted in 
commemoration of the World AIDS Day.
Breast Cancer Awareness
‘Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts’ raised awareness on breast cancer among 
300 staff at ‘Cinnamon’ with the aim of creating a difference in the fight 
against cancer. 	
 	
Assistance to Improve Mental Health and Well-being of Adults
In a bid to improve the mental health and well-being of the residents of the 
Horivila Ayurvedic Hospital and Sandagirigama Elders’ home in Yala as well 
as to support the development of a conducive atmosphere for all in-house 
and walk-in patients of the hospital, ‘Cinnamon Wild Yala’ conducted a 
workshop which involved cleaning and colour-washing the premises.
The Destination Management sector organised a mental detox 
workshop with Kathleen Landbeck for its staff.
Blood Donation Drive
‘Ellaidhoo Maldives by Cinnamon’ organised a blood donation camp 
within the hotel premises in collaboration with the Maldivian Blood 
Services with the participation of 75 donors.
TSF organised two blood donation camps with the participation of 450 
donors.
Vision and Health Camps
TSF organised a free vision screening programme for 60 members of the 
bought leaf suppliers and community at the Neluwa tea factory and also 
conducted a health camp and crop clinic for 410 bought leaf suppliers 
and the community at the Halwitigala tea factory.
Safe and Responsible Tourism 
The Destination Management sector organised a workshop and 
training programmes on safe and responsible tourism covering 
effective identification, referral and protection of victims of trafficking, 
for 31 chauffeur guides and staff. Furthermore, training on first aid was 
conducted for 35 chauffeur guides.
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL REVIEW

131
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
Suwa Seriya Ambulance Service
JKH released a donation of LKR 100 million to the Suwa Seriya 
Foundation under agreement for use in the operations of the Suwa 
Seriya Ambulance Service. The contribution aims to support the 
ambulance service, which has been facing financial constraints, and 
will enable the service to continue providing the general public free-
of-charge lifesaving emergency medical assistance in Sri Lanka. 
The donation was undertaken under the Health focus area of CSR 
to support and empower the communities in which we operate 
and as a means of empowering the Suwa Seriya Ambulance Service 
and the outstanding work that is done every day by these first 
responders to save lives across Sri Lanka.
Arts and Culture
Kala Pola (Art Fair)
	y
The 30th year of Kala Pola, Sri Lanka’s premier open air art fair, was held 
in February 2023. A long-term collaboration between the George Keyt 
Foundation and the Group, this was the first Kala Pola street fair held 
since the onset of the pandemic. The event drew an encouraging 
response attracting 312 adult artists, 358 child artists and over 33,000 
visitors, generating an estimated Rs.35 million in sales. 
	y
In addition to its focus on visual art, Kala Pola also showcased 
a kaleidoscope of Sri Lankan performing arts including dances, 
drummers and folk singing in a carnival-like atmosphere. 
	y
CCS organised the Children’s Art Corner which attracted 110 budding 
art enthusiasts who enjoyed experimenting with paints and clay 
under the guidance of teachers of the Cora Abraham Art School. 
	y
As a 30th year commemoration, Kala Pola 2023 featured a ‘top five 
artists award’ adjudged by a panel of art experts.
	y
The event was supported by 150 Group volunteers.
Digital Art Gallery
JKF continued to host and upgrade the Sri Lankan Art Gallery website 
(www.srilankanartgallery.com), which serves as an online platform 
available free of charge for Sri Lankan visual artists to showcase their 
work whilst sustaining and enhancing the interest of art patrons. As at 
the end of the reporting period, 1,415 artists were registered with the 
Sri Lankan Art Gallery displaying a total of 11,702 works of art. 29,587 
persons visited the site during the period.
Museum of Modern and Contemporary Art (MMCA)
JKF is a benefactor of the Museum of Modern and Contemporary Art 
(MMCA) which is a public museum established in 2019 dedicated to the 
display, research, collection, and conservation of Sri Lankan modern and 
contemporary art. In the year under review, MMCA undertook the following:
	y
A second exhibition titled ‘Encounters’ with three successive rotations 
attracting 20,866 visitors. A cumulative total of 1,869 visitors joined 
101 free public programmes which included 15 gallery talks, 19 
workshops, 31 curators’ tours and 30 special events. Further, 656 
visitors joined 28 curators’ tours conducted as part of the MMCA Sri 
Lanka’s outreach programmes.
	y
Conducted the first museum intensive programme involving 
18 organisations from across the island in collaboration with 
the Reinwardt Academy and the Cultural Heritage Agency in 
the Netherlands. This programme aimed to build capacity of 
professionals within the Sri Lankan cultural sector.
	y
‘MMCA Afterschool’ was launched with the aim of providing 
stimulating and collaborative learning experiences for school 
children between the ages 6-10.
Gratiaen Trust
JKF continued its primary sponsorship of the Gratiaen Trust aimed at 
recognising, promoting and nurturing Sri Lankan authors. Key activities 
during the year under review included:
	y
The 29th annual Gratiaen prize and the H.A.I. Goonetileke prize for 
literary translation recording 79 entries for the Gratiaen prize and 10 
entries for the H.A.I. Goonetileke prize. 
	y
Two workshops conducted by the acclaimed actress, Ms. Fiona Shaw.
	y
An outreach programme on Children’s Day incorporating an 
interactive workshop on creative storytelling, targeting young writers 
and readers of literature, which was held in Matara.
	y
As part of its 30th year commemorative activities, a day of creative 
literature arts was organised in Jaffna. 
	y
The Gratiaen Trust engaged with 164 Sri Lankan authors, writers and 
students through its activities in the reporting period.
Restoration of the George Keyt Art Collection
During the year under review, JKF initiated the restoration of two 
paintings of the George Keyt Collection and one painting of Senaka 
Senanayake under JKH’s patronage as a means of conserving the legacy 
of Sri Lankan art.
Aluwihare Heritage Centre (AHC)
JKF continued its sponsorship of AHC’s programmes during the 
reporting year, including funding support for a series of exhibitions 
celebrating the birth centenary of Ena De Silva - a renowned Sri Lankan 
artist credited with re-establishing the country’s batik industry. 
JKF also continued to fund and support AHC’s process of recording and 
archiving over 4,000 tracings of batik samples of the late Ena De Silva 
through the sponsorship of archiving cabinets. 
Community Service Initiatives
Maintenance of Kompanna Vidiya Railway Station
JKF renewed its 20-year public-private partnership with Sri Lanka 
Railways for refurbishing and maintaining the historic Kompanna 
Vidiya (Slave Island) Railway Station for the benefit of the large number 
of commuters who travel to and from the city. 550,676 commuters 
accessed the railway station in the reporting period.
Community Kitchen and Food Redistribution Initiatives
‘Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts’ facilitated the community kitchen at the 
Gangaramaya Temple, ongoing since December 2022. Over 700 daily 
meals are provided to deserving people through this initiative.
Keells continued its food redistribution initiative through which 90,000 
kg of fresh produce were distributed among over 5000 deserving 
beneficiaries monthly through 64 stores. 
Estate Community initiatives
TSF provided assistance for road renovations in Kurupanawa and 
Hiniduma benefiting 2,750 residents. Furthermore, technical and 
material assistance was provided for the renovation of a bridge on 
Halwitigala road for the benefit of 850 residents of the area. 
TSF also contributed towards festivals and events held in rural areas 
benefiting 2,000 persons

132 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL REVIEW
The Group’s Intellectual Capital is a source of competitive advantage and a differentiator in a constantly evolving business landscape. It is pivotal to 
sustainable value creation across the Group and is a key contributor to the Group’s earning potential, productivity, and long-term sustainability. The 
Group strives to continuously innovate and adapt to the dynamic digital era through advanced technology and data analytics, leveraging on the skills 
and knowledge of its employees. 
Focus areas and priority SDGs under Intellectual Capital
Key Highlights of the Year:
	y
OCTAVE continued its advanced analytics transformation journey in 
collaboration with a global consulting firm. Many of the use cases 
that were developed and pending pilot and roll-out were executed 
successfully.
	y
Approval was granted by the National Intellectual Property Office 
(NIPO) in select jurisdictions for the patent filed in relation to the 
novel energy storage material which was developed in 2016/17. 
	y
JKR filed trademark applications at the NIPO in Sri Lanka, to 
register the SilmeticTM and GermslayTM trademarks, which cover 
technologies surrounding cosmetic and polymer applications, 
respectively.  
	y
JKR together with Keells Food Products PLC entered into a 
technology sharing agreement to scale-up JKR’s plant-based meat 
analogue technology.
	y
The pre-accelerator programme ‘JKX 4.0’ was concluded with six 
start-ups chosen for seed funding.
Approach 
The Group has identified the following focus areas as material in 
developing the Intellectual Capital base of the Group.
Focus Areas
Brand  
Stewardship
Research and 
Development
Page 134
Page 133
The business climate is characterised by fast-growing disruptive 
technology and radically changing consumer expectations. Against 
this backdrop, the Group has placed emphasis on creating a platform 
to facilitate its digital transformation drive, centred around the 
theme ‘Disruption and Innovation’ to seize and leverage on potential 
opportunities offered through disruptive technology and research 
and development. The Group’s digital transformation drive takes 
into consideration a holistic approach and entail investments in 
infrastructure, instilling a culture of change acceptance and training of 
staff, among others. The Group acknowledges that disruptive technology 
is not simply a driver of growth and opportunity, but an important 
source towards gaining a competitive advantage. The Group is mindful 
of navigating the inherent uncertainty and challenges presented by 
disruptive technologies by taking proactive measures prior to the 
adoption of such technology. The Group’s Advance Analytics journey 
and John Keells X (JKX) are a testament to the Group’s commitment to its 
digital transformation drive.
JKX’s portfolio of start-ups remained resilient during the year under 
review despite the challenging business environment, with some 
demonstrating encouraging performance. Select start-ups also made 
headway on follow-on investment opportunities.
DIGITISATION, DISRUPTION AND OPEN INNOVATION
SDG’s Impacted through Initiatives
7.	 Affordable and Clean Energy
Develop innovative and efficient solutions surrounding modern 
energy services.
8.	 Decent Work and Economic Growth
Continue to collaborate with and support the start-up 
ecosystem of Sri Lanka by creating a unique platform for 
disruptive and innovative technology-based solutions.
Facilitate a digital transformation drive, through advanced 
analytics solutions with the aim of enabling data-driven 
decision-making in businesses.
9.	 Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure
Continue to grow the Intellectual Capital base by innovating, 
relying on new technology and leveraging on the skills and 
knowledge of employees.
17.	Partnerships for the Goals
Explore opportunities both locally and globally to 
commercialise existing technology and continue to develop 
potential solutions to dynamic business needs which could lead 
to contemporary business models.
Digitisation, 
Disruption and Open 
Innovation
Page 132

133
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
John Keells Research (JKR), the research and development arm of the 
Group, is engaged in discovering new, innovative and efficient solutions 
for dynamic business needs, as well as potential solutions which could 
lead to novel products and processes and enhance the Intellectual 
Capital base of the Group. 
Key projects undertaken by JKR during the year under review:
	y
The patent for JKR’s novel energy storage material, which was 
developed in 2016/17, was granted in the jurisdictions of Taiwan, 
China, Japan, and South Korea. The patent applications filed in other 
jurisdictions are currently in the final stages of evaluation. This was a 
collaboration between the National Metallurgical Lab of the Council 
for Scientific and Industrial Research India, (CSIR-NML) and JKR.  
	y
During the year under review, JKR filed trademark applications at the 
National Intellectual Property Office (NIPO) in Sri Lanka, to register 
the SilmeticTM and GermslayTM trademarks, which cover technologies 
surrounding cosmetic and polymer applications, respectively.  
	y
JKR and Keells Food Products PLC entered into a technology sharing 
agreement to scale-up a plant-based meat analogue technology 
developed by JKR.
	y
Further to entering into JKR’s first technology license agreement in 
2021/22, JKR’s proprietary SilmeticTM technology was used in a range of 
antibacterial skin care products by a cosmetic products manufacturing 
partner. The ‘DermaPRO’ triple laser night cream, day cream and serum 
products were launched to the market during the year. 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
JKX, the Group’s start-up accelerator and open innovation programme, 
provides a unique platform to nurture disruptive and innovative 
technology-based businesses and solutions emerging from the start-
up ecosystem of Sri Lanka. JKX provides support in the form of seed 
funding, mentoring, training, access to Group networks and support 
services, and other resources.
With the launch of ‘JKX 4.0’, the fourth standard accelerator programme 
in 2021/22, the pre-accelerator programme of ‘JKX 4.0’ was conducted 
from April – September 2022, which included workshops and 
mentorships to develop skills and competencies of the selected start-
ups, amongst others. The programme concluded with a demo day held 
in September 2022, to assess the potential of the 12 selected start-ups, 
of which six were chosen for seed funding.
Advanced Analytics Transformation Journey
OCTAVE, the Data and Advanced Analytics Centre of Excellence 
of the Group, continued to grow in capability and team strength, 
functioning as a pure play advanced analytics practice equipped to 
deliver end-to-end advanced analytics solutions. 
The transformation journey continues to successfully address key 
business challenges through the deployment of advanced analytics 
solutions, whilst driving the adoption of data-driven decision-making 
in day-to-day operations of businesses served by OCTAVE. 
	y
As noted in the 2021/22 JKH Annual Report, work on a series 
of advanced analytics use cases in the Retail, Consumer Foods, 
Financial Services and Leisure industry groups yielded promising 
results with pilot projects delivering evidence of significant value 
that can be unlocked from translating advanced analytics insights 
into front line business interventions. Accordingly, tested use 
cases continued to be rolled out at scale.    
	y
The ongoing assessment of the impact to businesses of these 
advanced analytics solutions, post roll-out and complete business 
wide adoption has provided strong evidence that the anticipated 
benefits that were evident through initial pilot projects can 
be sustained at scale, with iterations to adapt to a changing 
operating environment as and when required.
	y
The domestic macroeconomic challenges necessitated a 
continued review of the timing, piloting and rolling out of certain 
use cases. However, with the operating environment exhibiting 
a certain degree of stability in the second half of the year under 
review, many of the use cases that were developed and pending 
pilot, were rolled-out successfully, particularly in the Supermarket 
and the Beverages businesses.
	y
The use cases rolled out in the Supermarket business made positive 
contributions across core aspects of the business value chain. 
This included improving the efficacy of pricing and promotion, 
marketing, store operations and supply chain interventions at 
the business. The use cases further aided business objectives of 
driving healthy and sustainable margins while retaining sound 
value for money for customers, optimising inventory holdings 
and improving availability of stock keeping units (SKUs) at 
outlets, personalising marketing communications and improving 
the efficiency of outlet replenishment and rostering in outlet 
operations. Other use cases being rolled out in the ensuing period 
are aimed at optimising the product mix at outlets.
	y
The use cases in the Beverages business have contributed 
towards optimising promotional spend across modern trade 
and general trade segments and augments the efficiency of the 
distribution network of the business across several levers. Other 
advanced analytics use cases being rolled out in the ensuing 
period will also attempt to optimise production planning.
	y
Several use cases were also piloted aimed at developing a better 
360 degree understanding of customers within the Group and 
how they interact with the different consumer brands across 
the Group portfolio. These yielded promising results and further 
interventions in this regard are planned in the ensuing period.
	y
During the year under review, OCTAVE embarked on creating 
new road maps for potential use cases across several verticals 
of the Group while data governance practices were further 
strengthened with the adoption of a data governance tool that 
was deployed to serve core verticals. 
	y
The OCTAVE Advanced Analytics Academy, which offers in-class 
room training, online courses and curated on-the-job learning 
for each cohort of roles linked to the advanced analytics 
transformation programme, has successfully trained over 290 
team members across the Group. The team continued to operate 
with increasing independence as per the design and plan of the 
transformation programme that was initiated in collaboration 
with a global consulting firm in mid-2019. Independent delivery 
of these advanced analytics use cases has further institutionalised 
capability within the Group to sustain a strong advanced analytics 
practice, which was augmented further with the onboarding of 
additional senior advanced analytics professionals.

134 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL REVIEW
Transportation
Transportation
Ports and Shipping
Consumer Foods
Beverages
Frozen Confectionery
Convenience Foods
Retail
Supermarkets
Office Automation
Leisure
Cinnamon Hotels & 
Resorts
Destination 
Management
Hotel Management
Property
Property Development
Property Management
Financial Services
Insurance
Banking
Stock Broking
Other, including 
Information technology 
and Plantation Services
Information Technology
Plantation Services
Other
Given evolving business trends and customer preferences, the Group’s 
brand strategy aims at remaining relevant, whilst resonating core values 
of the Group. To this end, the Group engaged in the following initiatives 
during the year under review:
	y
The ONE JKH brand and initiative thereunder represents the Group’s 
commitment to Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DE&I) and primarily 
emphasises on three focus areas: increasing female participation in 
our workforce towards achieving gender parity, increasing career 
opportunities for persons with disabilities and ensuring inclusivity of 
the LGBTIQ+ community.
‘ONE JKH’ represents our Group’s approach towards 
valuing diversity in our workforce and that Life at JKH is 
inclusive. Irrespective of our race, religion, gender identity, 
sexual orientation, age and ability, at JKH, we are ONE
Gender Parity | Persons With Disabilities | LGBTIQ+
	y
‘Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts’ renewed its strategic direction, 
‘Cinnamantra’, where a new purpose with seven associated core 
values; greatness, compassion, agility, well-being, inclusivity, trust, 
and curiosity, were rolled out during the year under review.
	y
The logo design of the Victoria Golf Resort was rebranded to 
represent the terrain of the course, surrounding scenery and the 
passion for golf that drives the brand. The logo design incorporates 
the V of Victoria as an integral part of the design, which creates the 
impression of two mountains intersecting to reflect the topography 
of the golf course, the three shades of green to represent the lush 
greenery of the golf course and the flagstick to highlight the focus on 
golf as the primary offering.
	y
Mack International Freight launched a new logo showcasing the 
business’s continuous improvement and potential going forward in 
the freight forwarding industry of Sri Lanka.
	y
Subsequent to the refurbishment of the ‘Crescat Boulevard’, the mall 
was positioned as a lifestyle destination, with the revised tagline 
reading as ‘The Heart of Convenience’.
Some of the key accolades received by John Keells Holdings PLC 
during the year under review, include:
	y
Ranked first as the ‘Most Respected Entity’ in Sri Lanka for the 17th 
year at the 18th annual edition of LMD’s Most Respected Entities 
rankings. The rankings are based on the survey commissioned and 
conceptualised by LMD, and conducted by NielsenIQ.
	y
JKH was placed first for the third consecutive year in the Transparency 
in Corporate Reporting Assessment by Transparency International Sri 
Lanka, obtaining a 100% score for transparency in disclosure practices. 
For the industry-group specific awards, refer Industry Group Review – page 47. 
The Group is home to a significant number of brands which have gained 
recognition in their respective spheres over many years. The brands 
connected to each of the industry groups are depicted below. 
BRAND STEWARDSHIP

135
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
OUTLOOK
The section that ensues entails a discussion of the Group’s approach 
to navigating through the current socio-economic and socio-political 
landscape. The section highlights industry-specific implications as 
well as the way forward for the Group. 
MACROECONOMIC OUTLOOK
Global Context
The International Monetary Fund (IMF) projects global growth to slowdown to 2.8% in CY2023 and 
marginally increase thereafter to 3.0% in CY2024 and beyond. The slowdown in growth is projected 
on the back of tightening policy stances adopted in most major economies to contain inflationary 
pressure, lagged effects of the recent deterioration in financial conditions, the ongoing Russia-
Ukraine conflict, and growing geo-economic fragmentation. Downside risks to this outlook include 
a deterioration in financing conditions on the back of acute financial sector stress, sovereign debt 
distress becoming more systematic, potential aggravation of the Russia-Ukraine crisis and more 
persistent inflation, compelling Central Banks worldwide to adopt a further policy tightening response. 
IMF Growth Projections
IMF Growth Projections
Global
Economy
Global
Economy
Advanced
Economies
Advanced
Economies
Emerging Markets and
Developing Economies
Emerging Markets and
Developing Economies
Emerging and
Developing Asia
Emerging and
Developing Asia
(%)
(%)
3.4
6.1
5.2
6.8
7.3
2.7
2.8
1.3
3.0
1.4
4.0
4.4
5.3
5.1
3.9
4.2
0
2
4
6
8
10
CY22
CY21
CY23 CY24
CY22
CY21
CY23 CY24
CY22
CY21
CY23 CY24
CY22
CY21
CY23 CY24
Source: World Economic Outlook April 2023, International Monetary Fund.
Global headline inflation, as per IMF, is forecasted to slow down to 7.0% in CY2023 [CY2022: 8.7%] 
on the back of lower commodity prices, although inflation’s return to target is unlikely before 
CY2025 in most economies. With economies trending to target inflation rates, the IMF predicts that 
structural drivers are likely to reduce interest rates to pre-pandemic levels gradually.
Sri Lankan Context
The Government and the Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL) have implemented a multitude of much 
required reforms to stabilise the macroeconomy and the overall operating landscape, which 
has proved fruitful, thus far, in stabilising the economy through effectively managing demand 
pressures, curbing the rapid rise in inflation and easing the pressure on the external sector. Such 
policy measures coupled with the IMF Extended Fund Facility (EFF) arrangement, which is aimed 
at restoring macroeconomic stability, debt sustainability, safeguarding financial system stability 
and strengthening governance, are envisaged to provide a strong foundation for the economy’s 
sustained recovery. Against this backdrop, the Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL) projects the 
economy to contain its contraction to 2.0% in CY2023, as opposed to the 7.8% contraction in 
CY2022, rebounding thereafter to a growth of 3.3%. 
Growth Projections for Sri Lanka
Growth Projections for Sri Lanka
(%)
(%)
3.3
1.5
(3.1)
(3.0)
(2.0)
1.3
(4)
(3)
(2)
(1)
0
1
2
3
4
International Monetary Fund
CY23
CY24
Asian Development Bank
Central Bank of Sri Lanka
Sri Lanka is now faced with the 
challenging task of negotiating 
with the country’s creditors to 
reach an equitable debt treatment 
plan with all creditors. There is 
still uncertainty as to the need 
for a domestic debt restructuring 
and, even if so, the form, structure 
and breadth of the same. The 
Governor of CBSL has assured the 
stability of the domestic banking 
system as well as the protection of 
public deposits will be paramount 
in any kind of debt optimisation 
programme.
Sri Lanka received much-anticipated approval 
from the Executive Board of the IMF for the EFF 
arrangement in March 2023 with the aim of 
restoring macroeconomic stability and debt 
sustainability. In April 2023, Sri Lanka received 
the initial tranche of ~USD 333 million whilst Sri 
Lanka’s creditor nations convened in May 2023 
to find an appropriate solution to Sri Lanka’s 
debt treatment, consistent with the parameters 
of the IMF programme. Sri Lanka is now faced 
with the challenging task of negotiating with the 
country’s creditors to reach an equitable debt 
treatment plan with all creditors. There is still 
uncertainty as to the need for a domestic debt 
restructuring (DDR) and, even if so, the form, 
structure and breadth of the same. The Governor 
of CBSL has assured the stability of the domestic 
banking system as well as the protection of 
public deposits will be paramount in any kind of 
debt optimisation programme. The risk premia 
currently attached to domestic debt as a result 
of this uncertainty should fall away once there 
is clarity on the DDR with expectations that 
interest rates will ease significantly thereon. 
Further to the announcement on the intended 
treatment of domestic debt in late-March 2023, 
the Central Bank of Sri Lanka has communicated 
that they are working towards publicly 
announcing its debt restructuring strategy in 
the near future, enabling the speedy initiation of 
the debt restructuring process and completion 
before September 2023.

136 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
OUTLOOK
The Group is committed to 
actively contributing and 
assuming a proactive stance 
in shaping and propelling the 
nation’s economic revival. 
In pursuit of the Government’s goal of achieving a tax revenue target surpassing 15% of GDP by 
CY2027, the Government has already implemented some of the required measures to enhance 
sustained revenue generation, including upward revisions to direct and indirect tax rates, 
broadening the tax bases, among other actions. Whilst these measures, as expected, would 
curtail consumer spend and activity in the short to medium-term, the stability and confidence in 
achieving fiscal consolidation will lead to a more sustained recovery. 
The new legislative enactments regarding fiscal responsibility are much needed to ensure policy 
consistency and macroeconomic stability, as it provides the relevant checks and balances. As 
part of the IMF-EFF supported program, a new Public Financial Management Act is envisaged 
to be enacted to define the responsibilities of the various spending agencies and establish 
accountability and information requirements. Similarly, introducing performance-based 
accountability and public disclosures, along with strengthening audit functions, will promote 
transparency, credibility, and good governance. The introduction of anti-corruption legislation 
aligned with the United Nations Convention against Corruption (UNCAC), envisaged to be 
introduced as a part of the IMF-EFF programme, will augur well for the country. This is particularly 
relevant given Sri Lanka’s position in the Corruption Perceptions Index (CPI) 2022, where it was 
ranked 101 out of 180 countries, indicating a high level of perceived corruption; this will also 
be central in gaining public support for fiscal consolidation measures and ensuring the overall 
sustainability and discipline of the fiscal sector.
Given the contractionary and non-populist nature of the policy reform measures, it is vital to 
ensure that these measures continue to be in place and sustained over a period of time. An 
economic crisis of this proportion is a catalyst for a major economic overhaul for the country and 
presents a significant opportunity to re-set and re-rate some of the country’s fundamentals. 
Whilst monetary and fiscal tightening measures may limit the growth of private sector credit, 
curbing demand side pressures on inflation, improved availability of fertilisers, commodities 
and fuel coupled with improvements in global supply chains will help alleviate supply-related 
limitations. A potential strengthening of the Sri Lankan Rupee may contribute to reducing price 
pressures in the short-term, although the Central Bank is likely to focus on building its external 
reserves position. Against this backdrop, inflationary pressures on the economy are likely to ease 
gradually which will be further supported by the favourable statistical base effect. 
Although the necessary macroeconomic adjustments may have a negative impact on growth in 
the short-term, such difficult reforms will be pivotal in addressing overall imbalances, restoring 
access to international financial markets, and establishing the basis for sustainable growth. 
However, although the macroeconomic conditions have improved tremendously, the impact on 
consumer discretionary spend and overall growth remain uncertain.
Looking beyond these short-term challenges, with the appropriate policy response, the economy 
is envisaged to gather growth momentum in the medium-term. Hence, the underlying prospects 
for the economy are positive with growth expected to be driven by higher exports, expansion of 
the services sectors and the potential for higher foreign inflows. The revival of the tourism sector 
will also be a key catalyst of economic growth, particularly in the context of the positive impact it 
will have on foreign exchange earnings. Tourism is an area where Sri Lanka can capitalise on within 
a short period of time, particularly given the proximity to significant tourism source markets such 
as India. 
The Group has always primarily engaged with the policymakers and the country’s leadership 
through the respective committees of the Chamber and various forums and will continue to do so, 
ensuring that engagement is managed in the overall interests of the economy and the business 
environment as opposed to the interests of a single company.
Despite the short-term challenges as outlined above, the Group remains confident that Sri Lanka’s 
growth prospects in the medium to long-term remain positive, as outlined in the ensuing Industry 
Group Strategy and Outlook section.
GROUP OUTLOOK
The recent developments on the economic 
front in the country, including the 
implementation of certain much needed 
reforms, the rolling-out of policy initiatives 
and the successful securing of the Extended 
Fund Facility (IMF-EFF) arrangement with the 
International Monetary Fund (IMF), has created 
a solid foundation for the country to recover 
and has enabled a more normal operating 
environment. 
Pressure on margins that was evident in 
2022/23 due to elevated inflation is envisaged 
to ease gradually, as witnessed across most 
businesses in the fourth quarter. In any event, 
inflation is likely to decelerate on the back 
of a notable base effect, as well as a decline 
in global commodity prices, gradual easing 
of the country’s foreign exchange liquidity 
position and improved product availability, 
amongst others. Businesses will continue 
to take all necessary measures, including 
cost and portfolio optimisation strategies, to 
mitigate impacts stemming from inflationary 
pressures to the extent possible. 
On the external sector, although challenges 
pertaining to the sovereign credit rating and 
related financial constraints in the country, 
persist, to an extent, the severe pressures on 
the domestic business environment as a result 
of the external financing and liquidity pressures 
have now substantially eased. It is encouraging 
to note that the operating environment has 
normalised with adequate foreign exchange 
liquidity in the market with Group businesses 
carrying out business as usual. This position 
is envisaged to improve from this base; the 
Group will continue to assess the market, and 
consciously optimise the funding position in 
line with the Group’s funding strategy, including 
converting USD cash holdings in the open 
market to hold Rupees as done in the past, if the 
need arises. Improvements in market sentiment 
coupled with improving liquidity is expected to 
aid in the stabilisation of the exchange rate and, 
importantly, enable the CBSL to build its foreign 
currency reserves position. 

137
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
INSIGHTS
Managing the Group’s foreign currency exposure
Managing the Group’s exposure to foreign currency fluctuations is of utmost priority. 
Although the Rupee witnessed a steep depreciation in March 2022 due to the previously 
pegged exchange rate not being reflective of market rates, the Rupee has now stabilised 
and appreciated by ~10% as a result of fiscal and monetary policy measures. Movements of 
the exchange rate have the following implications on the Group’s financial position, if not 
optimally managed.
	y
Gross debt will record a movement, primarily given the translation impact on the USD 175 
million long-term loan facility at the Holding Company and the USD 225 million long-term 
loan facility at Waterfront Properties (Private) Limited.
	y
Any translation impact on the USD 175 million long-term loan facility is negated at a net 
debt level as the Holding Company maintains a net foreign currency cash position as of the 
date of the Report. Any exchange impact stemming from foreign currency cash holdings, 
if applicable, is likely to be immaterial as there would be a corresponding liability offsetting 
such impacts. 
	y
The foreign currency cash holdings include the funds earmarked for the equity infusions 
of the ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’ project and the funds raised for the Group’s 
investment pipeline via the debt drawdown of the long-term loan facility from the 
International Finance Corporation (IFC), the private placement of ordinary shares to the 
Asian Development Bank as well as the convertible debentures to HWIC Asia Fund.
	y
At a Group level, the translation risk is also largely hedged ‘naturally’ as a result of the 
conscious strategy of matching liabilities against foreign currency denominated assets and 
revenue streams, to the extent possible.
	y
It is pertinent to note that the pressures on the exchange rate exposure arising from the 
‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’ project is mitigated to a large extent as the functional 
currency of Waterfront Properties (Private) Limited, its project company, is US Dollars. 
Accordingly, the risk is largely hedged ‘naturally’ given the expectation of foreign currency 
linked revenue streams. 
	y
The Group will continue to manage its foreign currency portfolio and investment pipeline 
optimally, by matching liabilities against corresponding assets, where possible, particularly 
given the ongoing constraints in the domestic foreign currency markets. 
The impact and outlook on consumer spend as a consequence of the fiscal and monetary 
tightening measures, including higher taxation, and elevated inflation are somewhat uncertain 
at this juncture in time. However, the decline in consumer spending as witnessed in the fourth 
quarter, may continue to the first half of the ensuing year given the multiple impacts on 
consumer incomes and costs. It is pertinent to note that the degree of impact of macroeconomic 
fundamentals on businesses will be divergent. The impact on businesses such as Supermarkets, 
where consumer baskets comprise of household necessities, personal care and other household 
items, is more insulated in comparison to an industry group such as Consumer Foods which 
comprise of more discretionary items, albeit low value items. As such, for greater clarity, the 
outlook for the macroeconomy and implications from the current environment on each of the 
industry groups is discussed in detail in the ensuing section.
Whilst interest rates have declined quite materially, the interest rate environment is still elevated 
compared with 12 months ago. This will continue to exert pressure on Group businesses in the 
near-term as a result of increasing funding costs. It is pertinent to note that interest rates may ease 
in the future once there is clarity on the domestic debt restructure, as the risk premia currently 
attached to domestic debt as a result of this uncertainty will fall away. The Group had mitigated the 
risk of increasing LKR interest rates, to an extent, as it had previously moved a sizeable portion of its 
short-term facilities into long-term facilities, prior to the sharp upward movement in interest rates. 
A majority of such facilities were obtained 
at the time on a fixed/capped rate basis. The 
Group will continue to place emphasis on 
the yield curve and rate expectations when 
entering into new facilities, with the aim of 
optimising the funding costs of the Group. 
Global interest rates are likely to edge up on 
the back of escalating inflation worldwide, 
with most major Central Banks adopting 
contractionary monetary policy measures. This 
will have implications on the Group’s foreign 
currency borrowing portfolio, and the costs 
of funds therein; however, it is noted that 
interest rate swap agreements are in place 
for a sizeable portion of the facilities with the 
aim of mitigating the Group’s exposure to rate 
fluctuations. 
In March 2021, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA), the regulatory body 
overseeing the London Interbank Offered 
Rate (LIBOR), officially confirmed that the 
cessation date for LIBOR settings related to 
all major currencies and two settings for USD 
would no longer be considered representative 
after December 2021, whilst the remaining 
LIBOR settings for USD would cease after June 
2023. Accordingly, all LIBOR linked loans and 
instruments of the Group will be transitioned 
to identified benchmark rates based on the 
Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) 
during the ensuing year. 
Looking towards the medium to long-term, 
growth in consumption and trade in this 
region, including Sri Lanka, is expected to pick-
up supported by strong under-penetration 
in many industries the Group operates in, as 
well as the underlying fundamentals of such 
industries. 
The Group is committed to actively 
contributing and assuming a proactive 
stance in shaping and propelling the nation’s 
economic revival, and is poised to leverage 
on ground-breaking transformative projects, 
namely the ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’ 
and the West Container Terminal in the Port 
of Colombo, which are slated to commence 
operations by end CY2024. The intersection of 
an economic resurgence and the realisation of 
the Group’s landmark transformative projects 
is envisaged to generate significant prospects 
for both the country and the Group, result in 
a ‘re-rating’ of the Group’s performance and 
investment thesis.

138 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
OUTLOOK
Initiatives Aimed at Managing the Group Cash and Liquidity Position
The Group will continue to evaluate its resilience under various stress-tested scenarios, as 
well as continue to follow the various processes, frameworks and measures undertaken in the 
previous years to ensure a sustainable and agile operating model, with a focused view on cash 
management and liquidity. The need for such scrutiny is more pronounced, given the close 
integration between the economy and its impact on operations. Accordingly, Group businesses 
will continue to:
	y
Use weekly dashboards, which cover financial and non-financial key performance indicators 
(KPIs), including monitoring of weekly cash and collections targets.
	y
Leverage on ‘cash war rooms’ and ‘spend control towers’ to critically review each and every 
spend item, prioritise payments, and impose clear reporting metrics.
	y
Effect stringent expense control measures, subject to further review depending on the macro 
and operating environment.
	y
Re-evaluate the need for capital expenditure plans at this juncture in time and defer such 
investments as needed to coincide with the recovery trajectory to ensure sustainable returns to 
all stakeholders.
While the current liquidity position of the Group is sufficient to manage current and future 
commitments as planned, the Group will continue to take proactive steps with the view of 
maintaining a strong balance sheet, particularly considering the volatile macroeconomic 
environment and continued uncertainty.
Capital Expenditure
Despite the challenging and unprecedented years, the Group has carried out significant 
investments which have continued steadfastly, maintaining the depth and breadth of the 
Group’s long-term investment strategy which is now coming to fruition. The investments in 
recent years have focused on a refurbished portfolio of Leisure properties and the acquisition 
of a long-term lease on a new hotel in the Maldives. The Group has also doubled its store 
footprint in the Supermarket business to over 130 outlets and capacity and capability 
investments in the Frozen Confectionery and Insurance businesses. 
The Group is confident of its ability to fund projects, if feasible, and as required, thereby 
optimising equity returns in the long run. 
In addition to the routine maintenance capital expenditure, the key investments the Group 
will focus on, in the near-term:
	y
Balance investment towards the completion of ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’
	y
Investment towards the West Container Terminal (WCT-1) of the Port of Colombo
	y
Roll-out of the Supermarket outlets
	y
Completion of ‘Cinnamon Red Kandy’
Emphasis on the Group’s Advanced Analytics and Transformation Journey
OCTAVE, the Data and Advanced Analytics Centre of Excellence of the Group, has made strong 
progress and is expected to continue to lay the platform for the Group’s advanced analytics 
transformation journey. The ongoing assessment of the impact to business of these advanced 
analytics solutions, post roll-out and complete business wide adoption has provided strong 
evidence that the anticipated benefits that were evident through initial pilot projects can be 
sustained at scale, with iterations to adapt to a changing operating environment as and when 
required.
	y
Supermarket business - The use cases rolled out has positive contributions across core aspects 
of the business value chain, including improving the efficacy of pricing and promotions, 
marketing, store operations and supply chain interventions. In alignment with business 
objectives, the use cases also emphasise on driving sustainable margins while retaining ‘value 
for money’, optimising inventory holdings and improving availability, personalising marketing 
communications and improving the 
efficiency of store replenishment and staff 
rostering. Whilst the business will continue 
to place emphasis on further leveraging 
on the use cases already implemented, 
additional use cases aimed at optimising 
the product mix at stores will also be rolled 
out going forward. 
	y
Beverage business - The use cases 
deployed were primarily centred around 
optimising promotional spend across the 
modern trade and general trade segments 
and augmenting the efficiency of the 
distribution network across several levers. 
Additional advanced analytics use cases 
being rolled out in the ensuing period will 
focus on optimising production planning. 
	y
Several use cases were also piloted with 
the aim of developing a more holistic 
understanding of customers within the 
John Keells Group and the interlinkages 
of their interactions with the different 
consumer brands across the Group 
portfolio. These yielded promising results 
and further interventions in this regard are 
planned for the ensuing period.
Independent delivery of these advanced 
analytics use cases has further institutionalised 
capability within the Group to sustain a 
strong advanced analytics practice, which 
was augmented further with the onboarding 
of additional senior advanced analytics 
professionals. OCTAVE will continue to 
source requisite talent to ensure in-house 
expertise and will also focus on ramping up 
the development of ‘use cases’ independently 
which is aimed at developing internal 
capability towards sustaining an advanced 
analytics practice in the Group. 
The Group is of the view that 
emphasis on environmental, 
social and governance (ESG) 
fosters a 360-degree analysis 
of performance and enables 
a sustainable business model 
which can derive and deliver 
value to all stakeholders.

139
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
Continual Advancements on Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Aspects
The Group is of the view that emphasis on environmental, social and governance (ESG) fosters a 
360-degree analysis of performance and enables a sustainable business model which can derive 
and deliver value to all stakeholders. Various measures have been, and are, in place, to ensure a 
holistic view of performance including managing scarce natural resources, enhancing the 
well-being of all stakeholders and ensuring effective governance mechanisms.
As a part of the Group’s ongoing efforts towards increasing emphasis on ESG aspects, the Group 
embarked on reformulating its ESG framework in collaboration with an international third-party 
consulting firm, setting revised Group-wide ESG ambitions and translating such ambitions to 
ESG related targets. This exercise, which is currently ongoing, is expected to ensure enhanced 
alignment between the different ESG strategies of the Group’s business units, culminating in a 
holistic ESG strategy and roadmap for the Group. 
The Group will stay abreast of developments in the ESG space and continue to integrate ESG 
elements with business strategy, operations and in reporting. The Group will also continue to 
leverage on expertise from its partners such as ADB and IFC to further enhance the Group’s 
existing ESG processes and frameworks to reach best in class benchmarks.
Focus on Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
The Group recognises the importance of diversity, equity and inclusion (DE&I) and the 
role it plays in ensuring workplace respect, organisational success and sustainability for all 
stakeholders. In this regard, the Group will continue to take steps aimed at providing a working 
environment where all employees, partners, suppliers and other stakeholders are included, 
their diversity is embraced and where their contributions are valued. As a part of the Group’s 
DE&I strategy, the Group will continue to focus on: 
	y
Building a diverse workforce for the future through attraction and retention policies aimed 
at diverse categories of employees.
	y
Ensuring Group practices enable equitable and meritocratic opportunities to employees 
for recruitment, development and progression.
	y
Integrating diversity into talent management strategy, including targeted strategies aimed 
at specific groups, setting internal goals and targets, and practices to improve flexibility in 
working arrangements and work-life balance.
	y
Providing a safe working environment where employees are treated with fairness and 
respect free from discriminatory, exclusionary and/or harassing behaviours.
	y
Empowering employees to be themselves by creating a working environment where 
employees feel that their gender identity, background, sexual orientation, lifestyle 
and disability, among others, do not affect perceptions of them as professionals or as 
individuals.
	y
Building empathy and respect for employees of all backgrounds and providing training and 
awareness building to tackle sources of conscious or unconscious bias.
	y
Supporting and developing of a diverse set of business and supply chain partners.
Continued Emphasis on Transparency and Governance 
The Group places significant emphasis on its corporate governance framework, with the aim of 
creating an enabling environment for sustainable growth. A well-grounded corporate governance 
framework is vital in reducing corruption and also aids in operating in challenging environments 
characterised by increased involvement from societies, dynamic corporate change, global volatility 
and shareholder activism. It is also pivotal in ensuring corporate fair-mindedness and creating 
sustainable value.
Ensuring transparency is a continually evolving 
journey given progressing regulations, 
advancements in global best practice and 
complex stakeholder needs. The Group will 
continue to stay abreast of internationally 
accepted best practice and continuously 
challenge the status quo in this journey of 
being transparent.
Augmenting transactional and financial 
internal controls with operational aspects, in 
line with international best practice, remains 
a medium-term priority for the Group. 
Continuous strengthening of internal controls 
through a streamlined process that optimises 
and facilitates process audit information, life 
cycle management and related processes are 
expected to eliminate inefficiencies inherent 
in manual processes, provide a platform based 
on process enforcement, enable management 
follow-up based on centrally held data in a 
compliance repository, identify trends, action 
taken, effectiveness and opportunities for 
process improvement by analysing movement 
of the compliance posture and strengthen the 
Group’s ability to prevent and detect fraud.
The Group has also established a process for 
ad hoc internal audit exercises to be carried 
out by the Group Business Process Review 
division, independently, apart from the usual 
internal and external audits that are carried 
out. 
The deteriorating macroeconomic conditions 
coupled with the rising costs of living across 
the past few years have contributed to 
increased migration. This has presented a 
notable challenge for the Group, with higher 
attrition, particularly in the skilled workforce. 
The Group recognises the importance of talent 
retention and takes proactive steps to create 
an enabling environment where employees 
feel valued, supported, and motivated. 
Through a combination of competitive 
benefits, professional development 
opportunities, a positive corporate culture, 
and performance management practices, the 
Group aims to retain the talented workforce 
and promote value creation. Despite these 
interventions to retain talent, increased 
attrition has increased the need for more 
rigorous training aimed at talent retention, 
cross functional training and development, 
and awareness on Group processes and 
internal controls.

140 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
OUTLOOK
INDUSTRY GROUP STRATEGY AND OUTLOOK
The performance of the Transportation industry group is expected to be insulated from the 
ongoing macroeconomic circumstances in Sri Lanka given that a majority of its businesses have 
revenue models primarily driven by offshore markets. Given its direct and indirect exposures to 
foreign currency denominated income streams, the industry group is envisaged to be a driver of 
the Group’s performance in the immediate-term although in Rupee growth terms it is likely there 
will be a negative base effect stemming from the appreciation of the Rupee in the current year as 
against the levels witnessed last year post the steep depreciation of the currency. 
Sri Lanka stands to benefit significantly from the improvement in global trade in the medium 
to long run, supported by economic recovery, increased consumption, and infrastructure 
investments. This is especially advantageous for the country due to its strategic positioning along 
crucial shipping routes.
Immediate to Short-Term
The World Trade Organisation (WTO) projects world merchandise trade volume to slow down to 
1.7% in CY2023, weighed down by the Russia-Ukraine war, persistent high inflation, increasing 
interest rates and financial uncertainty. Momentum is envisaged to gather thereafter to 3.2% in 
CY2024. Downside risks to the forecast include geopolitical tensions, food insecurity, potential 
instabilities in financial markets, escalating inflation and ballooning levels of debt. Despite the 
slowdown in the ensuing year, it is encouraging to note that the Asian region is expected to be a 
key contributor to world trade performance.
(6)
(4)
(2)
0
2
4
6
8
10
World Merchandise Trade Volume and GDP Growth, CY15-CY24
World Merchandise Trade Volume and GDP Growth, CY15-CY24
(Annual % change)
(Annual % change)
CY15
CY16
CY17
CY18
CY19
CY20
CY21
CY22
CY23
CY24
23.1
2.9
21.3
21.3
12.0
12.0
35.4
35.4
25.8
(22.9)
13.3
(0.1)
23.4
23.4
17.2
17.2
19.9
18.8
10.1
10.1
Merchandise trade volume growth
Average trade growth 2010-2022
Real GDP growth at market exchange rates
Average GDP growth 2010-2022
Note: CY23 and CY24 are projections.
Source: WTO for merchandise trade volume and consensus estimates for GDP.
The Ports and Shipping business is envisaged to remain resilient in line with regional trends, 
although volumes may witness pressure in the next couple of quarters. Domestic import volumes 
may continue to experience a decline in lieu of reduced imports on the back of a contraction 
in consumer discretionary spending. The Government’s focus on stimulating trade with India 
through free trade agreements has led to a substantial increase in the volume of cargo being 
transported to and from India and the surrounding region. South Asia Gateway Terminals (SAGT), 
given its positioning as a feeder terminal, is strategically placed to capitalise on this opportunity 
and support the envisaged transshipment cargo flows, to and from India, to large vessels and vice 
versa. The business will continue to proactively optimise its costs, productivity and inventory, whilst 
continually engaging with its customers and other stakeholders. The revenue and profit streams 
of the Ports and Shipping business are largely in foreign currency; should the current appreciating 
trend of the Rupee continue, this would translate to lower results in Rupee terms, although growth 
in absolute volumes and the performance in foreign currency is likely cushion the impact.
Transportation
The Government has conveyed that most 
port related activities will be outsourced to 
the private sector in a bid to increase efficacy 
and any expansions will be pursued through 
public-private partnerships, particularly in the 
Port of Colombo. 
S&P Global Commodity Insights Freight Rate 
Forecast (FRF) service projects container 
freight rates to continue its downward 
trajectory to average ~USD 1,000 - 2,000 per 
forty-foot equivalent unit (FEU) in 2023-24 
from an average of ~USD 7,000 FEU in 2021-
22, and settle at pre-pandemic levels. 
Jan 20
Apr 20
Jul 20
Oct 20
Jan 21
Apr 21
Jul 21
Oct 21
Jan 22
Apr 22
Jul 22
Oct 22
Jan 23
Apr 23
Jul 23
Oct 23
Jan 24
0
1,000
2,000
3,000
4,000
5,000
6,000
7,000
8,000
9,000
10,000
Container Freight Rates (Platts)
Container Freight Rates (Platts)
($/FEU)
($/FEU)
Source: S&P Global Commodity Insights Freight Rate 
Forecast service.
Ongoing challenges from heightened 
competition in regional markets and the 
direct influence of Indian ports, are expected 
to impact bunker volumes in Sri Lanka. 
Nonetheless, the business is currently 
actively exploring possibilities to procure oil 
at more competitive rates, which will aid in 
strengthening its market position, enhancing 
competitiveness, and consolidating its 
presence in the region. Executing strategies 
aimed at mitigating the market risk stemming 
from fluctuations in oil prices and exchange 
rates will remain a priority for the business in 
the near-term. 
The performance of the 
Transportation industry 
group is expected to be 
insulated from the ongoing 
macroeconomic circumstances 
in Sri Lanka given that a 
majority of its businesses have 
revenue models primarily 
driven by offshore markets.

141
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
While the short-term outlook for the next 6-12 
months suggests headwinds for the Logistics 
business, the gradual removal of import 
restrictions and the normalisation of export 
volumes beyond the six-month timeframe 
are anticipated to result in increased volumes, 
which will have a positive impact on the 
business, and the industry as a whole.
The impact on the Airline businesses is 
envisaged to mirror the challenges and 
impacts of the Leisure businesses. The increase 
tourism flows will drive demand and therefore 
airline frequencies should increase in tandem 
with this. There are also a few new carriers 
which have announced new frequencies into 
the country and this should bode well for 
more competitive fares and supply. 
The industry group is exploring a plethora 
of opportunities within the transportation 
vertical with the aim of expanding its footprint 
in Sri Lanka.
Medium to Long-Term 
Ports and Shipping
The recovery of domestic import volumes 
in line with the envisaged recovery of 
the domestic economy post the fiscal 
consolidation process, augmented with 
growth in regional and global trade in the 
medium-term, is expected to bode well for 
the sector. The opportunity to further establish 
Colombo as a regional transshipment hub 
has been further strengthened, post the 
emergence of the pandemic, as shipping 
lines have demonstrated a preference to have 
less direct services and adopt a more ‘hub 
and spoke’ model. The order book of many of 
the leading shipping lines focuses on larger 
container ships, demonstrating their strategy 
and preference to call at transshipment hubs. 
The ongoing investments towards increasing 
the capacity in the POC through the 
development of the East Container Terminal 
(ECT) and West Container Terminal (WCT-1), 
will bode well for the country, ensuring the 
competitiveness of the POC in the region 
– especially in light of increasing capacity 
enhancements in the Indian ports. 
	y
East Container Terminal – ECT is partially 
operational on a transitory basis at 
present. Construction work at the ECT, 
which recommenced in January 2022, is 
envisaged to be conducted in three phases 
and is stated to be completed by CY2024. 
The ECT extends across 75 hectares and 
will consist of a total quay length of 1,320 meters, of which 440 meters was constructed in 
CY2015. Once completed, the SLPA is expected to operate a fully-fledged terminal equipped 
with 12 shore-to-shore (STS) cranes and 40 automated rail mounted gantry (RMG) cranes.
	y
West Container Terminal - The build, operate and transfer (BOT) agreement for the 
development of the West Container Terminal (WCT-1) was signed on 30 September 2021 for 
a lease period of 35 years between the Sri Lanka Ports Authority (SLPA) and Colombo West 
International Container Terminal (Private) Limited (CWIT). The development and operation of 
the WCT-1 was identified as a Strategic Development Project (SDP) with the requisite gazettes 
being issued on 30 July 2021 and 15 November 2021.
The groundwork on WCT-1 at the Port of Colombo is progressing well with the entirety of the 
dredging works for both phases near complete. The contract for the quay wall construction, a 
significant component of the overall construction works, was awarded in October 2022. Overall 
timelines for the project remain as originally envisaged. The WCT-1, which has a lease period of 
35 years, is a deep-water terminal with a quay length of 1,400 meters, an alongside depth of 20 
meters and an annual handling capacity of ~3.2 million TEUs. Phase 1 of the terminal, comprising 
of a quay length of 800 meters as against the previous 600 meters, is slated to be operational by 
the third quarter of 2024/25. The extension of the quay length in Phase 1 facilitates the servicing of 
two large vessels concurrently, which will enable a higher throughput once Phase 1 is operational. 
The remainder of the terminal is expected to be completed by the third quarter of 2025/26. 
The total project cost at the launch of the project was envisaged to be ~USD 650 million with 
a debt to equity mix of ~70:30. The JKH equity commitment is estimated at ~USD 70 million, of 
which ~USD 18 million has been infused. The residual requirement will be infused into CWIT on a 
staggered basis over the remaining project construction period.
	y
SLPA has designated a team of professionals to conduct a feasibility study on the North Port 
of Colombo and formulate a comprehensive 30-year development strategy for the port. The 
long-term aspirations of the SLPA are encouraging and expected to spearhead Colombo being 
established as a leading transshipment hub in the region in terms of scale, providing scope for 
sustainable growth for the sector.
SOUTH HARBOUR 
DEVELOPMENT
CURRENT 
HARBOUR
SAGT
East 
Terminal
West 
Terminal
South Terminal
JCT
CICT
WCT-1
ECT
Colombo South Harbour Development Project
Although the increase in capacity in the POC in the medium-term will result in an impact on 
volumes for the existing terminal operators in the short-term, as seen with the entry of Colombo 
International Container Terminals (CICT) in the past, the capacity led growth will ensure demand 
ramps up significantly, given the factors mentioned previously. This is further validated through the 
traffic and volume studies conducted for the feasibility of the WCT-1 project. South Asia Gateway 
Terminals (SAGT) will continue to explore opportunities in line with the overall enhancements 
to the POC whilst working to improve terminal productivity and efficiency through strategic 
initiatives and investments. Special emphasis will be placed on consolidating its operations, 
providing high value-added and integrated services whilst increasing SAGT’s share of higher 
yielding domestic volumes with a view of achieving a more balanced mix of transshipment to 
domestic volumes, in order to optimise profitability.

142 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
Consumer Foods
OUTLOOK
The Government has also intimated that 
they are in discussions with India on the 
development of the Trincomalee Port, 
particularly given its potential for cruise 
tourism. 
Bunkering
Prospects for bunkering services is promising 
in the medium-term, driven by the envisaged 
increase in regional trade activity and demand 
generated from ongoing investments in 
the POC, Southern and Eastern Ports. The 
Port of Hambantota (POH) is also expected 
to aid overall growth in volumes given 
increased capacity and infrastructure in the 
country. Growth in regional business activity, 
particularly in the SAARC (South Asian 
Association for Regional Cooperation) region 
is also expected to positively impact the 
business.
The primary challenge for the bunkering 
market in Sri Lanka was the limited availability 
of bonded tank space which hampered the 
destination’s regional competitiveness and 
the ability to meet increasing demand. The 
availability of bunkering capacity with the 
operations at the POH having a total capacity of 
~60,000 MT and a 3,200 MT storage tank by Jaya 
Container Terminal (JCT) in 2021/22, in addition 
to bonded tank space in the POC, enables 
industry players to import larger parcels of 
bunker fuel and avail the opportunity to supply 
bunker fuel at more competitive prices in line 
with regional ports. Improved competitiveness 
is expected to drive bunker volumes in 
the industry. In order to capitalise on this 
opportunity, the business will continue to focus 
on further consolidating its own storage and 
delivery capacity, and procurement processes in 
line with market conditions.
Although the industry may experience a shift in volumes from the POC to the POH in the short 
to medium-term, the Group is of the view that an increase in additional tank capacity will aid the 
overall bunker market, positively impacting both the POC and POH. The business will also continue 
to explore opportunities at the POH.
The business will also evaluate options of supplying alternate fuels in the long-term in line with the 
expectations and timelines of the International Maritime Organisation (IMO). 
Logistics
The potential for palletised third-party logistics (3PL) remains promising in the medium to 
long-term with growth expected primarily from inbound project cargo operations, fast-
moving consumer goods (FMCG) and export industries. The anticipated growth in regional and 
domestic trading activity, stemming from global economic recovery and ongoing infrastructure 
developments in the country, indicate significant potential for increasing integration into global 
supply chains and the positioning of Sri Lanka as a global trading hub. John Keells Logistics 
(Private) Limited (JKLL) will endeavour to optimise cost and drive operational efficiencies, 
particularly through emphasis on digitisation initiatives. 3PL customers are increasingly seeking 
end-to-end solutions and, in this regard, every effort will be made to ensure a complete service 
offering.
Airlines
Increased trading activity and investment towards uplifting the tourism industry, as discussed 
in detail in the Leisure section of this write-up, coupled with convenience of faster connectivity 
between cities and Sri Lanka’s growing popularity as a tourist hotspot, are expected to contribute 
towards improved performance of the Airline segment in the medium to-long-term.
The performance of the Beverages, Frozen Confectionery and Convenience Foods businesses are 
expected to face challenges during the ensuing year in lieu of the macroeconomic landscape as 
outlined in the following section. However, looking beyond the short-term impacts, the Group 
remains confident of the underlying fundamentals of the industries the businesses operate in, and 
envisages strong growth momentum in the medium and long-term.
Immediate to Short-Term
Consumer discretionary spending is likely to continue to moderate in the short-term on the back 
of a reduction in disposable income, which is envisaged to hamper growth in demand for non-
essential items. As noted, although the domestic macroeconomic and supply chain conditions 
recorded substantial improvements during the second half of the year under review, with day-
to-day business activity reverting to levels of normalcy, consumer demand began to subdue 
on account of the impact on disposable incomes due to direct and indirect taxation and other 
policy measures being implemented, which impacted the volumes of the businesses. However, 
it is encouraging to note that the volumes of the Beverages business witnessed a pick-up in the 
month of April 2023, although it is too early to ascertain whether this trend would continue. Whilst 
a potential decline in demand may create short-term challenges for the businesses, particularly in 
the first half of the ensuing year, improvements in the macroeconomic front and a resumption of 
consumer confidence may cushion the impact of reducing demand. 
The decrease in global commodity prices from their peak levels, lower freight costs, a turnaround 
in the country’s foreign exchange liquidity, appreciation of the Rupee, and improved availability of 
raw materials are likely to benefit Group businesses by alleviating margin pressures. The inventory 
purchased at higher costs has mostly been depleted, and the gradual reduction in interest 
rates and normalisation of working capital will further support profitability. It is worth noting 
that businesses have already started experiencing a gradual easing of margin pressure post the 
conclusion of 2022/23. While margins at a product level are anticipated to recover, the impact of 
lower dilution of fixed costs due to reduced operating leverage on account of volume declines is 
yet to be fully seen. 
The performance of the 
Beverages, Frozen Confectionery 
and Convenience Foods 
businesses are expected to face 
challenges during the ensuing 
year in lieu of the macroeconomic 
landscape. However, looking 
beyond the short-term impacts, 
the Group remains confident of 
the underlying fundamentals 
of the industries the businesses 
operate in, and envisages strong 
growth momentum in the 
medium and long-term.

143
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
It is encouraging to note that the operating environment has normalised with adequate foreign 
exchange liquidity in the market, where banks have reverted to extending trade facilities, which 
were temporarily halted previously, while supply chains and raw material availability have 
reverted to previous levels. Accordingly, the business is currently not holding excess stocks as a 
risk mitigation against supply chain disruptions. Furthermore, this is expected to reduce working 
capital costs, with additional relief in the event of a further tapering of interest rates as outlined 
above. 
Whilst acknowledging the positive headway made in recent months, given that it is premature 
to ascertain how demand will materialise, capacity enhancements will be evaluated in line with 
business growth in the current year and the evolution of the portfolio of products.
In the current backdrop, managing stakeholder concerns remains pivotal and a key challenge 
to Group businesses. The businesses will continue to strengthen its ties with all stakeholders. 
Emphasis will also be placed on maintaining rigorous engagement with its suppliers and 
distributors to ensure a seamless supply chain, strengthening the procurement process, better 
management of the working capital cycle and reduced credit risk exposure, while further 
streamlining the distributor network to ensure greater stability and consistency for the future. 
Proactively assisting employees in line with Group policies and direction will also be a priority.
As outlined above, cashflow and cost management initiatives will remain a priority throughout the 
ensuing year. 
The businesses will continue to monitor the use cases on advanced data analytics which have 
already been rolled out; such as the use cases in the Beverages business which are aimed at 
optimising promotional spend across modern trade and general trade segments and augmenting 
the efficiency of the distribution network of the business across several levers. The industry group 
will focus on rolling out other advanced analytics use cases in the ensuing period which will 
attempt to optimise production planning, further augmenting the businesses positioning for long-
term sustainable growth.
In tandem with the trends witnessed towards the latter end of the year under review, smaller pack 
sizes and the continued expansion of the Impulse range, particularly given its lower price point, are 
expected to continue its growth, resulting in a higher share of the volume mix. The business will 
continue to focus on re-inventing its portfolio of products as well as packaging to manage costs 
while offering enhanced value to its consumer base. 
With regard to the Beverages business, the continued shift from glass bottles to PET driven by 
consumer convenience and preferences will need to be monitored closely, particularly since glass 
offers greater value for money to consumers which could be a focal point considering current 
market conditions. Although the subdued performance of the hotels, restaurants, and catering 
(HORECA) channel is expected to continue in the short-term, this is expected to gradually recover 
in tandem with tourism recovery.
Key Downside Risks:
	y
Lacklustre growth in consumer 
demand for a prolonged period 
	y
Supply chain disruptions with 
persistent inflation, globally and 
domestically
	y
Abrupt ban of PET (polyethylene 
terephthalate) bottles and other 
plastic materials
Medium to Long-Term
Despite the varying short-term impacts 
on demand and business performance 
on account of the challenging landscape, 
domestic demand conditions are envisaged to 
remain resilient and rebound in the medium-
term in tandem with a revival of the economy 
and improvement in consumer confidence 
post the fiscal consolidation process. 
The penetration of consumer food products 
in Sri Lanka continues to be relatively low 
in comparison to global and regional peers, 
demonstrating the significant potential in 
these industries. Given the higher penetration 
within urban areas, the Group expects growth 
from the outskirts of the country to be a 
substantial driver of medium to long-term 
growth, despite the lower base. The industry 
group will capitalise on this opportunity by 
investing in its supply chain and augmenting 
its portfolio of offerings in line with evolving 
trends. 
The business will continue to invest on its 
digitisation strategy in the medium to long-
term as well, particularly in furtherance of the 
Group’s advanced analytics transformation 
journey through data-driven decision-
making to garner insights, which is expected 
to optimise production practices, deliver 
productivity and cost savings, and identify 
growth opportunities. Diversity, equity and 
inclusion will also be a key thrust area for the 
industry group. 
The introduction of concepts such as 
extended producer responsibility (EPR), with 
the aim of managing waste and increasing 
recycling rates, if implemented gradually with 
proper communication and engagement 
with the affected industries, will aid the 
industry in converting its business models into 
sustainable practices.
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
FY19
FY20
FY21
FY22
FY23
Beyond
Q1
Q4
Q3
Q2
Q1
Q4
Q3
Q2
Beverages and Frozen Confectionery 
Convenience Foods
EBITDA Margin 
EBITDA Margin 
(%)
(%)

144 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
OUTLOOK
Beverages
The business will continue to focus on developing its portfolio in 
line with evolving market trends, where consumers place increased 
emphasis on healthy and sustainable products, which are further 
augmented with evolving regulations and restrictions surrounding 
calorific sugar content in beverages. Accordingly, the share of 
carbonated soft drinks (CSD) as a proportion of total beverages is 
envisaged to proportionately diminish in the long-term in line with 
the trends witnessed in recent years. However, the prospects for the 
beverage industry continue to be promising and provide opportunities 
for growth as these health and eco-conscious consumers seek alternate 
beverage options. 
Similar trends are witnessed globally, where CSD manufacturers 
worldwide continue to engage in reformulation exercises with the 
aim of reducing the sugar content of their products and adopting 
sustainable packaging, whilst extending the portfolios to include non-
CSD beverages which are healthier and more nutritious. To this end, the 
Beverage business has already reformulated its flagship flavours with 
~30% – 45% of the CSD portfolio’s calorific sugar content reformulated 
and replaced with stevia; a natural sweetener with zero calories.
Low consumption patterns and penetration reflects potential for growth in the 
CSD market
Carbonated soft drinks - per capita consumption (litres)
Carbonated soft drinks - per capita consumption (litres)
Sri Lanka
Malaysia
Singapore
Thailand
Philippines
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
10
19
31
39
52
Source: Company analysis
Per capita packaged beverage consumption in Sri Lanka is well below 
regional and global averages highlighting the growth potential for the 
beverage market in the country. As a leading player in the beverages 
market, the Beverages business will leverage on its strong brand equity 
and distribution network to capitalise on this opportunity through 
a continuing pipeline of products, as introduced over the recent 
years, catering to the dynamic lifestyles of consumers. Given evolving 
regulations surrounding single use plastics and interest towards 
environmentally friendly packaging, continual emphasis will also be 
placed on exploring alternate forms of packaging, where feasible. 
Given changing market dynamics, the Beverages business in the 
medium-term will:
	y
Focus on consolidating its current CSD portfolio and discontinuing 
non-performing stock keeping units (SKUs).
	y
Prioritise the extension of the current non-CSD range, based on 
market opportunity.
	y
Manage the composition of the portfolio to ensure optimum 
margins.
	y
Consolidate and stabilise distributor networks whilst improving sales 
force efficiency through digital means.
	y
Explore new operating models, different marketing channels and 
alternate methods of working, given changing consumer behaviour 
and digitisation trends.
	y
Implement lean initiatives at factories.
Frozen Confectionery 
The global frozen confectionery markets have experienced significant 
growth in recent years, barring the impacts of the pandemic, driven by 
rapid urbanisation, rising disposable income, and evolving lifestyle trends. 
The overall prospects for the frozen confectionery markets in Sri Lanka 
remain positive given the industry’s resilience, even amidst challenging 
conditions. This positive trend is expected to persist going forward, 
notwithstanding the short-term impacts previously discussed. 
Ice cream consumption in Sri Lanka at ~3 litres per capita is well below 
global averages, demonstrating the significant potential for growth in 
this market. In line with global and regional peers, the business expects a 
gradual shift in the bulk to impulse mix towards impulse products, with 
impulse products being the primary driver of the envisaged increase in 
per capita ice cream consumption in Sri Lanka. The business will continue 
to invest in expanding its distribution reach in an optimal manner.
The bulk:impulse mix of regional markets is highly tilted towards the impulse 
market, demonstrating the significant potential for the impulse category in the 
overall ice cream market of Sri Lanka
70
30
(%)
Bulk
Impluse
92
8
56
44
Sri Lanka
Sri Lanka
Thailand
Thailand
Malaysia
Malaysia
Beyond
FY20
FY21
FY22
FY23
FY19
0
20
40
60
80
100
71
70
70
68
62
29
30
30
32
38
Bulk:Impulse Volume Mix of the Frozen Confectionery Business
Bulk:Impulse Volume Mix of the Frozen Confectionery Business
(%)
(%)
Impulse
Bulk
The Frozen Confectionery business envisages a similar trend for its 
portfolio in the long-term, in line with the aforementioned overall market 
tilt towards impulse products. As witnessed in recent years, the state-
of-the-art facility in Seethawaka will continue to play a pivotal role in 
catering to this growth trajectory. Whilst this contribution is limited to the 
Impulse segment at present, this is also expected to extend to the Bulk 
segment in the long-run. This facility continues to perform as envisaged, 
aiding innovative new product development, increased operational 
efficiencies and better margins.

145
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
Retail
The performance of the Supermarket business is envisaged to remain insulated, to a large extent, 
despite the ongoing macroeconomic challenges, considering that essential and regular grocery 
and household items constitute a large portion of a consumer basket. While the financial crisis 
has resulted in a dampening of consumer discretionary spending, the combination of rising 
inflation and the continued demand for essential items is anticipated to support the growth of the 
business, similar to the trends observed in the past few quarters. 
The performance of the Office Automation business is envisaged to gradually recover in tandem 
with the stabilisation of the economy.
Immediate to Short-Term
Supermarkets
The Supermarket business anticipates sustained consumer spend given the nature of the business, 
as consumer baskets primarily consist of essential goods, personal care products, and everyday 
household items. Although there has been a decrease in demand for certain items as a result of 
the impact on consumer spending and price sensitivity, particularly for non-essential and luxury 
products, this is likely to be balanced by shifts in consumer preferences towards more affordable 
alternatives within their shopping baskets in line with trends witnessed in 2022/23. 
The Supermarket business witnessed a sustained increase in footfall during the year under review, 
despite the challenging operating environment demonstrating the continued potential for higher 
penetration in certain customer segments. The conversion from general trade to modern trade is 
also envisaged to continue, given the ability of modern trade outlets to ensure better availability 
and less disruptions through the better management of its inventory and working capital. The 
ability to pass on benefits to customers stemming from economies of scale is also a key catalyst for 
growth in modern trade. 
Challenges in sourcing products due to supply chain disruptions, which affected all manufacturers 
and importers of goods, have eased notably since last year which has contributed to improved 
availability. The state-of-the-art distribution centre commissioned in 2021/22, where the entire 
dry product and fresh range was centralised together with other best in class practices being 
adopted, was pivotal in managing the supply chain disruptions and ensuring the outlets were 
supplied in the most optimum and efficient manner. In terms of food production and prices, 
current signs indicate that the lagged effect of fertiliser shortages, which materialised as a result 
of the ban imposed by the Government on the importation of agrochemicals in April 2021, has 
largely subsided leading to a recovery in crop yields. This, coupled with decreasing fuel prices and 
easing inflationary pressures, is envisaged to aid the business in the short-term on the supply chain 
related aspects. 
The direct import strategy, executed in 2021/22, was primarily aimed at addressing the shortages 
in essential goods and other fast-moving items. Although the operating environment has 
significantly improved resulting in a reduction in gaps, the Supermarket business will continue to 
leverage on its direct import strategy with the aim of providing its customer products at the best 
possible value, with consistent supply, thereby also aiding footfall to outlets. Whilst the business 
has increased its private label range successfully during the year under review, the private label 
range continued to be below the peak number of stock keeping units (SKUs) witnessed prior to 
the pandemic and supply chain disruptions; emphasis will be placed on increasing its private label 
range, with the aim of providing its customers with better choice and ‘value for money’, both of 
which are important decision drivers for consumers, particularly at this juncture.
Escalating domestic inflation compelled most suppliers to undertake price increases in 2022/23 
which contributed to an increase in top line, as discussed under the Financial and Manufactured 
Capital Review, although this translated to a minimal impact at a profitability level given a 
corresponding increase in the cost base in lieu of inflation; margins remained resilient. The 
expected reduction in inflationary pressures and interest rates is expected to gradually improve 
margins for the business, as seen in recent quarters. 
The performance of the 
Supermarket business is 
envisaged to remain insulated, 
to a large extent, despite the 
ongoing macroeconomic 
challenges, considering 
that essential and regular 
grocery and household items 
constitute a large portion of a 
consumer basket.
The strategic priorities of the Frozen 
Confectionery business for the short to 
medium-term are:
	y
Focus on consolidating its current Frozen 
Confectionery portfolio, including the 
expansion of the ‘Wellness’ range.
	y
Emphasis on digitisation and process 
improvements.
	y
Explore new operating models, alternative 
distribution channels and alternate 
methods of working.
	y
Investments in its supply chain.
	y
Implementation of lean initiatives at 
factories.
Convenience Foods 
The Convenience Foods business will continue 
to innovate and expand on its portfolio 
offering. Similar to the Beverages and Frozen 
Confectionery businesses, the Convenience 
Foods business will also place emphasis 
on staying abreast of market trends and 
delivering products in line with consumer 
preferences. 
The strategic priorities for the business for the 
medium-term are: 
	y
Development of product extensions, 
paving the way for the business to increase 
its market share, particularly through 
emphasis on ‘convenient’ and affordable 
meal options.
	y
Focus on consolidating the dry distribution 
network and sales force to ensure readiness 
to cater to the envisaged growth in 
volumes. 
	y
Emphasis on growing the modern and 
general trade channels, particularly the 
organised small and medium entities 
under general trade thereby increasing 
footprint. 
	y
Focus on further augmenting its portfolio 
offering.

146 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
INSIGHTS
The Supermarket business leverages on a 
standard and an extended ‘iconic’ format 
depending on the maturity of the market. 
The concept of the extended ‘iconic’ 
format for select ‘Keells’ outlets, is aimed at 
enhancing the overall customer experience 
through best-in-class retail technological 
solutions and a wider offering.
The selection of an extended ‘iconic’ 
format for outlets typically depends on 
the level of development in a particular 
area. In most cases, businesses identify 
existing outlets that can expand their 
offerings to accommodate a larger range 
of products and services. However, there 
are occasional situations where an outlet 
with an extended ‘iconic’ format is opened 
immediately, without first having an 
existing outlet to build upon.
Technological offerings:
	y
‘Scan & Go’ technology
	y
Self-checkout capability
	y
Digital automated price tags
	y
Self-weighing scale
	y
Self-ordering kiosks for food
Food and beverage offerings:
	y
‘Kafe’ serving coffee, snacks and other 
beverages
	y
Chef’s counter serving
	y
Ready-to-eat meals
	y
Make your own pizza counter
It is pertinent to note that despite the 
additional investment associated with 
the conversion of the standard format 
outlet to the extended ‘iconic’ format, the 
payback on these investments based on 
incremental performance is attractive. 
Given the increase in 
construction costs, the 
business will carefully 
evaluate and monitor the 
expansion of its outlet 
footprint in the short-term to 
ensure that expected returns 
are achieved, considering 
the increased investment 
required for each outlet.
OUTLOOK
(4)
(2)
0
2
4
6
8
10
FY19
FY20
FY21
FY22
FY23
Beyond
Q1
Q4
Q3
Q2
Q1
Q4
Q3
Q2
EBITDA Margin
PBT Margin
Supermarkets Margins
Supermarkets Margins
(%)
(%)
Given the increase in construction costs, the business will carefully evaluate and monitor the 
expansion of its outlet footprint in the short-term to ensure that expected returns are achieved, 
considering the increased investment required for each outlet. While the investment per outlet 
has seen a significant increase, the business has also experienced substantial revenue growth, 
which will have a positive influence on the feasibility studies conducted for potential new outlets 
in furtherance of its selective expansion strategy. The business will also continue to identify more 
mature stores of its footprint, which has the ability to scale up with an expanded offering.
The distribution centre is envisaged to significantly contribute to process and operational 
efficiencies, enabling better visibility of the supply chain and reducing stock holding costs. 
The business remains committed to prioritising the betterment of its employees, suppliers and 
customers, and will continue to take necessary actions and interventions as needed. Transparent 
communication with customers and active engagement with suppliers and other stakeholders will 
be maintained to ensure a continually functioning supply chain. Emphasis will also be placed on 
cost optimisation and working capital management, although the pressure on working capital is 
expected to improve during the short-term.
Office Automation
The performance of the Office Automation business is envisaged to gradually improve in tandem 
with the improvement in economic conditions. Although challenges in the foreign currency 
market have largely ceased, creating headroom for growth on the supply side, a contraction in 
consumer discretionary spending may have implications on the demand for mobile phones and 
office automation products. 
Medium to Long-Term
Supermarkets
The prospects for the modern trade industry in Sri Lanka remains promising, given the low 
penetration of modern trade outlets in the country, growth expectations for consumer demand 
and the steady conversion from general trade to modern trade driven by demand for better 
quality, convenience and ‘value for money’ by consumers. The Supermarket business is uniquely 
positioned to capitalise on this opportunity by leveraging on its high brand equity. 
Prospects for the modern trade industry in Sri Lanka is promising, given the low penetration of modern 
trade outlets in the country.
Thailand
Sri Lanka
Taiwan
Hong Kong
Malaysia
Singapore
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
40
17
43
48
49
70
Modern Retail Penetration
Modern Retail Penetration
(%)
(%)
Source: Company analysis

147
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
The business will continue with the 
development and implementation of 
advanced analytics ‘use cases’ in order to 
foster data-driven decision-making. 
Modern Trade Density
Modern Trade Density
Population (’000) per store
Population (’000) per store
132.0
47.0
30.0
21.0
7.3
4.7
4.5
3.7
3.6
3.4
3.0
2.5
1.9
0.9
0
30
60
90
120
150
India
Vietnam
Sri Lanka
Philippines
Indonesia
Thailand
Malaysia
Singapore
China
Hong Kong
Australia
New Zealand
Taiwan
Korea
Source: Retail and shopper trends in the Asia Pacific, AC Nielsen
The Supermarket business will continue to place emphasis on 
differentiating the shopping experience for its customers through its 
‘fresh’ promise, service excellence and quality within five activity pillars; 
product, price, place, people and the customer. The business will 
also focus on continually expanding its footprint to capitalise on the 
envisaged growth of the modern trade industry given its low density 
and penetration levels. ‘Brick and mortar’ stores are expected to be the 
key driver of growth going forward for the foreseeable future, although 
online sales will increase its contribution over the years. Consumer 
behaviour suggests an inclination to shop at physical stores. 
In this light, the business will continue the expansion of its geographical 
footprint in the medium-term, both in urban and suburban areas, timing 
such expansion plans based on the macroeconomic landscape and 
the maturity of these markets. In addition to its standard store format, 
the business will also grow the extended store format in pursuing its 
expansion plans for select areas, to optimise capital expenditure and 
operational costs, until such time these earmarked markets mature 
by which time the store can be expanded from a standard format to 
a more extended format. The key challenges faced during expansion 
include securing lease of land plots in prime locations which are in 
conformity with brand specifications. The business will continue to focus 
on retaining its labour force by augmenting its recruitment processes, 
empowering these individuals and focusing on the employer brand. 
The DC in Kerawalapitiya will augment the business’s expansion, 
particularly given its ability to cater to the number of outlets well beyond 
the medium-term. As outlined above, the operation of the new DC is 
expected to result in significant supply chain efficiencies, particularly given 
the centralisation of almost the entirety of the dry and fresh range of the 
current modern trade offering. Additionally, the DC is expected to enhance 
supply chain visibility, leading to further improvements in operations.
Given the significant roll-out of outlets in the past few years, profitability 
and margins of the Supermarket business were impacted by the 
funding costs associated with such investment and also the lower 
relative contribution considering the ramp up period of new outlets. 
EBITDA margins of new outlets are comparatively lower than mature 
outlets, given that new outlets typically take 12-16 months to ramp up 
to normalised operational levels. Whilst the impact of new outlets was 
more pronounced at the outset, since the outlet count has doubled 
over a period of three years, as evident during non-pandemic affected 
periods of operations, the business has seen the normalisation of the 
impact of new outlet expansion since the base of existing outlets are 
now proportionately much higher relative to the expansion envisaged. 
Continued emphasis will also be placed on higher private label 
penetration in order to enhance customer choice and drive margins. 
The business will continue with the development and implementation 
of advanced analytics ‘use cases’ in order to foster data-driven 
decision-making. The preliminary results of the ‘use cases’ already 
rolled-out, focusing on aspects such as promotion effectiveness, range 
optimisation, and marketing outreach, are promising and expected to 
meaningfully contribute towards enhanced performance and driving 
customer intimacy through a deeper understanding of customer 
requirements.
Office Automation 
Looking beyond the short-term challenges, John Keells Office 
Automation (JKOA) remains confident of the underlying demand for 
office automation solutions and smart mobile phones which is expected 
to be driven by increasing commercial activity within the country and 
an improvement in business sentiment. As evident from the results prior 
to Sri Lanka’s external financing crisis, the business has the potential to 
grow significantly on the back of rapid urbanisation. The Government’s 
initiatives aimed at transforming Colombo as a financial hub will also 
augur well for the business. 
The business will continue to expand its presence in the market in line 
with the envisaged growth, whilst leveraging on its portfolio of world-
class brands and distribution network. The business will also leverage 
on its brand equity to ensure a continued supply of mobile phones into 
the market at varying price points, aimed at different market segments, 
thereby strengthening its position in the mobile phone market. The 
business will place emphasis on improving productivity and efficiency 
in its sales and aftercare operations to ensure high quality customer 
service. To this end, focus will also be placed on a range of initiatives 
aimed at digitising the supply chain to consolidate its operations and 
improve productivity.
Beyond
FY20
FY21
FY22
FY23
FY19
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
5.4
8.0
1.7
7.6
0.8
7.8
1.3
7.5
1.1
0.1
Margins of the Supermarket Business
Margins of the Supermarket Business
(%)
(%)
EBITDA margin
PBT margin

148 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
Leisure
OUTLOOK
In terms of fostering economic growth in Sri Lanka, the tourism industry demonstrates ample 
potential to place the country as a tourism hub in the South Asian region, given its geographical 
diversity, rich cultural heritage and proximity to two of the largest outbound travel markets in the 
World, India and China. Considering the strategic reasons mentioned before, improving tourism 
inflows and receipts to the country is a relatively easier task and a ‘quick win’ which will result in 
material economic benefits. Tourism will be a key catalyst to drive the recovery of the economy, 
particularly in the context of the positive impact it will have on foreign exchange earnings. 
Unfortunately, the tourism industry in Sri Lanka has undergone unprecedented challenges across 
four consecutive years since the Easter Sunday terror attacks in April 2019, the subsequent global 
and local outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, and thereafter the macroeconomic crisis, which has 
exerted significant pressure on performance.
Sri Lanka recorded over 770,323 tourist arrivals for 2022/23, with March 2023 recording the highest 
number of arrivals since the peak of the economic crisis. The industry is envisaged to sustain this 
growth momentum on the back of accommodative travel policies and competitiveness as a 
destination in terms of the diverse and unique nature of offerings, as well as pricing, particularly, 
given the recent steep depreciation of the local currency. Against this backdrop, the Group 
remains confident that the prospects for tourism remain extremely positive given the unique and 
diverse offering and the potential for regional tourism.
Immediate to Short-Term
Global Tourism
The United Nations World Tourism Organisation (UNWTO) projects the outlook for tourism based 
on two scenarios, as morefully detailed in the ensuing section. UNWTO forecasts international 
tourist arrivals for CY2023 to range between 80% to 95% of pre-pandemic levels. Similarly, the 
World Travel and Tourism Council (WTTC) estimates the sector to close in on its all-time high in 
CY2019, by recovering by more than 95%.
Jan
1
Feb
Mar
Apr
May
Jun
Jul
Aug
Sep
Oct
Nov
Dec
Jan
Feb
Mar
Apr
May
Jun
Jul
Aug
Sep
Oct
Nov
Dec
Jan
Feb
Mar
Apr
May
Jun
Jul
Aug
Sep
Oct
Nov
Dec
Jan
Mar
Apr
May
Jun
Jul
Aug
Sep
Oct
Nov
Dec
CY20
CY20
CY21
CY21
CY22
CY22
Monthly international tourist arrivals in CY2020, and UNWTO projections for CY2022
Monthly international tourist arrivals in CY2020, and UNWTO projections for CY2022
CY23
CY23
0
(20)
(40)
(60)
(80)
(100)
Scenario 1
Scenario 2
Actual data
2023 change
(Over CY23)
(5%)
(20%)
(YoY %)
(YoY %)
(65)
(15)
(90)
(74)
(86)
(87)
54)
(65)
(25)
Feb
Source: UNWTO World Tourism Barometer January 2022.
The UNWTO estimates that international tourist arrivals reached ~80% of pre-pandemic levels in 
the first quarter of CY2023, with an 86% growth in international tourism. 
Potential headwinds to the outlook primarily 
stem from the global economy, including 
persistent high inflation and the resultant 
contractionary monetary and fiscal policy 
measures and the Russia-Ukraine conflict. 
UNWTO anticipates tourists to prioritise value 
for money and opt for travel destinations 
closer to their home countries this year, given 
the challenging economic circumstances 
globally. 
The notable increase in airfares in comparison 
to pre-pandemic rates, has exerted additional 
pressure on the travel and hospital industry. 
However, the strong ‘pent-up’ demand for 
travel and tourism that is continuing, sustained 
recovery of air connectivity, recent reopening 
of China and other major Asian markets 
and destinations, coupled with improved 
sentiment, is envisaged to offset these 
impacts. 
Sri Lanka
Sri Lanka is envisaged to recover from the 
socio-economic crisis on the back of the many 
difficult, yet necessary, corrective measures 
that were undertaken and also proposed for 
implementation to stabilise and revive the 
economy. 
The tourism industry recorded an encouraging 
uptick in tourist arrivals, in tandem with the 
gradual improvement in macroeconomic 
conditions from the fourth quarter of 
2022/23, and the resultant relaxation of travel 
advisories; in March 2023, Sri Lanka recorded 
the highest number of arrivals since the peak 
of the economic crisis. The Sri Lanka Tourism 
Development Authority aims to attract 2 
million visitors in CY2023. Although arrivals are 
still significantly below pre-pandemic levels, 
Africa
Middle
East
Americas
Asia and
the Paciﬁc
Europe
World
(69)
(34)
(20)
(59)
(20)
(10)
(93)
(72)
(46)
(63)
(29)
(14)
(72)
(33)
(12)
(66)
(10)
15
(100)
(80)
(60)
(40)
(20)
0
20
International Tourist Arrivals (vs. pre-pandemic levels)
International Tourist Arrivals (vs. pre-pandemic levels)
(%)
(%)
CY21*
CY22*
Jan-Mar CY23* 

149
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
As a destination, Sri Lanka continues to remain attractive as a tourism hub, given its competitive 
edge over its regional peers:
	y
A range of tourist attractions (wildlife, beaches and historical sites). As per UNWTO, nature, 
rural tourism and road trips remain as key trends. 
	y
UNWTO projects domestic tourism and travel closer to home as one of the major trends; 
showcases Sri Lanka’s ability to tap into the Indian market, and potentially China.
	y
The steep depreciation of the domestic currency in March 2022 has increased the ‘value for 
money’ nature of the total destination.
	y
Increased connectivity and supporting infrastructure.
Whilst driving demand will be imperative, the Sri Lankan Leisure businesses will execute a 
comprehensive rate strategy to ensure optimisation of returns; accordingly, the Sri Lankan Leisure 
properties are expected to adopt marginal increases in average room rates in USD terms. The rate 
strategy will also take into consideration the planned increase in tourist arrivals over the ensuing 
months against the inventory of rooms in Sri Lanka which largely remains unchanged. Whilst this 
is unlikely to have a material impact on occupancy, this is envisaged to translate to better top-line 
performance of the businesses and aid revenue growth whilst also ensuring optimised yields. 
However, inflationary pressures and the high interest rate environment are envisaged to impact 
operating costs which is likely to exert pressure on margins and profitability as detailed further in 
the ensuing section.
Whilst inflation and interest rates have eased relative to the peak witnessed during a majority 
of 2022/23, the absolute levels are still at a high compared with 12 months ago. These impacts, 
together with fiscal consolidation measures, are likely to hamper demand for domestic travel and, 
in addition, may exert pressure on food and beverage (F&B) performance. 
Given the significant cost pressures, particularly in restaurant operations and events and 
banqueting, the businesses will continue to adopt stringent expense control and cost optimisation 
measures, although the price increases undertaken in the recent past, to ease impacts on F&B 
performance, will help partially offset this impact. 
Despite the cost pressures, the EBITDA of the businesses is expected to improve in tandem with 
occupancy increases given a better absorption of fixed costs, whilst any incremental foreign 
currency revenue will also positively impact EBITDA considering the relatively higher exchange 
rate in comparison to the previous years. However, this may be partially offset at a PBT level due 
to significant finance costs on account of the still elevated interest rate environment at present. It 
it is encouraging to witness the month-on-month pick-up in inquiries and forward bookings. The 
recovery trend in arrivals is expected to continue with growth across all major source markets. 
The strong economic growth in India and the resultant increase in travel in India is a significant 
opportunity for Sri Lanka, particularly considering the proximity to key Indian cities. Further, the 
opening of the Chinese borders for international travel in January 2023 after a period of three years 
and the increase in frequencies of flights by a few major airlines is envisaged to augur well for the 
destination.
While the current situation on the ground has reverted to normal, the negative perception and 
lack of awareness, especially in our key source markets, continues to be a challenge in accelerating 
the recovery momentum in tourist arrivals. Tourism will be a key catalyst in driving the recovery 
of the economy, particularly in the context of the positive impact it will have on foreign exchange 
earnings. Against the backdrop, it is pivotal that tourism authorities expedite the launch of Sri 
Lanka’s much awaited global marketing campaign, especially in key source markets with the aim of 
raising awareness regarding the normalised ground situation in the country. 
Sri Lanka continues to remain attractive as a tourist destination given our diverse landscape and 
unique offerings, with the added competitive advantage from a pricing perspective due to the 
significant depreciation of the Rupee in March 2022. 
is pertinent to note, as mentioned earlier, that 
interest rates may ease further once there is 
clarity on the DDR as the risk premia currently 
attached to domestic debt as a result of this 
uncertainty will fall away. A portion of the 
industry group’s debt is on fixed terms and 
therefore has helped to partially insulate the 
impact of elevated interest rates. 
In terms of portfolio expansion, ‘Cinnamon Red 
Kandy’, jointly developed by John Keells Hotels 
PLC (KHL) and Indra Traders (Private) Limited, 
is currently under development. The capital 
deployed for the project will be based on an 
asset-light investment model and the Group 
will maintain a 40% minority equity stake in 
line with this strategy. The management of the 
hotel will fall under the purview of the Hotel 
Management sector. The hotel, which is an 
extension under the select service segment 
of ‘Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts’, is expected to 
be completed in 2024/25 and will feature 216 
rooms, and amenities such as an expansive 
rooftop bar and a swimming pool, amongst 
others.
‘Cinnamon Bentota Beach’, which was unable 
to realise its full potential post the reopening 
of the property given the closure of the 
country’s borders and restrictions on global 
tourism in the past couple of years, recorded 
an encouraging performance during the year. 
This improvement is envisaged to gather 
momentum with the growth in arrivals, 
thereby capturing premium average room 
rates (ARRs) and enhancing the ‘Cinnamon’ 
brand, particularly in the medium to long-
term.
The construction work at ‘Cinnamon Life 
Integrated Resort’ is progressing well, with the 
hotel, retail and entertainment components 
in the final stages of construction. The fitouts 
and interior works of the hotel rooms and 
common areas are well underway with ~500 
rooms already completed. The business will 
continue to engage with potential tenants of 
the retail mall, to ensure unique attractions 
and offerings. Various alternatives including 
experiential offerings focused on food and 
beverages, lifestyle and entertainment, which 
would complement the hotel and gaming 
operations, will be considered for the retail 
space.
Refer medium to long-term outlook below, for 
further details. 

150 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
OUTLOOK
Maldives
The Government of Maldives successfully exceeded its target of 1.60 
million arrivals for CY2022, recording 1.68 million tourist arrivals in 
CY2022. Arrivals thereafter from January to April 2023 noted significant 
growth against the comparative period. For CY2023, the Government 
has announced a target of 1.80 million arrivals. 
Tourism in the Maldives is expected to be driven by organic growth 
in global tourism post adjusting for the impacts of the Russia-Ukraine 
crisis. Increased capacity due to the impending completion of the 
Velana International Airport expansion and a rebound in Chinese arrivals, 
which was the single largest source market into the Maldives prior to 
the pandemic, will aid growth. Potential downside risks include a slower 
recovery in tourism than envisaged, adverse oil prices stemming from 
inflationary pressures affecting long-haul travel from source markets, and 
the potential resurgence of pandemic related challenges.
Whilst the Russia-Ukraine crisis may exert pressure on performance, as 
noted previously, this is envisaged to be offset through organic growth 
in global tourism. It is encouraging that the rebound in tourism into the 
Maldives has been primarily driven by traditional source markets, while 
alternate markets have also contributed significantly, demonstrating 
the ‘pent-up’ demand and showcasing the potential for arrivals. This is 
despite there being no Chinese arrivals due to restrictions for travel out 
of China till January 2023. 
As noted in the Leisure Industry Group Review, arrivals to the Maldives 
and the Group’s Maldivian properties have been very encouraging, 
where occupancy and ARRs have reached pre-pandemic levels. The 
Group is well positioned to capitalise on this opportunity, as witnessed 
in 2022/23, given that the full complement of all four resorts in the 
Maldives is available following refurbishment and reconstruction just 
prior to the pandemic.
Medium to Long-Term
The Group remains confident that the prospects for tourism, and 
the Leisure industry group in particular, in the medium to long-term 
remain extremely positive. This optimism is based on the diverse range 
of offerings and the potential for regional tourism, supported by the 
availability of a comprehensive portfolio of hotels to accommodate the 
expected surge in demand. Sri Lanka’s potential in the tourism sector 
remains largely untapped, considering that the country received only 2.3 
million tourists prior to the Easter Sunday attacks in CY2019, while regional 
tourism has experienced significant growth over the past decade.
(Arrivals in million)
(Arrivals in million)
Tourist arrivals lag well below regional peers
Tourist arrivals lag well below regional peers
Malaysia
Indonesia
Thailand
Vietnam
Cambodia
CY2018 arrivals for
comparative purposes
(CY2019 includes the impact
of Easter Sunday attacks)
Sri Lanka
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
CY90
CY19
Note: Given the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic in CY2020 and CY2021, the graph 
compares tourist arrivals in CY1990 against CY2019.
A concerted marketing campaign, improving connectivity into the 
country at competitive rates, addressing capacity constraints both 
in terms of airport capacity constraints and tourism infrastructure is 
expected to be a significant catalyst to attract tourism into Sri Lanka.
The Bandaranaike International Airport (BIA) expansion project is a two-phase 
project - phase B, providing 23 additional parking spaces (aprons) for aircrafts 
using the facility was concluded in November 2021. Phase A, which entails 
the construction of a new passenger terminal building has, unfortunately, 
been suspended with the final date of opening uncertain at this time. 
The opening was previously planned for CY2024 and it is hoped that the 
authorities will re-commence the project and fast track this important 
aspect of infrastructure to support the tourism industry. Post completion, the 
terminal will have the ability to handle 15 million passengers annually. 
Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts
The businesses will continue to operate within the realigned structure put 
in place in 2020/21, which is a part of the Group’s vision of expanding its 
footprint, in an asset-light model, to enable the businesses to create a holistic 
value proposition that leverages on the round-trip offerings in Sri Lanka and 
the Maldives, whilst fostering greater synergies and efficiencies across the 
hotel portfolio resulting in an enhanced customer value proposition.
Round trip offering in key tourist destinations of Sri Lanka; further 
potential to expand the ‘Cinnamon’ footprint both in the Maldives and 
Sri Lanka
Hotels in 
Colombo
Cinnamon Grand 
Colombo 
(501 rooms)

Cinnamon 
Lakeside 
Colombo
(346 rooms)

Cinnamon Life*
(800 rooms)

Cinnamon Red 
Colombo***
(243 rooms)

Cinnamon 
Velifushi 
Maldives
(90 rooms)

Cinnamon 
Hakuraa Huraa 
Maldives 
(100 rooms)

Cinnamon 
Dhonveli 
Maldives
(152 rooms)

Ellaidhoo 
Maldives by 
Cinnamon
(112 rooms)

Cinnamon 
Bey 
Beruwala
(199 rooms)

Cinnamon 
Bentota 
Beach (159 
rooms)

Cinnamon 
Lodge 
Habarana 
(138 rooms)

Hikka 
Tranz by 
Cinnamon
(150 rooms)

Cinnamon 
Citadel 
Kandy
(119 rooms)

Habarana 
Village by 
Cinnamon
(108 rooms)

Cinnamon 
Wild Yala
(68 rooms)

Trinco Blu by 
Cinnamon
(81 rooms) 

Cinnamon 
Red Kandy** 
(216 rooms)

Maldives
Hotels in Colombo
Sri Lanka
Note:
*Currently under construction
**Currently under construction, minority stake with management rights
***minority stake with management rights in ‘Cinnamon Red Colombo’. 
Of the total freehold land acreage owned, a total of 96 acres of freehold land 
are in key tourist hotspots:
	y Ahungalla (Southern Province) : 
10.9 acres
	y Trincomalee (Eastern Province) : 
14.6 acres
	y Nilaveli (Eastern Province) :  
41.7 acres
	y Wirawila (Southern Province) : 
25.2 acres

151
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
Based on discussions, it is 
estimated that the overall 
fitout of the gaming space will 
take a period of ~12-15 months 
once the commercial aspects 
and agreements are finalised. 
Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort
The ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’ will help 
establish Colombo as a tourism hub given 
its multi-use facilities and iconic design. The 
proposed gaming facility is envisaged to be a 
catalyst in providing unprecedented growth 
opportunities for the Group and complement 
this multifaceted development, which 
includes an 800-room hotel, many specialty 
restaurants, retail and entertainment spaces, 
two residential apartment towers and an office 
tower with ample car parking.
Subsequent to the gazetting of the gaming 
regulations by the Government in August 
2022, the Group is currently engaged in 
discussions with some leading international 
gaming operators to secure the necessary 
international gaming expertise to operate 
at ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’. A lot 
of groundwork has been carried out by the 
parties, including detailed site visits, evaluation 
of the business case and operating model, 
fitout requirements, designs and timelines. The 
discussions are progressing well, where various 
commercial structures and arrangements are 
being negotiated. In the event ‘Cinnamon 
Life Integrated Resort’ is unable to obtain 
favourable terms to our satisfaction, as an 
alternative, the Group will work on a model 
where the gaming entity sources the requisite 
international gaming expertise to operate at 
‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’, similar to 
how some other successful regional integrated 
resorts have established operations. 
The envisaged structure of the gaming 
operations is that ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated 
Resort’ will lease space to the gaming entity, 
while a third party will invest in the gaming 
fitout. Based on discussions, it is estimated 
that the overall fitout of the gaming space 
will take a period of ~12-15 months once 
the commercial aspects and agreements 
are finalised. The Group is confident that the 
convergence of all elements in the launch 
of the integrated resort will unlock its full 
potential as a transformative development 
in South Asia and be a catalyst in creating 
tourism demand and foreign exchange 
earnings for Sri Lanka.
Colombo Hotels
Several major infrastructure projects are expected to be completed in the ensuing years in 
Colombo including the Port City Colombo project and the development of the East and West 
Terminals of the POC. Such notable developments will augur well for Colombo, particularly in 
attracting business travellers. The availability of dedicated conferencing and meeting facilities 
is also expected to bode well for tourism, particularly to attract tourism from the meetings, 
incentives, conferences and exhibitions (MICE) segment. The Colombo Hotels segment will be 
uniquely positioned to capitalise on this opportunity, particularly given the additional demand for 
MICE which is envisaged to be created with the launch of the ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’. 
Continued focus will be placed on prioritising the development of market-specific strategies aimed 
at catering to a diverse clientele. The properties will also leverage on its unparalleled F&B offering, 
by continuing to strengthen its dedicated offerings and flagship restaurants. 
Sri Lankan Resorts
Given the increasing traction Sri Lanka has received as a holiday destination and the unparalleled 
cultural and natural landscape of the country, the prospects for the Sri Lankan Resorts segment 
remain positive in the medium-term. The Group will continue its investments to expand the 
‘Cinnamon’ footprint across the island, although primarily in line with the Group’s asset-light 
investment strategy. 
In addition to the launch of ‘Cinnamon Red Kandy’, the Group will also place emphasis on 
monetising its significant land bank, especially in the Southern and Eastern coasts, thereby 
strengthening its project pipeline for the segment.
Hotel - ‘Cinnamon Life Colombo’
The construction of the two 
residential and office towers are 
complete, and handed over.
Operations in 
the third quarter 
of 2024/25
‘The Offices at 
Cinnamon Life’
Hotel - ‘Cinnamon 
Life Colombo’
Car Park
Entertainment 
and Retail
‘The Suites at 
Cinnamon Life’
‘The Residence at 
Cinnamon Life’
Note: The two residential apartment towers and the office tower 
of the ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’ are captured under the 
Property industry group review.
800 guest rooms
6 restaurants
exhibition hall 
5 bars
conference hall
3 pool bars
4 wellness and 
fitness centres
3 ballrooms
7 meeting rooms
2 lounges
4 pools
retail mall ~149,000 Sq. Ft of rentable space 
entertainment space ~160,000 Sq. Ft

152 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
OUTLOOK
Property
The tightened macroeconomic conditions including elevated interest rates and reduced 
discretionary incomes are likely to lead to a moderation in demand for real estate among 
homeowners. However, this could be partly offset by interest by a certain segment of investors, as 
real estate is traditionally seen as a long-term investment option to hedge against an inflationary 
environment. Considering the steep increases in prices last year, including the significant increase 
in the costs of construction, the pricing of any new development will be less competitive than 
projects currently in development. Residential apartment supply is likely to taper in the short to 
medium-term as the commencement of new projects is likely to slow down given the uncertain 
and volatile costs and market conditions. Given these factors, the business believes that demand 
for residential units will pick up in the medium-term. 
The business will continue to proactively assess the landscape to understand evolving trends 
to navigate through the ensuing year. Construction progress is envisaged to gain momentum 
from the slowdown witnessed last year aided by notable improvements in construction material 
availability and reduced restrictions on the external front.
Looking beyond the short-term impacts, the Group is of the view that the underlying 
fundamentals of the Property industry group remain promising.
Note: Given the near completion of construction works at ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’ 
and the focus and transition on the pre-operational phase of the project with the impending 
commencement of operations in the third quarter of 2024/25, the review and reporting of the hotel, 
retail and entertainment components of the project were transitioned to the Leisure industry group. 
The property development components of the project, namely, the two residential apartment towers 
and the commercial tower, continue to be recorded under the Property industry group.
Immediate to Short-Term
Construction activity at both the ‘TRI-ZEN’ and ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’ project sites 
is anticipated to maintain its momentum; continued re-planning and re-sequencing of the 
construction work in discussion with the contractor, is envisaged to aid this pace, ensuring the 
timely delivery of project milestones. However, challenges in labour mobilisation may continue 
to exert pressure on activity going forward with the issue of human capital flight and brain drain. 
The negative perceptions caused due to the economic, political and social crisis, which peaked in 
May 2022, has also caused challenges in terms of attracting the skilled and semi-skilled resources 
required for the finishing works of the project, although this has substantially reduced since then. 
Maldivian Resorts 
The performance of the Maldivian Resorts segment is expected to continue its upward trajectory, 
given ongoing infrastructure developments and the Government’s focus on developing the 
tourism industry. The Group remains confident of the ability to capitalise on the envisaged growth 
in tourism in the medium to long-term given the full complement of all four of its properties in full 
operation, as noted earlier. 
The segment will continue to work closely with key tourist market operators to better position and 
market its refurbished room inventory, whilst growing direct bookings through online platforms.
Hotel Management
The sector will continue to develop a pipeline of ‘Cinnamon’ events, aimed at developing Colombo 
as an entertainment hub in South Asia and reinforcing the ‘Cinnamon’ brand.
Destination Management
Emphasis will be placed on opportunities beyond the traditional travel intermediary space. The 
sector will also focus on improving process efficiency, scalability of operations and productivity of 
the business in catering to evolving customer needs through the use of its digital platforms.
The sales momentum for the residential 
apartments at the ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated 
Resort’ has been slow in line with the 
trends seen in the luxury segments in the 
city. Demand for residential units was also 
impacted by the introduction of value added 
tax (VAT) and the social security contribution 
levy (SSCL) which increased the price of 
apartments by ~17.5% effective 1 October 
2022. Despite this, a gradual pickup in sales 
momentum is envisaged, in tandem with 
an improvement in consumer and business 
confidence, given a notable slowdown in the 
condominium pipeline, with almost no new 
additions in the luxury segment. Further, the 
cost of constructing similar apartments today 
would be significantly higher given the steep 
depreciation of the Rupee and significant 
increases in construction related material and 
inputs in 2022/23, where existing units will be 
an attractive and valuable proposition. Whilst 
the high interest rate environment prevalent 
at the time may pose challenges for future 
sales, the inflationary pressures in the country 
may rekindle an interest in real estate sales 
given its widespread acceptance as a hedge 
against inflation.
‘TRI-ZEN’, in tandem with the industry, was 
compelled to increase its prices to offset the 
effects of the significant depreciation of the 
Rupee during the year under review. The 
increase in prices coupled with high interest 
rates and the reduction in disposable income 
may exert pressure on sales in the immediate-
term. However, the Rupee pricing model for 
apartment units at ‘TRI-ZEN’, which mitigates 
the risk of fluctuating exchange rates for 
buyers, is envisaged to be a key differentiator 
in driving sales going forward.
The Group is of the view that the existing land 
bank is adequate to sustain a steady pipeline 
of projects in the long-term, especially given 
the 9.38 acre property held under Vauxhall 
Land Developments (Private) Limited, and 
accordingly, will continue to focus on the 
monetisation of this extensive land bank. 
Given these circumstances, the Group 
does not foresee deployment of significant 
capital in the Property business. The Group 
has already gradually commenced the 
monetisation of the land bank in Digana, 
through various real estate products under 
Rajawella Holdings (Private) Limited, which 
include scenic land parcels, townhouses and 
villa developments. 

153
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
Residential apartment 
supply is likely to taper in 
the short to medium-term 
as the commencement of 
new projects is likely to slow 
down given the uncertain 
and volatile costs and market 
conditions.
The Group will continue to explore investment opportunities in the emerging suburban areas of 
Colombo to enter the industry group’s ‘Suburban Spaces’ segment, given the growing demand 
and potential in the suburban market on account of the high prices associated with residential 
apartments in Colombo.
On the real estate front, the Group will continue to assess the performance of the malls and 
engage with tenants to manage the downside risk as the performance of the malls mirror trends in 
consumer spending. It is noted that this is not as material in the context of the Group.
Medium to Long-Term
Given evolving business models, the Property business will assess the business landscape to 
understand possible lasting shifts in real estate demand including the various means by which 
properties can be built in tandem with such shifts and how properties would be priced, amongst 
others. Notwithstanding this and looking beyond the current macroeconomic landscape and the 
fiscal consolidation process, aspects such as increasing demand for commercial and residential 
spaces, an emerging middleclass demographic, a pipeline of public infrastructure projects, 
increasing urbanisation and connectivity are envisaged to drive growth in the property and real 
estate sectors.
Residential Real Estate
Prospects for the housing market in Colombo and the suburbs continue to be promising on the 
back of drivers such as the expanding middleclass demographic, increased commercial activity 
within Colombo and potential for increased GDP per capita. Recent investments and infrastructure 
spending channelled towards enhancing connectivity to the commercial centres of the country, 
will accelerate demand in these areas and outer regions.
With individuals increasingly moving towards urban areas as a result of improved connectivity and 
commercial activity, there is a robust and emerging market for affordable, multi-family housing 
solutions in close proximity to such commercial hubs.
The market for vertical and middle-income housing, in particular, is expected to experience 
significant growth given increasing land prices in Colombo and the high costs associated with 
the construction of single-family houses. The proportion of landed housing to apartments within 
Colombo is notably higher than its regional peers, indicating the need and potential for smart 
housing solutions at affordable price points, which however need to be within the limited land 
bank available in Colombo.
~60-70% of housing in regional mega cities, both luxury and mid-tier, are predominantly apartments to ensure 
maximum value creation within a limited land bank. However, apartment living in Colombo is ~10%, despite 
the scarcity of land, representing an opportunity within the market.
(%)
(%)
Greater
Colombo
Singapore
Thailand
(Central
Bangkok)
Thailand
(Outskirts)
Malaysia
(Central KL)
Malaysia
(Greater KL)
India
(Chennai)
India
(Bangalore)
0
20
40
60
80
100
Apartments
Landed houses
90
10
95
5
80
20
60
40
70
30
50
50
55
45
65
35
Source: Company Analysis
The Group will leverage on its high-brand 
equity and expertise in the industry to exploit 
such opportunities through projects such as 
‘TRI-ZEN’ as well as other projects under the 
‘Metropolitan’ and ‘Suburban’ segments. The 
Group expects to monetise its extensive land 
bank of prime real estate in Colombo and the 
suburbs to generate returns above the Group 
hurdle rates over the next 8-10 years given 
the scale and staggered development of the 
projects envisaged. To this end, the Group has 
earmarked a development at the 9.38-acre 
land held under Vauxhall Land Developments 
Limited primarily as metropolitan housing, 
complemented by other supporting 
commercial uses, which will be developed 
subject to market demand, construction 
landscape and supply dynamics. 
Commercial Real Estate
The opportunity for high-end ‘A-Grade’ office 
space is more pronounced as more global 
companies move to establish offices within 
the city, especially in the financial services and 
business process outsourcing (BPO) sectors. 
The transformation of Colombo as a financial 
and commercial hub through large-scale 
investment projects such as Port City Colombo 
coupled with an increase in business activity 
is envisaged to drive demand in this segment. 
The absence of proper infrastructure and 
management facilities of the current supply 
in comparison to modern workspaces, also 
presents an opportunity. However, it is pivotal 
to note that demand may be tempered in 
the short to medium-term given a decline 
in business confidence and slowdown in 
investment. Based on market opportunity, 
the industry group will continue to expand 
its commercial real estate offering at the right 
time at attractive price points.

154 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
Immediate to Short-Term
The prevailing macroeconomic environment, 
characterised by high inflation in comparison 
to 12 months ago and elevated interest rates 
coupled with tightened fiscal policy measures, 
has resulted in a reduction in disposable income 
and a moderation in consumer spending. Whilst 
it is premature to ascertain for how long this 
situation will prevail and the business is yet 
to witness a material effect from the current 
macroeconomic conditions, a continued 
deterioration in purchasing power may exert 
pressure on new business and collections in the 
short-term and impact consumer sentiment and 
income, inducing policy lapses. The immediate 
priority of the business would be to create agile 
responses, with the aim of mitigating the impact 
of the prevailing environment and rolling out 
initiatives aimed at leveraging on the anticipated 
economic recovery. To this end, the business aims 
to capitalise on digital capabilities built in the 
past to minimise the overall impact on business 
and ensure persistency of existing policies while 
maintaining the trend of new business. Emphasis 
will also be placed on expense control and cost 
optimisation. Notwithstanding these challenges, 
the business will continue to place emphasis 
on strengthening its position as the second 
largest new business producer in the industry. 
The Life Insurance business will also continue to 
strengthen its partnerships with leading banks 
with the aim of consolidating its status as one 
of the leading bancassurance providers in the 
country. 
Ensuring the concerns of employees and 
all stakeholders, including the agency force, 
are managed remain a key priority of the 
Insurance business.
The growth prospects of the financial services 
sector are closely tied to the state of the 
economy and the outcome of the DDR process 
and restructuring of foreign currency debt. 
Nations Trust Bank (NTB) will continue to closely 
monitor developments in this area, despite 
having a relatively low exposure to foreign 
currency debt in the industry. The Bank has 
conducted various stress-tested scenarios on 
its capital and liquidity position and remains 
confident in its ability to navigate any potential 
impacts. The Governor of the Central Bank of 
Sri Lanka (CBSL) has assured the stability in 
the domestic banking system and prioritising 
the protection of public deposits in any debt 
optimisation programme. This commitment 
provides additional encouragement and 
supports the overall confidence in the 
Financial Services
OUTLOOK
stability of the banking sector. The impact on the insurance industry through a DDR, if it happens, 
is somewhat less certain given the uncertainty surrounding the scale and breadth and if there will 
be any regulatory forbearance from the insurance regulator in terms of the impact on capital. Union 
Assurance PLC (UA) has evaluated multiple scenarios to assess the impact on liquidity, returns and 
capital and is confident of its ability to navigate through a DDR under normal stress-tested scenarios.
Whilst interest rates have declined quite materially, the interest rate environment is still elevated. 
The prevailing high interest rate regime and the fiscal consolidation process is likely to result 
in lacklustre credit growth on the back of reduced consumer spending which will impact loan 
growth as well as result in higher credit and market risk exposures. However, interest rates are likely 
to gradually reduce with better clarity on the DDR, as the risk premia attached to domestic debt 
as a result of this uncertainty will fall away. However, prolonged stresses may result in an increase 
in non-performing loans and impairments, although the Bank will continue to monitor such 
exposures. Accordingly, NTB will focus its efforts on building resilience and sustainability through 
prioritising credit quality, margin management, return focused lending and financial stability, 
whilst also continuing with the stringent cost management culture in place, particularly given 
inflationary pressures on its cost structure.
The Director of Bank Supervision of the CBSL has informed that in terms of a decision of the 
Monetary Board of the CBSL, the Group has been granted further time till 31 December 2022 to 
reduce its voting shareholding in NTB to 20%. Restriction on voting rights at 10% is applicable on 
the Group until the shareholding is reduced to 15%. JKH has requested for an extension of the 
deadline from the CBSL and is awaiting a formal response from the CBSL. The Group currently 
holds 29.48% of voting shares in NTB. 
Positive developments on the macroeconomic front, such as the securing of the IMF-EFF 
programme, coupled with increased optimism regarding the country’s growth potential, subject 
to ensuring that reforms are enacted as envisaged, is projected to yield positive effects on the 
performance of the stock market and investor sentiment. The Stock Broking business is well 
positioned to capitalise on this opportunity. 
Medium to Long-Term
Insurance
Despite the immediate impacts that may materialise on business performance on account of 
the current landscape, domestic conditions are envisaged to remain resilient and rebound in the 
medium-term in tandem with a revival of the economy and improvement in confidence and 
disposable income post the fiscal consolidation process. A significantly lower level of insurance 
penetration in comparison to regional markets, rising incomes from current levels and an 
ageing population are expected to fundamentally aid growth in the life insurance industry in Sri 
Lanka. The absence of a pension scheme for all citizens and the increasing prevalence of non-
communicable diseases is also expected to increase demand for long-term health and annuity 
solutions. UA is uniquely positioned to capitalise on the aforementioned opportunity, given its 
strong brand equity, diversified portfolio of products and digital know-how.
Sri Lanka has a relatively low level of insurance penetration in comparison to regional markets
(%)
(%)
Life Insurance Penetration in Regional Markets
Thailand
Malaysia
India
Vietnam
Indonesia
Sri Lanka
Bangladesh
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0
2020
2021
(25)
(15)
(5)
5
15
25
35
Source: Insurance penetration rate in Asia-Pacific by Atlas Magazine
RHS: Penetration Rate
LHS: Growth in the penetration rate from CY2020 to CY2021

155
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
The business will focus on diversifying 
its channels through an omni-channel 
distribution model and optimising 
bancassurance partnerships. To this end, 
although the agency channel is envisaged 
to be the key driver of revenue growth, 
the business will also focus on expanding 
the bancassurance and alternate channels, 
particularly through the development of 
innovative insurance products that meet the 
evolving needs of customers. UA will place 
emphasis on modular products designed 
to meet the specific requirements and new 
needs of the customers marketed though 
efficient and modern distribution channels.
The business will continue to revolutionise 
the insurance landscape in Sri Lanka through 
ongoing innovative investments and a clear 
digital roadmap that focuses on enhancing 
customer convenience, achieving operational 
excellence and improving distribution 
capabilities. Capitalising on the vast data 
reserve, emphasis will be placed on data 
analytics for better insight on evaluating the 
market, developing innovative products and 
devising growth strategies to fundamentally 
enhance decision-making capability.
The Insurance business will leverage on its 
new identity to attract a new generation of 
customers and augment its market presence. 
Continued focus will be placed on improving 
the employee value proposition. The business 
will also execute various strategies aimed at 
the continuous improvement of the agency 
force through skill development and the 
retention of the trained talent pool.
Banking
Looking beyond these ongoing challenges and the current crisis, the prospects for the Banking 
sector continue to be promising with NTB uniquely positioned to capitalise on this opportunity. 
Recent investments and focus towards strengthening its digital infrastructure, strong customer 
relationships and flexible solutions have placed NTB in a unique position to capture the 
opportunities presented by the industry’s ongoing digital transformation and strengthen its 
market positioning.
The Bank will further augment its digital infrastructure and processes to ensure better customer 
service, innovative solutions and efficiency in operations. The continued expansion and 
positioning of ‘FriMi’ as a lifestyle application and digital bank through the integration of various 
lifestyle solutions, new features and enhanced user interface, will remain an area of focus for the 
Bank in its digitisation drive.
Investment in upskilling the human capital of the business to thrive in an increasingly digitised 
industry, driving cost and process efficiencies by leveraging on past investments in automation, 
lean process re-engineering and activity-based costing measurement frameworks remain a priority 
in the medium-term.
Stockbroking
The Group expects a revival in foreign investor participation in tandem with the improvement of 
the macroeconomy, which will contribute to improved activity in the Colombo Stock Exchange 
(CSE). John Keells Stock Brokers (JKSB) will continue to cultivate foreign tie-ups in order to 
strengthen its presence amongst foreign institutional investors. The business will simultaneously 
work towards expanding its local client base aimed at local corporates, fund managers and high 
net-worth individuals.
Other, including Information Technology and Plantation Services
Information Technology
Immediate to Short-Term
The information technology and communication industry in Sri Lanka formulated a strategic plan 
to establish a USD 3 billion industry by CY2024, primarily through export revenue. The industry has 
also set a target of contributing USD 15 billion to the digital economy by CY2030.
The Group’s IT businesses continue to be well positioned to leverage on its strategic partnerships 
and capabilities to offer smart software solutions, especially in the areas of cloud computing, 
software as a service (SaaS) and automation, whilst concurrently exploiting potential opportunities 
for managed services, outsourcing and offshoring. The business will look to consolidate its position 
in the current markets.
The primary challenge for the Group’s IT businesses stemming from the ongoing macroeconomic 
environment is attrition and sourcing talent. Challenges in labour mobilisation is envisaged to be more 
pronounced going forward with the issue of human capital flight and brain drain, on the back of the 
current environment. Every effort will be made to attract and retain talent by offering opportunities for 
career development and enhanced scope of roles offering diverse learning and exposure.
Medium to Long-Term 
The business expects continued adoption of information technology solutions on the back of 
the higher adoption of digital solutions. To this end, the Group expects to see greater traction in 
the adoption of cloud-based solutions and services across industries, with emphasis on cloud, 
SaaS, automation, advanced analytics, application modernisation, cyber resilience and platform/
ecosystem thinking, among others. 
The growth prospects of 
the financial services sector 
are closely tied to the state 
of the economy and the 
outcome of the DDR process 
and restructuring of foreign 
currency debt. Nations Trust 
Bank (NTB) will continue to 
closely monitor developments 
in this area, despite having 
a relatively low exposure 
to foreign currency debt in 
the industry. The Bank has 
conducted various stress-tested 
scenarios on its capital and 
liquidity position and remains 
confident in its ability to 
navigate any potential impacts.

156 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
OUTLOOK
John Keells IT (JKIT) will leverage on its strategic partnerships with SAP, Microsoft and UiPath, to 
expand regionally to capture high-end accounts and increase business reach in Sri Lanka, the 
Middle East and North Africa (MENA) and the Asia Pacific (APAC). The business will also focus on 
delivering innovative consultative solutions and services across the five value stacks of ‘Strategy’, 
‘Core’, ‘Cloud’, ‘Platforms’ and ‘Ecosystems’, across multiple industries. JKIT will also place emphasis 
on building and expanding its capabilities and also look to expand its portfolio of offerings beyond 
core enterprise resource planning (ERP), enterprise applications, and managed development 
centres, thereby expanding its value proposition and competitive advantage.
The low penetration of business process management (BPM) services in Sri Lanka and the 
increasing demand for outsourced services, particularly non-core functions, is expected to augur 
well for the BPM industry in Sri Lanka. While the sourcing of talent in Sri Lanka is a challenge, BPMs 
overseas, particularly in developed markets, are finding it exponentially harder to find the requisite 
talent and this is driving strong demand for near-shoring and off-shoring of BPM operations. 
Infomate is uniquely positioned to capitalise on this opportunity, given its strong track record and 
business capability in catering to offshore clients from varying geographies and industries. Against 
this backdrop, the business is envisaged to continue its growth momentum, increasing its market 
share through the acquisition of new clients, while focusing on further diversifying its operations 
and improving the efficiency of its services through automation and digitisation of processes.
Plantation Services
Immediate to Short-Term
The prospects for the Plantation Services sector remain positive, given its export-oriented nature. 
The Sri Lanka Tea Board (SLTB) anticipates the overall tea production to reach 290 million kilograms 
in CY2023 [CY2022: 252 million kilograms], with tea exports projected at ~275 million kilograms.
Current signs indicate that the lagged effect of fertiliser shortages which materialised as a result 
of the ban imposed by the Government on the importation of agrochemicals in April 2021, has 
largely subsided and this will support an improvement in tea production as anticipated by the 
SLTB. The increase in tea production with expectations of improved green leaf quality is expected 
to improve volumes at the Colombo Tea Auction, which was largely constrained in recent months 
due to inadequate production. Potential headwinds include increases in production costs due to 
the industry’s dependence on labour and imported fertiliser and adverse weather conditions.
Tea prices, in USD terms, are envisaged to remain resilient in the short-term, despite the increase 
in tea supply. Demand for tea is envisaged to continue aided by organic growth and with the 
emergence of health-conscious consumers, given the various health benefits associated with tea, 
although demand may be impacted as a result of a global economic slowdown. In LKR terms, the 
prices would depend on the outlook for the economy and the Rupee.
Rising costs continue to be a significant issue for the business and the industry at large, impacting 
competitiveness regionally and globally. The business will continue to place emphasis on 
managing its working capital requirements on the back of tightening domestic macroeconomic 
conditions, particularly in terms of managing debt collection. The business will continue to ensure 
prudent cost management and productivity enhancing measures are in place to navigate any 
short-term impacts that may arise from the macroeconomic environment, although currently 
there are no disruptions to operations.
Medium to Long-Term
Global demand for tea is expected to gain traction on the back of an increase in tea drinking 
trends globally. Growing demand for low grown tea from traditional markets in the Middle East 
and Russia and new demand from emerging tea drinking countries such as Germany and the 
United States is expected to augur well for Sri Lanka. Adverse and increasingly unpredictable 
weather conditions on account of climate change and significant competition from other tea-
producing nations such as Kenya, India and China remain as key challenges for the business. The 
business will also continue to adopt increased regulations and controls on chemical usage in the 
tea plantation industry to meet maximum residue levels (MRLs).
The long-term priorities for JK PLC include:
	y
Adopting strategies to drive volume 
growth and working with producers to 
reduce the inconsistencies in volumes 
available for auctions.
	y
Further augmenting the strong financial 
and cost management strategies to 
improve performance levels.
	y
Optimising the warehousing operations, 
including increasing the use of solar 
energy, enhancing the racking systems, 
and improving the efficiency of loading 
and unloading operations. 
	y
Reducing the impact on the environment 
by converting all physical documents of 
the warehousing operations to electronic 
formats.
The long-term priorities for TSF:
	y
Placing emphasis on the quality of its 
products whilst also diversifying its 
manufacturing mix to meet market trends 
and mitigate risks.
	y
Cost optimisation and improving factory 
utilisation and the efficiency of the tea 
production process.
	y
Maintaining its reputation as a high-quality 
producer to the market, while exploring 
opportunities to cater to high-value market 
segments.
	y
Continual evaluation of opportunities 
arising from the emerging Chinese market 
for Ceylon orthodox black tea.
	y
Continue engagement with stakeholders, 
especially smallholder partners, for 
mutually beneficial outcomes.
The low penetration of 
business process management 
(BPM) services in Sri Lanka 
and the increasing demand 
for outsourced services, 
particularly non-core functions, 
is expected to augur well for 
the BPM industry in Sri Lanka. 
While the sourcing of talent 
in Sri Lanka is a challenge, 
BPMs overseas, particularly in 
developed markets, are finding 
it exponentially harder to find 
the requisite talent and this 
is driving strong demand for 
near-shoring and off-shoring of 
BPM operations.

157
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
STRATEGY, RESOURCE ALLOCATION AND 
PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT
The Strategy, Resource Allocation and Portfolio Management section 
aims to provide detailed insights into the manner in which investment 
decisions of the Group are made by analysing the performance of the 
overall portfolio, the overall strategic direction of the Group and the 
means by which capital is allocated for investments.
The unprecedented events over the past four years, commencing from the Easter Sunday attacks in April 2019, the Covid-19 pandemic and 
a severe domestic financial crisis have naturally impacted the performance of the portfolio. Nonetheless, the long-term strategic trajectory 
of the Group’s portfolio and the fruition of all investments made over the last few years has enabled the Group to withstand and navigate 
through these headwinds and position the portfolio to meet the long-term aspirations of the Group.
In managing the Group’s portfolio, the Group 
places emphasis on identifying and pursuing 
growth prospects that would help achieve  
the Group’s vision of ‘Building businesses that 
are leaders in the region’ and its medium to 
long-term objectives. In this light, businesses 
adopt a systematic approach to resource 
allocation and strategy formulation that is 
aligned with the core values, overall direction 
and strategies of the Group.
As evident from the past, the Group strives 
to constantly align its portfolio of businesses 
with the key growth sectors of the economy, 
both current and futuristic, and continuously 
endeavour to ensure that capital resources 
are efficiently employed in a manner that 
will expand the reach of the portfolio, ensure 
relevance, and give the ability to compete, 
both locally and internationally. The Group 
believes the current portfolio continues to 
serve that purpose and that its investments 
over the last few years, and planned 
investments, in these core areas reinforce this 
strategy.
The Group is of the view that the fundamentals and potential of the industries the Group operates 
in, remain unchanged, as the demand drivers underpinning the business would still be relevant in 
the medium to long-term, although there may be changes to operating models in some areas. The 
challenges which prevailed during the past few years have heightened the need for diversification, 
particularly across geographies and the need for offshore revenue streams considering the foreign 
currency challenges faced by the country, which were more pronounced over the past year. 
The Group believes that the balance of the composition of businesses of the core portfolio are 
appropriate given the diverse nature of revenue streams as well as the direct and indirect exposure 
to foreign currency denominated income streams through the Leisure, Ports and Shipping and 
Bunkering businesses. The Group’s capital allocation in the ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’ and 
the West Container Terminal project of the Port of Colombo will further augment the Group’s 
foreign currency income streams, in addition to being a catalyst in creating tourism demand and 
foreign exchange earnings for Sri Lanka. Both investments are expected to commence operations 
towards end-CY2024. 
Following are some of the key strategic initiatives pursued across Group businesses in furtherance 
of achieving its short, medium and long-term objectives.
	y
Creation of sustainable value is at the forefront when making operational decisions. Group-
wide strategy focuses on driving growth and value that is consistent, competitive, profitable 
and responsible. In this regard, businesses place emphasis on maximising value by augmenting 
revenue channels, increasing market share and exploring opportunities by fostering a culture of 
disruptive innovation and digitisation.
	y
Focus is placed on maintaining flexible cost structures to ensure optimisation of costs and 
thereby driving efficiencies and profit maximisation. The Group’s emphasis on cost optimisation, 
prudence, and agility has continued to assist businesses in enduring the challenging periods 
witnessed over the past few years, in particular. 
	y
Given that continued brand development is essential in fostering customer loyalty, enhancing 
business image and establishing a more customer-centric identity, Group strategy also focuses 
on increasing brand equity through a comprehensive understanding of its target market, value 
proposition, and internal alignment to the brand promise and vision.
	y
Group strategy also revolves around recruiting, developing and retaining a talented pool of 
employees. Over the years, the Group has attracted the best and the brightest talent towards 
building a strong team that reflects the diversity of the customers the Group serves. The 
Group engages and encourages employees to perform to the best of their abilities through 
a performance-oriented culture founded on ethical and transparent behaviour, which, in 
turn, promotes sustainable and profitable growth. In executing all plans and strategies of the 
business units, talent management is scrutinised closely and given significant prominence.
In managing the Group’s 
portfolio, the Group places 
emphasis on identifying and 
pursuing growth prospects that 
would help achieve the Group’s 
vision of ‘Building businesses 
that are leaders in the region’ 
and its medium to long-term 
objectives.

158 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
STRATEGY, RESOURCE ALLOCATION AND 
PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT
	y
Another aspect of Group strategy focuses on re-engineering, process improvement, enterprise 
risk management and quality management in ensuring that business processes and 
governance checks across the Group are efficient, agile, robust and in line with international 
best practice. The Group’s digitisation drive aimed at identifying emerging and current 
disruptive business trends and developing the digital quotient (DQ) of individuals and 
businesses is also believed to increase productivity and efficiency through the employment of 
digital technologies and disruptive business models.
	y
Group strategy places significant emphasis on minimising environmental impacts through 
impact analysis and stakeholder engagement. Strategies are governed by a comprehensive 
environmental management system and Group-wide sustainability goals which were renewed 
during the year under review. All operational decisions consider the impact on the Group’s 
sustainability goals and ensure that all possible actions are being taken towards reducing waste 
and adverse environmental impacts.
	y
Group’s diversity, equity and inclusion (DE&I) strategy revolves around advancing a culture 
of equitable inclusion amongst its workforce and value chain and ensuring that the dignity 
and diversity of all employees and value chain partners are respected. The ONE JKH initiative 
is envisaged to aid the Group in attracting and retaining the best talent in Sri Lanka and 
productivity throughout Group value chains and communities.
	y
Focus is also placed on ensuring that communities develop relevant life skills, and that the 
external environment is sustainable under the corporate social responsibility (CSR) mandate of 
‘Empowering the Nation for Tomorrow’. The CSR initiatives of the Group are centrally planned 
and implemented by the John Keells Foundation.
REGULAR ASSESSMENT OF RISK AND REWARD
In measuring business performance and continuity of operations, all verticals and businesses 
within each industry group are regularly assessed on key dimensions such as customer orientation, 
supplier concentration, bargaining power of both customers and suppliers, joint venture (JV) partner 
affiliations and dependence, cyclicality, regulatory structure, performance against the industry and Sri 
Lankan economy, procedural, regulatory or technological factors that obstruct or restrict operations 
and the current and potential competitive landscape, among others. 
The capital structure for new ventures is stress-tested under various scenarios, which often results 
in the execution of proactive measures, particularly in managing potential foreign exchange risks 
during both the development and operating phases. Further, ongoing projects are regularly tested 
and evaluated in partnership with independent and recognised parties to ensure clear, impartial 
judgment on matters relating to capital structure, economic implications and key risks.
JKH’S HURDLE RATE 
The present hurdle rate of JKH is at 15%, which 
is a function of the weighted average cost 
of capital (WACC). The WACC is derived from 
the Group’s cost of equity, cost of debt, target 
capital structure, tax rates and the value creation 
premium required over and above the WACC. 
The adoption of a contractionary monetary 
policy by the Central Bank of Sri Lanka to 
address the macroeconomic crisis has resulted 
in a substantial rise in the cost of debt, with 
interest rates rising from ~6% to ~24% by 
March 2023. Whilst Sri Lanka has commenced 
discussions with creditor nations on seeking 
a sustainable solution to Sri Lanka’s debt 
obligations, there is still uncertainty as to 
the need for a complete domestic debt 
restructuring (DDR) and, even if so, the form, 
structure and breadth of the same. The risk 
premia currently attached to domestic debt 
as a result of this uncertainty should fall 
away once there is clarity on the DDR with 
expectations that interest rates will ease 
significantly thereon.  
The ONE JKH initiative is 
envisaged to aid the Group 
in attracting and retaining 
the best talent in Sri Lanka 
and productivity throughout 
Group value chains and 
communities.
Financial Filter
Cornerstone of the 
decision criteria based 
on the JKH hurdle rate 
Growth Filter
Evaluates the industry 
attractiveness and 
growth potential based 
on the industry life cycle
Strategic Fit
Evaluates the long-term competitive 
advantage of a business/industry by 
closely evaluating the competitive 
forces, specific industry/business 
risks, ability to control value drivers 
and the competencies and critical 
success factors inherent to the Group
Complexity Filter
Considers factors such 
as sustainability, senior 
management time and the 
risk to brand image and 
reputation in conjunction 
with the anticipated returns
Given the Holding Company’s diversified interests, resource allocation and portfolio management are imperative in creating value to all 
stakeholders through evaluation of the Group’s fundamentals which are cantered on the forms of Capital. Whilst the Group is presented with 
opportunities in diverse industries, it continues to follow its four-step, structured methodology indicated in the ensuing section, in evaluating its 
portfolio and thereby guiding investment and divestment decisions.
The Project Risk Assessment Committee, a sub-committee of the Board, provides the Board with increased visibility of large-scale new 
investments and assists the Board to assess risks associated with significant investments, particularly at the initial stages of discussions, by 
providing feedback and suggestions in relation to mitigating risks and structuring arrangements. Intervention is mandatory as per the committee 
scope, if the investment cost exceeds a board mandated threshold.

159
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
During the year the Group assessed the need 
to revise the hurdle rate given the significant 
increase in the cost of debt and equity, 
amongst other factors, which would naturally 
affect the WACC. Considering the significant 
volatility and uncertainty, the hurdle rate was 
not revised at this juncture on the basis that it 
is a long-term target, and any revision would 
be warranted only if the macroeconomic 
factors are expected to be sustained over the 
long-term. Given the multitude of fiscal and 
monetary policy reforms which have already 
been implemented and the benefits of which 
are already seen through the stabilisation of 
the economy, the Group will assess the need 
for revision of the hurdle rate, particularly once 
there is clarity on the outcome of a DDR and 
the related risk premia attached to the cost of 
borrowing. The Group will continue to monitor 
the evolution of rates and in determining if 
an adjustment to the long-term hurdle rate is 
warranted.  
Although the hurdle rate of the Group was 
not revised given the above rationale, all 
investments were evaluated under various 
costs of capital so as to ensure robust and 
prudent decision making. It is also noteworthy 
that, although this hurdle rate is utilised as 
the initial benchmark rate in evaluating the 
feasibility and opportunity in all projects 
of the Group, project specific modifiers are 
also used in order to get a holistic view of 
the project under consideration. As such, 
a country specific risk modifier would be 
applied for investments with a high proportion 
of foreign currency investment costs and 
operational cash flows. To this end, the 
modifier would use a project specific cost 
of debt and foreign currency denominated 
equity return benchmark commensurate 
with the investment, which in turn would be 
comparatively analysed against projects with 
similar risk profiles.
CONCEPTUALISING PORTFOLIO PERFORMANCE 
The Group aims to strike a balance between optimising immediate portfolio returns against returns 
in the future. As such, emphasis is placed on both return generating capabilities of the business 
against its capital employed and the earnings potential of the business or project. This is particularly 
relevant with projects such as ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’ which has a long gestation period 
which impacts the short-term portfolio returns during the development phase of the project. While 
long-term investments such as ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’ as well as the West Container 
Terminal (WCT-1) project have a gestation and ramp up period to start contributing positively 
towards return on capital employed (ROCE), the transformational impact such investments can 
have on Group performance once fully operational can translate to a ‘re-rating’ of the portfolio. 
The Group is conscious of the quantum of capital deployed to businesses, and, to this end, places 
a strong emphasis on evaluating projects in a manner which optimises capital efficiency, especially 
in capital intensive businesses such as Leisure. In order to manage the effective quantum of capital 
deployed, the Group will continue to explore investment structuring options such as asset-light 
investment models for future hotel projects and monetising the land bank of the Group in such a 
manner that generates a return from the strategic parcels of land held.
Being a portfolio of businesses, the Group has benefited from contributions from different 
businesses at varying points of time based on their growth cycle and correlation with overall 
economic growth in the country. Over the last few years, the Group has witnessed a shift in the 
composition of its earnings with a greater contribution from higher ROCE earning industry groups 
such as Consumer Foods, Retail, and Financial Services. Looking beyond the short-term impacts 
of the recent and ongoing challenges, the conscious and planned strategies of driving growth in 
these industry groups are expected to continue contributing towards an improvement in the ROCE 
for the Group, as seen in recent performance, whilst concurrently driving absolute earnings growth.
INSIGHTS
Given the unprecedented macroeconomic challenges which prevailed during the year, 
particularly in the first two quarters, the Group continued to ensure that strategies and 
mechanisms are in place to afford the Group the flexibility and agility to fund its investments 
in an optimal manner whilst providing additional support to the Group’s liquidity requirements 
using the available depth of resources. 
During the year under review, the Group raised funds through the issuance of convertible 
debentures amounting to Rs.27.06 billion, by way of a private placement of LKR-denominated 
securities to HWIC Asia Fund (HWIC), a subsidiary of Fairfax Financial Holdings Limited, Canada. 
The debentures can be converted commencing from 12 February 2024 to 12 August 2025, and 
matures thereafter if not converted. 
From a portfolio management perspective, the increase in equity and liabilities as a result of 
this transaction, which translates to a higher capital employed, will have a negative impact 
on ROCE in the immediate-term, although improvement of ROCE is envisaged post the 
deployment/use of such funds into projects meeting the hurdle rate. While there is an impact 
on ROCE, the significance of the transaction is that the Group raised equity capital in foreign 
currency from offshore sources which fortified the Group’s balance sheet when significant 
market disruptions and scarcity of foreign currency prevailed at the time of raising these funds. 
The Group received and held these funds in foreign currency which enabled the Group to 
navigate the foreign exchange crisis by supporting the Group investment pipeline. 
Refer Financial and Manufactured Capital Review for further details on the accounting treatment of the 
convertible debentures – page 86.
Considering the significant 
volatility and uncertainty, the 
hurdle rate was not revised at 
this juncture on the basis that 
it is a long-term target, and any 
revision would be warranted 
only if the macroeconomic 
factors are expected to be 
sustained over the long-term.

160 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
STRATEGY, RESOURCE ALLOCATION AND 
PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT
LONG-TERM ASPIRATIONS 
The Group continually endeavours to deliver value to the Group’s multitude of stakeholders, 
particularly shareholders. To this end, the Group has in place long-term financial goals which 
are continually monitored to ensure that the Group is moving progressively towards its vision 
and objectives, although recent performance has been impacted, and, to an extent distorted, 
by the effects of the intensive capital expenditure cycle of the Group and four consecutive years 
of disruption, from the Easter Sunday attacks in 2019, the Covid-19 pandemic and the domestic 
macroeconomic crisis thereafter. The Group believes these targets are still relevant in the medium- 
to long-term and is confident of reaching these targets in such a time horizon.
Indicator (%)
Goal
Achievement
31 March 
2023
31 March 
2022
31 March 
2021
EBIT growth
 >20 
 59.6 
 166.7 
 (41.3)
EPS growth (fully diluted)
 >20 
 (13.2)
 318.0 
 (49.3)
Cash EPS growth (fully diluted)
 >20 
 (19.4)
 111.6 
 20.2 
Long-term return on capital employed (ROCE)
15
 5.5 
 4.5 
 2.7 
Long-term return on equity (ROE)
18
 5.6 
 7.5 
 7.5 
Net debt (cash) to equity (with leases)
50
 45.4 
 33.7 
 33.4 
Net debt (cash) to equity (without leases)
50
 35.9 
 23.5 
 27.8 
PERFORMANCE OF THE PORTFOLIO
Capital employed has significantly increased 
as a result of the ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated 
Resort’ project and its gestation period, whilst 
the convertible debenture issuance to HWIC 
Asia Fund, the long-term financing facility 
obtained from IFC in 2020/21 and the private 
placement to ADB has also contributed to 
a notable increase in the capital base, all of 
which have negative impacts on ROCE. These 
strategic choices, however, are catalysts for 
future growth and risk mitigation given the 
unprecedented and sustained economic 
and financial stress in the country; while the 
Group is cognisant of the short-term effects 
on performance, priority has always been 
given to striking a balance between short-
term performance and the accretive value 
creation in the long-term. The Group is of the 
view that strengthening the capital base has 
enabled it to navigate the economic crisis and 
emerge stronger considering the investments 
in building its businesses and bringing 
transformational investments closer to reality. 
These decisions will result in long-term value 
creation, although, admittedly, it has resulted in 
negative impacts in the short-term.
As seen in the portfolio graph in the ensuing 
section, a significant portion of capital is 
deployed in Leisure, particularly ‘Cinnamon 
Life Integrated Resort’. Whilst these have 
resulted in a significant ‘drag’ on the ROCE of 
the Group, the commencement of operations 
at ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’ will 
contribute towards a positive ROCE especially 
given the anticipated boost in tourist arrivals to 
the country.
INSIGHTS
Managing the Group’s foreign currency exposure
From a portfolio management point of view, managing the Group’s exposure to foreign 
currency fluctuations is of utmost priority. The steep depreciation of the Rupee witnessed in 
March 2022 due to the previously pegged exchange rate not being reflective of market rates 
had the following implications on the Group’s financial position, although the Rupee has now 
stabilised and appreciated by ~10% as a result of fiscal and monetary policy measures:
	y
Gross debt recorded a significant increase primarily, given the translation impact on the 
USD 175 million long-term loan facility at the Holding Company and the USD 225 million 
long-term loan facility at Waterfront Properties (Private) Limited.
	y
The translation impact on USD 175 million long-term loan facility is negated at a net debt 
level as the Holding Company maintained a net foreign currency cash position during 
the year. The foreign currency cash holdings include the funds earmarked for the equity 
infusions of the ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’ project and the funds raised for the 
Group’s investment pipeline via the debt drawdown of the long-term loan facility from the 
International Finance Corporation (IFC), the private placement of ordinary shares to Asian 
Development Bank (ADB) as well as the convertible debentures to HWIC.
	y
At a Group level, the translation risk is also largely hedged ‘naturally’ as a result of the 
conscious strategy of matching liabilities against foreign currency denominated assets and 
revenue streams, to the extent possible.
	y
It is pertinent to note that the pressures on the exchange rate exposure arising from the 
‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’ project is mitigated to a large extent as the functional 
currency of Waterfront Properties (Private) Limited, its project company, is US Dollars. 
Accordingly, the risk is largely hedged ‘naturally’ given the expectation of foreign currency 
linked revenue streams. Similarly, at present, there is no foreign exchange translation risk on 
the IFC loan since the cash is retained in foreign currency at the Holding Company.
	y
The Group will continue to manage its foreign currency portfolio and investment pipeline 
optimally, by matching liabilities against corresponding assets, where possible, particularly 
given the ongoing constraints in the domestic foreign currency markets.
The Group is of the view that 
strengthening the capital base 
has enabled it to navigate 
the economic crisis and 
emerge stronger considering 
the investments in building 
its businesses and bringing 
transformational investments 
closer to reality.

161
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
0
(30)
40
240
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
180
200
240
220
260
280
300
320
340
360
380
400
420
440
460
480
ROCE (%)
Hotel Management - 234.9
Transportation - 35.2
Financial Services - 33.4
Plantation Services - 32.1
Information Technology - 23.5
Retail - 17.8
Consumer Foods - 14.5
Maldivian Resorts - 4.7
Colombo Hotels - 0.2
Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort - (0.2)
Property (excl. Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort) - (0.9)
Hurdle Rate - 15.0% 
Sri Lankan Resorts - (2.9)
Destination Management - (28.2)
Capital
employed
(Rs.billion)
Transportation
ROCE
(%)
=
EBIT 
margin 
(%)
x
Asset 
turnover
x
Capital 
structure 
leverage
2022/23
35.2
11.0
2.72
1.18
2021/22
2.2
1.3
1.40
1.16
The significant increase in the ROCE of the Transportation industry 
group is attributable to an improvement in margins of the Group’s Ports 
and Shipping business, South Asia Gateway Terminals (SAGT) and the 
Group’s Bunkering business, Lanka Marine Services (LMS). LMS recorded 
a significant increase in revenue and profitability driven by higher 
margins on account of the steep increase in global fuel oil prices during 
the first half of the year, as well as higher volumes for the year. Despite 
the decline in overall volumes at the Port of Colombo, the profitability 
at SAGT recorded an increase as a result of higher revenue from ancillary 
operations. Both businesses benefited significantly on account of 
the steep depreciation of the Rupee. Asset turnover also recorded an 
increase in tandem with the notable increase in revenue across the 
industry group. 
If the recurring impacts as discussed under the Financial Performance 
section are adjusted for, the adjusted ROCE of the Transportation 
industry group would be at 39.8% for 2022/23 and 21.8% for 2021/22. 
West Container Terminal (WCT-1)
During the year, Rs.2.72 billion (~USD 7.5 million) of cash equity was 
infused by the Group as its equity contribution to Colombo West 
International Terminal (Private) Limited, the project company of  
WCT-1, to fund the development costs of the project. Cumulative equity 
infusions to the project stood at Rs.5.58 billion (~USD 17.7 million). 
Consumer Foods
ROCE
(%)
=
EBIT 
margin 
(%)
x
Asset 
turnover
x
Capital 
structure 
leverage
2022/23
14.5
7.1
1.46
1.41
2021/22
20.8
12.0
1.19
1.46
Although asset turnover increased in lieu of a notable increase in 
revenue across all the businesses, EBIT margins deteriorated during 
the year as a result of rising raw material costs and operating costs 
which impacted the ROCE of the industry group. Despite the decline in 
volumes, the higher revenue was in lieu of price increases undertaken 
across the portfolio to mitigate margin pressure.  
Retail
ROCE
(%)
=
EBIT 
margin 
(%)
x
Asset 
turnover
x
Capital 
structure 
leverage
2022/23
17.8
5.3
2.09
1.61
2021/22
17.6
5.4
1.88
1.73
The improvement in the ROCE of the Retail industry group was driven by 
the Supermarket business. The revenue of the Supermarket business was 
supported by the substantial price increases undertaken by suppliers on 
account of inflation, thereby resulting in a higher asset turnover ratio.
The Supermarket business recorded an increase in debt on account of 
funding working capital requirements during the year.

162 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
STRATEGY, RESOURCE ALLOCATION AND 
PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT
Leisure
ROCE
(%)
=
EBIT 
margin 
(%)
x
Asset 
turnover
x
Capital 
structure 
leverage
2022/23
1.2
6.6
0.16
1.06
2021/22
(0.1)
(0.2)
0.17
1.10
The ROCE of the Leisure industry group recorded an increase primarily 
on account of the strong performance in the Maldivian Resorts segment 
which contributed to a positive EBIT during the year, and to a lesser 
extent, the Colombo Hotels segment. 
Given the near completion of construction works at ‘Cinnamon Life 
Integrated Resort’ and the focus and transition on the pre-operational 
phase of the project with the impending commencement of operations 
in the third quarter of 2024/25, the assets pertaining to the hotel, retail 
and entertainment components of the project were transferred to 
the Leisure industry group. This resulted in a notable increase in the 
assets of the industry group, which is captured under property, plant 
and equipment as work-in-progress costs. The property development 
components of the project, namely, the two residential apartment 
towers and the commercial tower continue to be recorded under the 
Property industry group. 
In addition, as part of the transition of the components of the ‘Cinnamon 
Life Integrated Resort’ project, the syndicate term loan of USD 225 million 
was recorded under the Leisure industry group, commencing from the 
third quarter of 2022/23. As a result, there was a substantial increase in 
the amount of debt attributable to the Leisure industry group.
Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort
During the year, Rs.80.91 billion of cash equity was infused into 
‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’ to finance the development costs of 
the project. 
As at 31 March 2023, the cumulative figures for equity infused stood at 
Rs.152.45 billion. The cumulative equity investment at the ‘Cinnamon 
Life Integrated Resort’ includes the land transferred by JKH and its 
subsidiaries at the inception of the project. Note that all project related 
costs including interest costs, unless explicitly mentioned, are capitalised 
in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRS/LKAS).
In June 2022, Waterfront Properties (Private) Limited repaid the USD 100 
million six-month bridging loan facility which was obtained in December 
2021 as a part of the refinancing package of the USD 395 million 
syndicated term loan facility. The USD 100 million facility was obtained 
to align the refinancing with the original maturity date of July 2022. The 
loan facility now outstanding at WPL is the USD 225 million syndicated 
term loan, maturing in December 2026.
Property
ROCE
(%)
=
EBIT 
margin 
(%)
x
Asset 
turnover
x
Capital 
structure 
leverage
2022/23
(0.2)
(6.7)
0.02
1.03
2021/22
1.3
6.9
0.18
1.08
The decline in the ROCE of the Property industry group is attributable to 
the residential and commercial segments of ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated 
Resort’, where the comparative year of 2021/22 included the revenue 
recognition of all units sold prior to the completion of the residential 
towers and commercial units. Accordingly, profitability in 2021/22 
included Rs.6.30 billion from the handover of the residential apartment 
units and commercial floors. An inventory of 161 units remains to be sold. 
Given the macroeconomic disruptions, ‘TRI-ZEN’ recorded a slowdown 
in sales whilst profitability was further exacerbated by an escalation 
in construction costs due to the steep depreciation of the Rupee and 
the rise in global commodity prices and freight costs. While the cost 
escalation impact is allocated to the profit recognition on the project, 
there was an adjustment in the current year to reflect the cost impact 
on the sales already recognised in the previous financial years, which 
affected the current year’s profitability somewhat materially. 
Given that the review and reporting of the hotel, retail and entertainment 
components of the project were transitioned to the Leisure industry 
group, as discussed, only the property development components of the 
project, namely, the two residential apartment towers and the commercial 
tower will be recorded under the Property industry group.
Financial Services
ROCE
(%)
=
EBIT 
margin 
(%)
x
Asset 
turnover
x
Capital 
structure 
leverage
2022/23
33.4
24.3
0.35
3.97
2021/22
26.6
20.7
0.32
4.00
The improvement in ROCE was driven by higher EBIT margins in the 
Insurance and Banking businesses. The Insurance business was driven 
by a growth in gross written premiums whilst the Banking business 
recorded an increase in net interest margins, supported by stringent cost 
management initiatives. 
Other, including Information Technology and  
Plantation Services
ROCE
(%)
=
EBIT 
margin 
(%)
x
Asset 
turnover
x
Capital 
structure 
leverage
2022/23
6.0
93.6
0.06
1.07
2021/22
5.2
131.0
0.04
1.05
ROCE of the Information Technology sector increased to 23.5% [2021/22: 
18.6%] due to an improvement in EBIT margins. The sector recorded 
strong growth in profitability on account of onboarding new clients and 
expanding the scope of services.

163
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
The notable improvement of the ROCE in the Plantation Services sector 
to 32.1% [2021/22: 9.8%] was on account of a significant increase in 
profitability and margins, driven by improved tea prices. 
The ROCE of the Holding Company declined marginally on account of 
an increase in capital employed on account of the issue of convertible 
debentures to HWIC Asia Fund in August 2022. However, profitability was 
supported by an increase in interest income driven by higher interest 
rates and the translation impact on foreign currency interest income, 
which cushioned the impact of the increase in capital employed, to an 
extent.
Group Return on Capital Employed
ROCE
(%)
=
EBIT 
margin 
(%)
x
Asset 
turnover
x
Capital 
structure 
leverage
2022/23
5.5
10.8
0.43
1.20
2021/22
4.5
8.7
0.39
1.33
Group Return on Equity
ROE
(%)
=
Return 
on assets 
(%)
x
Common 
earnings 
leverage
x
Equity
multiplier
2022/23
5.6
2.6
0.96
2.23
2021/22
7.5
3.3
0.99
2.33
PORTFOLIO MOVEMENTS
Portfolio movements over the past five years are illustrated below.
FY19
FY20
FY21
FY22
FY23
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
Transportation
Consumer Foods
Retail
Leisure*
Property*
Financial Services
Other, incl. Information
Technology and Plantation Services 
Capital employed
(Rs.billion)
INSIGHTS
The ROCE of the Other, including Information Technology and 
Plantation Services industry group has been depressed in the recent 
years primarily on account of the capital raising at the Holding 
Company. The foreign currency cash holdings include the funds 
earmarked for the equity infusions of the ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated 
Resort’ project and the funds raised for the Group’s investment 
pipeline via the issue of convertible debentures to HWIC Asia Fund, 
the debt drawdown from the IFC term loan facility and the private 
placement of ordinary shares to ADB.
Whilst the cash balance of the Group is currently generating returns 
below the Group’s hurdle rate exerting pressure on Group ROCE, the 
presence of adequate cash reserves enables the Group to manage 
its liquidity requirements better, particularly in navigating operations 
and investments in the event of macroeconomic disruptions. 
The Group will continue to focus on ensuring this position is 
preserved with a focus on further enhancing its funding lines 
proactively ahead of any future requirements.
*During the year under review, the assets pertaining to the hotel, retail and entertainment components of ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’ were transferred to the Leisure industry 
group from the Property industry group.

164 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
STRATEGY, RESOURCE ALLOCATION AND 
PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT
Significant Movements of the Portfolio and Capital Employed
Investments
Invested Rs.10.35 billion in 
Waterfront Properties (Private) 
Limited.
Invested Rs.8.42 billion in 
Waterfront Properties (Private) 
Limited.
Invested Rs.13.55 billion in 
Waterfront Properties (Private) 
Limited.
Invested Rs.80.91 billion in 
Waterfront Properties (Private) 
Limited.
Invested Rs.95.4 million in 
Nations Trust Bank PLC to 
purchase 1.15 million non-
voting shares.
Invested Rs.5.98 billion in JK 
Land (Private) Limited, increasing 
the shareholding in Vauxhall 
Land Developments (Private) 
Limited to 86.7% from 60.0%. 
Committed to infuse a further 
Rs.2.99 billion by 24 September 
2021 to fully acquire Vauxhall 
Land Developments (Private) 
Limited.
Invested Rs.1.94 billion in JK 
Land (Private) Limited. Further 
to this, JK Land acquired the 
remaining 13.3% equity stake 
in Vauxhall Land Developments 
(Private) Limited for a 
consideration of Rs.2.99 billion.
Invested Rs.2.72 billion in 
Colombo West International 
Container Terminal (Private) 
Limited.
KHL invested Rs.466 million 
in Ceylon Holiday Resorts 
Limited for the refurbishment 
of ‘Cinnamon Bentota Beach’ 
Bentota.
Invested Rs.215 million in 
preference shares in Saffron 
Aviation (Private) Limited.
Invested Rs.2.86 billion in 
Colombo West International 
Container Terminal (Private) 
Limited.
KHL invested Rs.145 million 
in Indra Hotels and Resorts 
Kandy (Private) Limited, for the 
preliminary construction work of 
‘Cinnamon Red Kandy’.
KHL further invested Rs.105 
million in Indra Hotels and 
Resorts Kandy (Private) Limited, 
for the construction work of 
‘Cinnamon Red Kandy’.
Invested Rs.74 million in 
preference shares in Saffron 
Aviation (Private) Limited.
Invested Rs.16 million in 
Inchcape Mackinnon Mackenzie 
Shipping (Private) Limited.
Divestments
Divested 98.88 perches of land 
in Tickell Road, Colombo 8, for a 
consideration of Rs.1.14 billion.
Divested 2.66 acres of land held 
under KHL in Nuwara Eliya, for a 
consideration of Rs.362 million.
2019/20
2020/21
2021/22
2022/23

165
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
SHARE INFORMATION
This section entails an overview of the market conditions 
which prevailed during the year under review, both globally 
and locally. The section concludes with a discussion on JKH 
share-related information.
Total number of shares in issue as at 31/03/2023
1,384,916,632
Public shareholding as at 31/03/2023
98.51%
Stock symbol 
JKH.N0000
Newswire Codes of the JKH Share
 
Bloomberg
JKH.SL
Dow Jones
P.JKH
Reuters
JKH.CM
Global Depositary Receipts (GDR) balance
1,320,942
GLOBAL AND LOCAL MARKET REVIEW
Global equity markets witnessed notable turbulence in CY2022, on the 
back of geopolitical tensions such as Russia’s invasion of Ukraine and 
concerns over inflation which compelled most major central banks to 
adopt contractionary monetary policies. Accordingly, the S&P 500 noted 
its lowest annual performance since the 2008 financial crisis recording a 
decline of 18.1%. The Nasdaq Composite and Dow Jones Industrial Average 
indices declined by 32.4%, and 6.9% respectively. The MSCI World Index 
followed a similar trend, recording a loss of 21.8%, while Japan’s Nikkei 
225 dropped by 9.4%, marking its first yearly decline in four years. China’s 
Shanghai Composite Index decreased by 15.1%, and Europe’s STOXX 600 
Index fell by 12.8%, representing its lowest performance since 2018.
Seismic Shifts in Asset Classes 
Seismic Shifts in Asset Classes 
(2022 YTD performance: %, end-of-week)
(2022 YTD performance: %, end-of-week)
Equities
Dollar Index
Brent Crude Oil
Gold
Chinese Yuan
HY Bond Index
10Y U.S. Treasury
JPM EMBI
IG Corporate Bond Index
Copper
Japanese Yen
S&P 500
Nikkei 225
MSCI AC World
EURO STOXX
MSCI Emerging Markets
10Y Italian Gov. Bond
NYSE FANG+
Bitcoin
Bonds
Currencies
Commodities
(70.0) (60.0) (50.0) (40.0) (30.0) (20.0) (10.0)
0
10.0
9.1
1.6
(1.8)
(8.6)
(12.5)
(14.7)
(15.3)
(15.3)
(15.5)
(15.7)
(17.9)
(19.4)
(19.7)
(20.1)
(22.3)
(26.5)
(37.6)
(64.0)
Source: Refinitiv Datastream | Reuters, 20 Dec 2022 | By Pasit Kongkunakornkul
The All Share Price Index (ASPI) and the Standard and Poor’s Sri Lanka 20 
(S&P SL20) Index of the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) followed a similar 
trend to global equities in CY2022. Accordingly, as of the end of CY2022, 
the ASPI and S&P SL20 closed at 8,490 and 2,636 points, representing 
losses of 30.6% and 37.7%, respectively, for the calendar year. Both 
indices underperformed its regional peers due to the domestic 
macroeconomic crisis and volatility on the social and political landscape, 
which contributed to dampened investor sentiment and outflows of 
foreign funds. 
However, the CSE witnessed a gradual reversal in trends from the 
beginning of CY2023, in tandem with better stability and clarity on 
the macroeconomic landscape which included the implementation 
of certain much needed reforms and the successful securing of the 
~USD 3 billion bailout package from the International Monetary Fund. 
The market also recorded an encouraging increase in foreign inflows. 
In this light, the ASPI closed at 9,301 points as at 31 March 2023. During 
2022/23, total net foreign inflows were recorded at Rs.17.82 billion 
during the year compared to a total net foreign outflow of Rs.36.65 
billion last year. Market price to earnings ratio (PER) decreased to 5.0 
times in 2022/23 [2021/22: 8.8 times].
31 March 
2023
31 March 
2022
%
Overall CSE market capitalisation 
(Rs.billion)
3,903.54 
3,826.50
2
Net foreign inflows/(outflows) 
(Rs.billion)
17.82
(36.65)
149
Average daily turnover 
(Rs.million)
2,087.08
4,754.93
(56)
Regional Market Performance
Regional Market Performance
(%)
(%)
CY21
Sri Lanka - ASPI
Bangladesh - DSE
China - Shanghai Composite
Hong Kong - HSI
India - NSEI
Japan - TOPIX
Singapore - FTSE
Thailand - SET
Vietnam - FVTT
(60)
(40)
(20)
0
20
40
60
80
100
CY22
80.5
(30.6)
25.1
(8.1)
(14.1)
(15.4)
4.8
(15.1)
23.4
(5.1)
5.9
10.4
9.8
4.1
14.3
0.7
31.1
(44.2)

166 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
Although further headway needs to be made on the state-owned 
enterprise (SOE) reforms and normalisation of the macroeconomic 
landscape, which may present short-term volatility in the equity market, 
the Group remains confident in Sri Lanka’s growth prospects in the 
medium to long-term, given the significant steps that have been taken 
in the recent past to achieve economic stability. 
Refer the Outlook section for a detailed discussion - Page 135. 
Key Regulatory Highlights for the Year
	y
Further to the enactment of the new Securities and Exchange 
Commission (SEC) Act No. 19 of 2021 and the aim of facilitating 
complex instruments while protecting non-sophisticated 
investors, the SEC released new rules for market institutions and 
intermediaries, and a code for collective investment schemes. 
This covers aspects such as licensing procedures, minimum 
financial and infrastructure requirements, compliance and 
internal controls. 
	y
CSE enacted a change in the S&P SL20 index constituents at the 
2022 year-end rebalance in line with the S&P Dow Jones Indices.
	y
The CSE Listing Rules were amended to facilitate the listing and 
trading of green bonds and perpetual debt securities.
	y
Effective 1 October 2022, withholding tax (WHT) was  
re-introduced at 15% for dividends paid after 1 January 2023. 
Indices
31 March
Value
2023
2022
%
MSCI
All Country World Index 
646.76
711.56
(9)
All Country World Index 
excluding USA
298.68
323.59
(8)
World (23 Developed markets)
2,791.44
3,053.07
(9)
USA
3,904.80
4,338.85
(10)
Europe
1,902.85
1,927.37
(1)
Europe, Australasia and Far East
2,092.60
2,181.63
(4)
Emerging Markets 
990.28
1,141.79
(13)
Frontier Markets
483.76
608.04
(20)
Peer
SENSEX
58,991.52
58,568.51
1
JKSE
6,805.28
7,071.44
(4)
STI
3,258.90
3,408.52
(4)
KLSE 
1,429.48
1,587.36
(10)
Local
ASPI
9,301.09
8,845.98
5
S&P SL20
2,682.83
3,031.16
(11)
Market Information of the Ordinary Shares of the Company
Q4
Q3
Q2
Q1
2022/23
2021/22
Share Information
High (Rs.)
146.00
150.00
157.00
170.00
170.00
167.50
Low (Rs.)
134.50
127.50
118.50
116.25
116.25
129.00
Close (Rs.)
140.00
135.25
137.25
122.00
140.00
145.00
Dividends paid per share (Rs.)
0.50
1.00
-
0.50
2.00
1.50
Trading Statistics
Number of transactions
7,244
9,092
15,048
4,797
36,181
65,116
Number of shares traded (‘000)
61,743
45,324
64,801
12,713
184,582
272,599
Value of all shares traded (Rs.million)
8,717
6,152
8,304
1,632
24,805
40,522
Average daily turnover (Rs.million)
141
103
128
33
105
169
Percentage of total market turnover (%)
7.4
5.1
4.3
2.3
5.0
3.5
Market capitalisation (Rs.million)
193,888
187,310
190,080
168,960
193,888
200,813
Percentage of total market capitalisation (%)
5.0
3.4
4.5
4.9
5.0
5.2
Note: The number of shares in issue remained static at 1,385 million shares in 2022/23.
SHARE INFORMATION

167
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
JKH SHARE
The graph below illustrates that the JKH share is currently at a 
decade-low, barring the period where the equity market was 
impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic in mid-CY2020. 
JKH Share Price
JKH Share Price
(Rs.)
(Rs.)
1-Apr-13
1-Apr-14
1-Apr-15
1-Apr-16
1-Apr-18
1-Apr-17
1-Apr-19
1-Apr-20
1-Apr-21
1-Apr-22
1-Apr-23
50
100
150
200
250
0
30
60
90
120
150
JKH Share Performance vs ASPI (indexed)
JKH Share Performance vs ASPI (indexed)
(Index)
(Index)
No. of shares (million)
No. of shares (million)
JKH shares traded 
Jun-22
May-22
Apr-22
Jul-22
Aug-22
Sep-22
Oct-22
Nov-22
Jan-23
Dec-22
Feb-23
Mar-23
ASPI (indexed) 
JKH (indexed)
0
50
100
150
200
The JKH share decreased by 3.4% to Rs.140.00 as at 31 March 2023 from 
Rs.145.00 as at 31 March 2022.
JKH High/Low Share Prices per Month
JKH High/Low Share Prices per Month
(Rs.)
(Rs.)
Jul-22
Jun-22
May-22
Mar-22
Apr-22
Aug-22
Sep-22
Oct-22
Nov-22
Dec-22
Jan-23
Feb-23
Mar-23
100
110
120
130
140
150
160
170
High
Low
JKH 30-day moving average
JKH Beta
The beta of the JKH share as of 31 March 2023 stood at 0.61. The beta is 
calculated based on the daily JKH share movements against movements 
of the ASPI for the five-year period commencing 2 April 2018 to 31 
March 2023. The compounded annual growth rate (CAGR) of the JKH 
share over the five-year period stood at a negative 2.5%, compared to 
that of the market which stood at 7.6% for the same period.
ISSUED SHARE CAPITAL
The number of shares in issue by the Company remained unchanged 
during the year under review at 1,384,916,632 shares as at 31 March 
2023. The Global Depository Receipts (GDRs) balance in ordinary share 
equivalent remained at 1,320,942 shares.
Private Placement of Convertible Debentures to HWIC 
Asia Fund
As announced to the CSE, the Company concluded the issuance of 
convertible debentures amounting to Rs.27.06 billion on 12 August 2022, 
by way of a private placement of LKR denominated securities to HWIC Asia 
Fund (HWIC), a subsidiary of Fairfax Financial Holdings Limited, Canada. 
Accordingly, 208,125,000 Sri Lankan Rupee denominated unrated, unlisted, 
unsecured convertible debentures were issued to HWIC at an issue price 
of Rs.130 per debenture. 
The debentures have a maturity period of three years and will accrue 
interest at a rate of 3% per annum. The date of maturity of the 
debentures is 12 August 2025 with HWIC having the option to convert 
each debenture to one new ordinary share of the Company during the 
conversion period from 12 February 2024 to 12 August 2025.
Based on the above, the maximum number of ordinary shares that 
would potentially be issued under the conversion of the Debentures 
would be 208,125,000 ordinary shares. If all debentures are converted, 
this will result in a post-conversion dilution of 13.06% based on the 
number of ordinary shares outstanding as at March 2023.
As outlined in the Circular to the Shareholders dated 6 July 2022, the 
proceeds from the issue are envisaged to be used to support the 
Company’s investment and financing obligations, particularly in terms 
of managing the foreign currency linked funding requirements in 
investments such as the West Container Terminal in the Port of Colombo. 
Private Placement of Ordinary Shares with attached Options 
to the Asian Development Bank (ADB)
As detailed in the 2021/22 Annual Report, in November 2021, the 
Company raised funds through a private placement of ordinary shares 
for a maximum cumulative amount of the LKR equivalent of USD 80 
million to ADB in two phases. In January 2022, the first phase of the 
above transaction was completed whereby JKH issued 65,042,006 
ordinary shares at Rs.154.50 per share to ADB for a consideration of the 
LKR equivalent of USD 50 million.

168 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
Additionally, in terms of the second phase, the Company also issued 
non-tradable/non-transferable options, entitling ADB to subscribe 
for additional 39,025,204 new ordinary shares of the Company, for 
an investment amount of up to a maximum of the LKR equivalent of 
USD 30 million. The option exercise price was anchored to the volume 
weighted average price of the Company’s ordinary shares as quoted on 
the CSE during the 90 calendar days ending immediately prior to the 
option exercise date, subject to the floor and cap price of Rs.165.00 and 
Rs.200.00, respectively. The options which were exercisable between 19 
October 2022 and 18 January 2023, expired on 19 January 2023, without 
being exercised.
As outlined in the Circular to the Shareholders dated 29 November 
2021, the funds raised through this were utilised in line with the use of 
proceeds.
DIVIDEND
Despite the unprecedented operating conditions which prevailed 
during the year under review, the Company paid two interim dividends 
of Rs.1.00 and Rs.0.50 per share in December 2022 and March 2023, 
respectively.
Whilst the Group recorded a growth in core operating profits despite 
the substantial EBITDA recognition of Rs.6.30 billion from the revenue 
of the handover of the residential apartment units and commercial 
floors at ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’ in 2021/22, compared to 
the absence of corresponding recognition in the current year, given 
the macroeconomic environment which could result in stresses on 
operating performance and cash flows and the pipeline of strategic 
investments such as ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’ and the WCT-1 
project, the final dividend for 2022/23 was maintained at Rs.0.50 per 
share.
Accordingly, the dividend declared for 2022/23 is Rs.2.00 per share 
[2021/22: Rs.1.50 per share].
The Company payout ratio for 2022/23 is 19% with a total dividend 
outlay of Rs.2.77 billion [2021/22: Rs.2.01 billion]. The Group payout ratio 
was at 15% for 2022/23 [2021/22: 10%].
The Group will follow its dividend policy which corresponds with 
growth in profits whilst ensuring that the Company maintains 
adequate funds to support business continuity and fund its pipeline 
of strategic investments, particularly given the prevailing challenging 
macroeconomic environment.
Distributions to Shareholders and Payout Ratio
Distributions to Shareholders and Payout Ratio
(Rs.billion)
(Rs.billion)
(%)
(%)
FY19
FY20
FY21
FY22
FY23
0
2
4
6
8
10
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
Dividend paid
Group dividend payout (%)
8.2
54
4.6
49
2.0
41
2.0
10
2.8
15
EARNINGS PER SHARE
The fully diluted earnings per share (EPS) for the financial year decreased 
by 13.2% to Rs.13.12 per share [2021/22: Rs.15.12] due to a decrease in 
total profit attributable to equity holders. On a recurring earnings basis, the 
diluted EPS decreased to Rs.9.63 in the current financial year from Rs.15.27 
recorded in the previous financial year, thus representing a 37.0% decrease.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN
The total shareholder return (TSR) of the JKH share stood at a negative 
2.4% for the period under review, while the total return index of the S&P 
SL20 recorded a return of a negative 2.8%. On a cumulative basis, over 
a five-year holding period, the share inclusive of dividends, posted an 
annualised total return of 0.3%.
(30)
(10)
10
30
50
(%)
FY19
FY20
FY21
FY22
FY23
Total Shareholder Return 
(23.8)
6.5
(18.8)
30
4.1
5.5
(2.4)
1.6
(1.3)
Annual TSR
Cumulative TSR
Note: Includes the proportionate impact arising from the Share Repurchase in 2018/19.
MARKET CAPITALISATION AND ENTERPRISE VALUE
The market capitalisation of the Company decreased by 3.4% to Rs.193.89 
billion as at 31 March 2023 [2021/22: Rs.200.81 billion] driven by a decline 
in the Company share price. As at the financial year end, JKH represented 
5.0% of the total market capitalisation of the CSE [2021/22: 5.2%]. 
The enterprise value of the Group increased by 14.6% to Rs.357.61 billion 
as at 31 March 2023 [2021/22: Rs.311.95 billion]. 
As at 31 March 2023, JKH had a float-adjusted market capitalisation of 
Rs.191.00 billion and 15,099 public shareholders. Thus, the Company is 
compliant under option 1 of the minimum threshold requirements for 
the Main Board of the CSE, as per the directive issued in terms of section 
13 (c) and 13 (cc) of the Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri 
Lanka Act No.36 of 1987, circulated on 16 November 2016.
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
Market capitalisation
Enterprise value
(Rs.billion)
FY19
FY20
FY21
FY22
FY23
Market Capitalisation and Enterprise Value
206
210
152
186
196
245
194
340
201
312
SHARE INFORMATION

169
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
Summary Indicators
2022/23
2021/22
2020/21
Market capitalisation 
(Rs.billion)
193.9
200.8
196.0
Enterprise value 
(Rs.billion)
357.6
312.0
244.7
EV/EBITDA 
(times)
8.0
10.7
15.7
Diluted EPS 
(Rs.)
13.1
15.1
3.6
PER 
(diluted)
10.7
9.6
41.0
Price to book 
(times)
0.6
0.6
0.9
Price/cash earnings 
(times)
4.6
4.7
13.2
Dividend yield 
(%)
1.4
1.0
1.0
Group dividend 
payout ratio 
(%)
15.2
10.0
41.5
Net assets per share
(Rs.)
248.6
224.8
171.4
TSR 
(%)
(2.4)
(1.3)
30.0
Price Earnings Ratio
2022/23
2021/22
JKH
10.7
9.9
CSE
5.0
8.8
SENSEX
22.2
24.8
KLSE
16.4
16.2
JCI
11.8
16.7
STI
12.6
24.8
Composition of Shareholders
31 March 2023
31 March 2022
Number of 
shareholders
Number of 
shares
%
Number of 
shareholders
Number of 
shares
%
Non-Resident
Institutions
73
515,773,768
 37 
75
492,439,810
36
Individuals
250
10,240,144
 1 
237
6,975,141
1
Total Non-Resident
323
526,013,912
 38 
312
499,414,951
36
Resident
Institutions
720
477,354,563
 34 
731
465,904,849
34
Individuals*
14,061
381,548,157
 28 
13,414
419,596,832
30
Total Resident
14,781
858,902,720
 62 
14,145
885,501,681
64
Total
15,104
1,384,916,632
100
14,457
1,384,916,632
100
*Includes directors, spouses and connected parties
Distribution of Shareholders
31 March 2023
31 March 2022
Number of 
shareholders
%
Number of 
shares held
%
Number of 
shareholders
%
Number of 
shares held
%
Less than or equal to 1,000
10,028
66
2,139,812
0
9,494
66
2,077,696
0
1,001 to 10,000
3,406
23
12,421,138
1
3,376
23
12,204,165
1
10,001 to 100,000
1,297
9
40,535,936
3
1,208
8
38,368,241
3
100,001 to 1,000,000
267
2
79,734,447
6
274
2
87,756,601
6
Over 1,000,001
106
1
1,250,085,299
90
105
1
1,244,509,929
90
Total
15,104
100
1,384,916,632
100
14,457
100
1,384,916,632
100

170 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
Director’s Shareholding
31 March 2023
31 March 2022
K Balendra*
 10,914,400 
 10,914,400 
G Cooray
 208,587 
 208,587 
N Fonseka
 - 
 100,000 
A Cabraal
 250,137 
 150,137 
P Perera
 - 
 - 
H Wijayasuriya
 - 
 - 
S Coorey
 - 
 - 
A Omar**
 - 
 - 
*Includes shareholding of spouse.
**Retired on 27 June 2022.
Executive Director’s Shareholding in Group Companies
Number of shares as at 
31 March 2023
K Balendra* 
G Cooray
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC
802,320
-
Asian Hotels and Properties PLC
-
10,600
Trans Asia Hotels PLC
-
1,200
*Includes shareholding of spouse.
Top Twenty Shareholders of the Company
31 March 2023
31 March 2022
Number of 
shares
%
Number of 
shares
%
Mr S E Captain
134,044,705
9.68
134,220,895
9.69
Melstacorp PLC
128,917,111
9.31
128,917,111
9.31
HWIC Asia Fund
119,200,760
8.61
119,200,760
8.61
Paints and General Industries Limited
100,717,931
7.27
140,437,428
10.14
Asian Development Bank
65,042,006
4.70
65,042,006
4.70
Citigroup Global Markets Limited Agency Trading Prop Securities A/C
61,904,939
4.47
61,904,939
4.47
Schroder International Selection Fund
44,418,290
3.21
41,974,590
3.03
CIC Holdings PLC
35,338,032
2.55
-
-
Aberdeen Standard Asia Focus PLC
33,398,572
2.41
28,123,572
2.03
Norges Bank Account 2
31,901,605
2.30
31,901,605
2.30
Sri Lanka Insurance Corporation Limited - Life Fund
21,846,511
1.58
12,270,665
0.89
Mr Kandiah Balendra
19,511,476
1.41
19,511,476
1.41
Employees Trust Fund Board
18,499,897
1.34
18,499,897
1.34
Mrs C S De Fonseka
17,606,991
1.27
17,472,745
1.26
Edgbaston Asian Equity Trust
17,520,023
1.27
15,142,109
1.09
Fidelity Fund - Pacific
15,244,082
1.10
17,880,904
1.29
Mrs S A J De Fonseka
15,204,230
1.10
15,204,230
1.10
Polypak Secco Limited
14,937,924
1.08
-
-
Chemanex PLC
13,105,475
0.95
12,605,234
0.91
Sunsuper Superannuation Fund
11,587,196
0.84
-
-
SHARE INFORMATION
Options Available to Executive Directors under the Employee Share Option Scheme
Year of expiry
Krishan Balendra
Gihan Cooray
Granted 
shares 
(adjusted)*
Immediately 
vested
To be vested
Granted 
shares 
(adjusted)*
Immediately 
vested
To be vested
2023/24
 450,000 
 450,000 
 - 
 430,000 
 430,000 
 - 
2024/25
 450,000 
 337,500 
 112,500 
 430,000 
 322,500 
 107,500 
2025/26
 450,000 
 225,000 
 225,000 
 430,000 
 215,000 
 215,000 
2026/27
 450,000 
 112,500 
 337,500 
 430,000 
 107,500 
 322,500 
2027/28
 450,000 
 - 
 450,000 
 412,000 
 - 
 412,000 
Total
 2,250,000 
 1,125,000 
 1,125,000 
 2,132,000 
 1,075,000 
 1,057,000 
* Adjusted for share subdivisions.

171
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
Employee Share Option Plan as at 31 March 2023
Date of 
grant
Employee 
category
Shares 
granted
Expiry 
date
Option 
grant 
price (Rs.)
Shares 
adjusted2
Exercised
Cancelled2
Expired
Outstanding
Due to 
resignations
Due to 
performance
Total
Vested
Unvested
End/
current 
price2 (Rs.)
PLAN 9
03.07.2017
10,402,204
02.07.2022
173.25
10,402,204
-
1,419,827
200,337
8,782,040
-
173.25
Award 23 
GEC1
2,865,000
3,215,000
-
-
3,215,000
-
Other 
Executives
7,537,204
7,187,204
1,419,827
200,337
5,567,040
-
PLAN 9
22.06.2018
10,381,395
21.06.2023
 154.10 
10,381,395
27,798
1,607,680
211,417
8,534,500
8,534,500
-
 154.10 
Award 34
GEC1
2,615,000
3,110,000
-
-
3,110,000
3,110,000
-
Other 
Executives
7,766,395
7,271,395
27,798
1,607,680
211,417
5,424,500
5,424,500
-
PLAN 10
01.07.2019
6,568,000
30.06.2024
 136.97 
6,568,000
77,000
446,000
122,250
5,922,750
4,717,750
1,205,000
 136.97 
Award 15
GEC1
2,460,000
2,590,000
-
-
2,590,000
2,117,500
472,500
Other 
Executives
4,108,000
3,978,000
77,000
446,000
122,250
3,332,750
2,600,250
732,500
PLAN 10
19.10.2020
6,557,100
30.06.2025
 132.86 
6,557,100
91,175
245,200
-
6,220,725
3,455,950
2,764,775
 132.86 
Award 26
GEC1
2,230,000
2,430,000
-
-
2,430,000
1,390,000
1,040,000
Other 
Executives
4,327,100
4,127,100
91,175
245,200
3,790,725
2,065,950
1,724,775
PLAN 10
16.08.2021
6,585,800
30.06.2026
 136.64 
6,585,800
-
198,500
-
6,387,300
1,891,900
4,495,400
 136.64 
Award 37
GEC1
2,205,000
2,205,000
-
-
2,205,000
551,250
1,653,750
Other 
Executives
4,380,800
4,380,800
198,500
4,182,300
1,340,650
2,841,650
PLAN 11
26.07.2022
6,906,600
30.06.2027
 121.91 
6,906,600
-
61,000
-
6,845,600
111,000
6,734,600
 121.91 
Award 1
GEC*
2,115,000
2,115,000
-
-
2,115,000
-
2,115,000
Other 
Executives
4,791,600
4,791,600
61,000
4,730,600
111,000
4,619,600
PLAN 11
26.01.2023
1,369,700
25.01.2028
 137.86 
1,369,700
-
-
-
1,369,700
-
1,369,700
 137.86 
Award 2
Other 
Executives
1,369,700
1,369,700
-
-
1,369,700
-
1,369,700
Total
48,770,799
195,973
3,978,207
534,004
8,782,040
35,280,575
18,711,100
16,569,475
1 	 GEC comprises of the Executive Directors and Presidents
2 	 Adjusted for Bonus Issues/Right Issues/Sub-divisions
3 	 Plan 9 (Award 3) - 100% of the options had vested as at 31 March 2023
4 	 Plan 10 (Award 1) - 75% of the options had vested as at 31 March 2023
5 	 Plan 10 (Award 2) - 50% of the options had vested as at 31 March 2023
6 	 Plan 10 (Award 3) - 25% of the options had vested as at 31 March 2023
7 	 Plan 11 (Award 1) - None of the options had vested as at 31 March 2023 with the exception of retirees
8 	 Plan 11 (Award 2) - None of the options had vested as at 31 March 2023

172 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
SHARE INFORMATION
Share Capital
Year ended 31 March
Number of shares in 
issue (million)
2012
 844.12 
2013
 857.24 
2014
 990.29 
2015
 997.49 
2016
 1,189.40 
2017
 1,387.47 
2018
 1,387.53 
2019
 1,318.17 
2020
 1,318.55 
2021
 1,319.66 
2022
1,384.92
2023
1,384.92
Dividends
Year ended 31 March
DPS* (Rs.)
Dividends 
(Rs.000)
2013
3.50
2,982,421
2014
3.50
3,266,718
2015
3.50
3,475,947
2016
7.00
8,037,790
2017
5.50
7,280,497
2018
6.00
8,324,983
2019
5.00
8,186,450
2020
2.50
4,614,133
2021
2.00
1,978,317
2022
1.50
2,012,193
2023
2.00
2,769,833
*Dividend declared per share.
2022/23 Financial Calendar
Date
Three months ended 30 June 2022
27 July 2022
Six months ended 30 September 2022
4 November 2022
Nine months ended 31 December 2022
31 January 2023
Annual Report 2022/23
23 May 2023
44th Annual General Meeting
30 June 2023
First interim dividend paid on
6 December 2022
Second interim dividend paid on
1 March 2023
Final dividend proposed to be paid on
On or before 
21 June 2023
2023/24 Financial Calendar
Date
Three months ended 30 June 2023
On or before 25 July 2023
Six months ended 30 September 2023
On or before 7 November 2023
Nine months ended 31 December 2023
On or before 30 January 2024
Annual Report 2023/24
On or before 30 May 2024
45th Annual General Meeting
On or before 30 June 2024
GDR History (in terms of ordinary shares, million)
Year ended  
31 March
Opening 
balance
Issued*
Converted/ 
repurchased
Closing 
balance
2012
0.95
0.32
0.08
1.19
2013
1.19
-
0.06
1.13
2014
1.13
-
0.01
1.12
2015
1.12
-
-
1.12
2016
1.12
-
-
1.12
2017
1.12
0.2
-
1.32
2018
1.32
-
-
1.32
2019
1.32
-
-
1.32
2020
1.32
-
-
1.32
2021
1.32
-
-
1.32
2022
1.32
-
-
1.32
2023
1.32
-
-
1.32
1 GDR is equivalent to 2 ordinary shares.
* First issued in 1994/95 and subsequently increased along with bonus issues and subdivision 
of shares.
History of Scrip Issues, Rights and Repurchases
Year 
ended
31 March
Issue
Basis
Number 
of shares 
(million)
Ex-date
Cash 
inflow/
(outflow) 
(Rs.billion)
2012
Subdivision
4:3
210
30-Jun-2011
N/A
2013
Rights @ Rs.175*
2:13
132
3-Oct-2013
23.1
2016
Subdivision
7:8
143
30-Jun-2015
N/A
2017
Subdivision
7:8
170
30-Jun-2016
N/A
2019
Repurchase @ 
Rs.160
1:20
69
11-Jan-2019
 (11.1)
2022
Private Placement
N/A
65
21-Jan-2022
10.0
* Unadjusted prices.

173
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
GOVERNANCE
ADV NCING
175  Corporate Governance Commentary    198  Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality 
202  Risks, Opportunities and Internal Controls

174 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
In furtherance of Group's sustainability and digitisation 
efforts, coupled with the need to strike a balance 
between the principles of conciseness and completeness 
in Integrated Reporting, the Group has used a variety 
of reporting formats to meet diverse stakeholder 
requirements. Whilst the section that ensues discusses the 
key highlights for the year under review and applicable 
disclosures, the Corporate Website entails a detailed and 
comprehensive discussion of the below sections.
Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality
Provides an overview of the Group's approach and framework towards sustainable 
development and long-term value creation.
Risks, Opportunities and Internal Controls
Includes a discussion of the key risks faced by the Group. The section also entails an overview 
of the Group's Enterprise Risk Management framework.
Corporate Governance Commentary
Entails a discussion of the Group's corporate governance framework, which endeavours 
to create an enabling environment for growth in a structured, predictable and sustainable 
manner.

175
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMENTARY
Whilst the section that ensues discusses the key 
highlights for the year under review and the 
mandatory disclosures required under various 
regulatory frameworks, the Corporate Website entails 
a detailed and comprehensive discussion of the 
Group’s Corporate Governance Framework.
www.keells.com/esg/#governance for detailed 
Corporate Governance Commentary. 
The Group’s robust and comprehensive corporate 
governance framework, endeavours to create an 
enabling environment for growth in a structured, 
sustainable and transparent manner. The Group’s 
corporate governance philosophy is institutionalised 
across all its business units, and it is this philosophy that 
has continuously created value for all its stakeholders, 
notwithstanding the external environment and 
macroeconomic conditions. 
The Group’s governance framework is supported by 
internal policies, processes and structures aimed at 
meeting, and, where possible, exceeding accepted 
best practice, in addition to the ‘triggers’ which ensure 
compliance with mandatory regulatory requirements. 
This framework is regularly reviewed and updated to 
reflect global best practice, evolving regulations, and 
dynamic stakeholder needs, while maintaining its 
foundational principles of accountability, participation, 
integrity and transparency. 
KEY GOVERNANCE HIGHLIGHTS 
	y
During the year, the Group conducted the ‘Great 
Place To Work’ (GPTW) survey among all its 
employees. GPTW survey is conducted by the 
Great Place To Work Institute and seeks to provide a 
comprehensive insight into how employees perceive 
the culture, structure, and management of an 
organisation, among others. The feedback received 
from this exercise will be used towards crafting an 
inclusive and more cohesive workplace, which will in 
turn drive productivity across the Group. 
	y
As a part of the Group’s ongoing efforts towards 
increasing emphasis on environmental, social 
and governance (ESG) aspects, the Group, in 
liaison with an international third-party consulting 
firm, embarked on re-formulating the Group’s 
ESG framework, setting revised Group-wide ESG 
ambitions and translating such ambitions to ESG 
related targets. This exercise is expected to ensure 
enhanced alignment between the different ESG 
strategies of the Group’s business units, culminating 
in a holistic ESG strategy and roadmap for the Group. 
In furtherance of Group’s sustainability and digitisation efforts, coupled 
with the need to strike a balance between the principles of conciseness 
and completeness in Integrated Reporting, the Group has used a variety 
of reporting formats to meet diverse stakeholder requirements. 
COMPLIANCE SUMMARY 
Regulatory Benchmarks
Key Internal Policies
	y
Articles of Association of the Company 
	y
Recruitment and selection policies 
	y
Learning and development policies 
	y
Policies on equal opportunities,  
non-discrimination, career 
management and promotions 
	y
Rewards and recognition policy 
	y
Leave, flexi-hours, tele-working and 
agile working policies including 
health and safety enhancements and 
protocols 
	y
Code of conduct which also includes 
policies on gifts, entertainment, 
facilitation payments, proprietary and 
confidential information 
	y
Policies on diversity, equity and 
inclusion, including a gender policy
	y
Policy against sexual harassment 
	y
Policies on forced, compulsory and 
child labour and child protection 
	y
Disciplinary procedure 
	y
Policy on grievance handling 
	y
Policies on anti-fraud, anti-corruption 
and anti-money laundering and 
countering the financing of terrorism 
	y
Policy on communications and 
ethical advertising 
	y
Ombudsperson policy 
	y
Group accounting procedures and 
policies 
	y
Policies on enterprise risk management 
	y
Policies on fund management and 
foreign exchange risk mitigation 
	y
IT policies and procedures, including 
data protection, classification and 
security 
	y
Group sustainability, environmental 
and economic policies 
	y
Whistleblower policy 
	y
Policies on energy, emissions, water 
and waste management 
	y
Policies on products and services
	y
Policy on bidding for contracts, 
including on Government contracts
Standard / Principle / Code
Adherence 
The Companies Act No.7 of 2007 including 
regulations 
Mandatory provisions - fully 
compliant 
Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE), 
including circulars
Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka 
(SEC) Act No. 19 of 2021, including rules, regulations, 
directives and circulars 
Code of Best Practices on Related Party Transactions 
(2013) advocated by the Securities and Exchange 
Commission of Sri Lanka (SEC) 
Code of Best Practice on Corporate Governance 
(2013) jointly advocated by the SEC and the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka) 
Voluntary provisions - fully 
compliant 
Code of Best Practice on Corporate Governance 
(2017) issued by CA Sri Lanka 
Voluntary provisions - 
compliant with the 2017 Code 
to the extent of business 
exigency and as required by 
the John Keells Group 

176 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMENTARY
	y
Select Group policies related to ESG areas were further enhanced in line with best practice 
advocated by internationally reputed institutions such as the Asian Development Bank and 
International Finance Corporation, particularly given their focus on development impacts and 
positive externalities.
	y
JKH was ranked first in the Transparency in Corporate Reporting (TRAC) Assessment by 
Transparency International Sri Lanka (TISL) for the third consecutive year, with a 100% score 
for transparency in disclosure practices. This ranking is based on an assessment of corporate 
disclosure practices among the top 100 companies listed on the Colombo Stock Exchange, under 
four different thematic areas crucial to fighting and preventing corruption:
•	
reporting on anti-corruption programmes,
•	
transparency in company holdings, 
•	
disclosure of key financial information in domestic operations and
•	
disclosure on gender and non-discrimination policies. 
	y
In November 2022, the Group recorded the Policy for bidding on contracts and tenders, which 
entails a standardised set of guidelines for bidding, including to those of local and foreign 
Governments and related bodies. 
Policy for bidding on contracts and tenders
	y
The Policy for bidding on contracts and tenders, is a step towards promoting 
organisational transparency and consistent organisational behaviour. Whilst Group 
companies are required to adhere to local statutory provisions and Government 
procurement guidelines and meet the requirements stipulated in the request for 
proposal/guidance notes specified in the contracts/tenders, the policy also requires the 
bidding entity within the Group to adhere to all Group policies including the Code of 
Conduct, anti-corruption, anti-bribery and anti-money laundering and gift policies. 
	y
This policy applies to all Group companies and, as applicable, to consultants, agents, 
representatives, and supply chain partners. 
	y
During the year under review, the Group further strengthened its Policy on gifts and 
entertainment to include a reporting and monitoring mechanism for all gifts or benefits received 
or given. Accordingly, all gifts or benefits of a value above USD 50 per gift if given or received, 
based on business exigencies, are monitored to ensure conformance with the Group’s policies. 
Such exceptions are required to be reported to the respective Finance Head of the business, 
where, in turn, these are collated and monitored centrally.
	y
The following key initiatives and targets were rolled-out, in furtherance of the Group’s emphasis 
on creating an inclusive, diverse and equitable work environment; 
•	
The Group introduced an equal 100 days of maternity and paternity days as parental leave 
at the birth or adoption of a child. In this regard, while the Group will continue to offer 100 
days of maternity leave on the birth or adoption of a child, the five days of paternity leave was 
enhanced to 100 days, ensuring equity, and recognising the importance of both parents’ roles 
in early childcare.
•	
As noted in previous Annual Reports, the Group has set a goal of increasing women 
participation in its employee cadre up to 40% by the end of 2025/26. In this regard, female 
participation as at the end of the year stood at 33% [2021/22: 33%].
•	
The Group also adopted gender-neutral terminology with the objective of avoiding word 
choices which may be interpreted as biased, discriminatory or demeaning and with the 
intention of being inclusive of gender non-binary persons.
•	
As a first step to developing a focused strategy around increasing career opportunities for 
persons with disabilities (PWDs), a tri-lingual survey to understand the needs and perceptions 
of PWDs was launched. This was one aspect of a structured phased-out roadmap, which 
includes identifying roles across the Group that can provide opportunities for PWDs with 
reasonable accommodation, the appointment of supported employment officers, conducting 
job mapping and awareness sessions by industry experts.
	y
The Group continued to strengthen its Fraud Deterrent and Investigation Framework which 
provides an integrated platform for handling all aspects of fraud and stakeholder assurance. This 
framework reinforces uniformity across common processes, employs a data-driven approach to 
the continuous assessment of control efficacy and assesses and deploys appropriate preventive 
and detective controls against fraud. 
	y
In August 2022, the Company concluded 
the issuance of unlisted, unsecured, LKR 
denominated convertible debentures 
amounting to Rs.27.06 billion, through a 
private placement to HWIC Asia Fund, a 
subsidiary of Fairfax, Canada. The coupon 
interest payable on the debenture is at 3% 
per annum.
Refer the Financial and Manufactured Capital 
Review for further details - Page 81. 
	y
The 39,025,204 options issued to the Asian 
Development Bank under the second phase 
of the private placement expired on 19 
January 2023, without the options being 
exercised.
	y
Given the significant macroeconomic 
challenges and developments prevalent 
in the country – the Board of Directors and 
the Group Executive Committee (GEC) 
frequently deliberated and evaluated the 
resilience of the Group under multiple 
stress-tested scenarios. 
•	
Cognisant of the economic hardships 
faced by the Group employees on 
account of rising prices and the scarcity 
of essential items, JKH provided a one-
off, uniform financial care package in 
the form of an ex-gratia payment, to all 
eligible Group employees during the 
month of April 2022. 
•	
A monthly temporary crisis allowance 
was introduced to all Group employees 
with effect from January 2023, to assist 
in mitigating the impacts of the rapidly 
elevated cost of living, impacts of taxes 
and high inflationary environment, 
among others. 
•	
A set of initiatives and programmes in the 
form of non-financial and indirect financial 
support were rolled-out. These included 
awareness sessions and webinars on 
managing personal finances in the current 
economic climate, emotional support 
with counsellors and employee supplier 
catalogues to name a few. 
	y
Having completed nine consecutive years, 
Mr. A Omar retired from the Board of 
Directors with effect from 27 June 2022. 
	y
With effect from 1 January 2023, Dr. S 
Coorey was appointed to the Board as an 
Independent, Non-Executive Director of the 
Company. 
	y
The Board declared a final dividend of 
Rs.0.50 per share in June 2022 for the 
financial year 2021/22. For the year under 
review, the Board declared a first interim 
dividend of Rs.1.00 per share in November 
2022 and a second interim dividend of 
Rs.0.50 per share in January 2023. 

177
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
THE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SYSTEM
The diagram below illustrates the key components of the Corporate Governance System of the John Keells Group. It depicts the internal governance 
structure, from the Board of Directors cascading down to employee level, the integrated governance systems and procedures within the Group, the 
Assurance Mechanisms in place and the various regulatory frameworks the Group is compliant with from a Governance standpoint. 
A detailed discussion of each of the components shown below is found 
on the corporate website.
LEVEL
INTEGRATED 
GOVERNANCE
Integrated Governance 
Systems and Procedures
INTERNAL GOVERNANCE 
STRUCTURE
Board of Directors and  
Senior Management Committees
ASSURANCE 
MECHANISMS 
REGULATORY 
MECHANISMS
Group
Group + 
Industry / 
Function
Business / 
Function /  
BU /  
Department
Sector /  
Function /  
Sub-sector
Industry / 
Function
Chairperson-CEO
Group Executive Committee (GEC)
Group Operating Committee (GOC)
Group Management Committee (GMC)
Sector Committee
Management Committee
Employee Empowerment
Strategy Formulation 
and Decision-Making 
Process
Human Resource 
Governance
Integrated Risk 
Management
IT Governance
Tax Governance
Stakeholder 
Management and 
Effective 
Communication
Sustainability 
Governance
External 
Assurance
Ombudsperson
Internal 
Control
Employee 
Participation
Board 
Committee
Senior 
Independent 
Director
JKH Code of 
Conduct
Board of 
Directors
Human Resources 
and Compensation 
Committee
Related Party 
Transactions 
Review 
Committee
Audit 
Committee
Nominations 
Committee
Project Risk 
Assessment 
Committee
The Code of Best Practice 
on Corporate Governance 
(2013) as published by SEC 
and the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants, Sri Lanka  
(CA Sri Lanka)
Voluntary compliance
Companies Act No. 7 of 2007
Mandatory compliance
Listing Rules of the Colombo 
Stock Exchange (CSE)
Mandatory compliance
Securities and Exchange 
Commission of Sri Lanka (SEC) 
Act No. 19 of 2021, including 
directives and circulars
Mandatory compliance
Code of Best Practice on 
Related Party Transactions 
(2013) advocated by SEC
Mandatory compliance
The Code of Best Practice on 
Corporate Governance (2017) 
issued by CA Sri Lanka
Voluntary compliance with almost 
the full 2017 Code, to the extent of 
business exigency and as required  
by the John Keells Group
	y
All five Board Sub-Committees are chaired by Independent Directors appointed by the Board.
	y
The Chairperson-CEO is present at all Human Resources and Compensation Committee meetings unless the Chairperson-CEO’s performance 
assessment or remuneration is under discussion. The Deputy Chairperson/Group Finance Director is invited as necessary.
	y
Audit Committee meetings are attended by the Chairperson-CEO and the Deputy Chairperson/Group Finance Director. The Head of Group Business 
Process Review, External Auditors and the Group Financial Controller are regular attendees.
	y
The GOC acts as the binding agent to the various businesses within the Group towards identifying and extracting Group synergies.
	y
Only the key components are depicted in the diagram. 

178 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMENTARY
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Board Composition 
As at 23 May 2023, the Board comprised of 
seven Directors, with five of them being  
Non-Executive Independent Directors. 
Non-Executive Independent Directors add 
imperative value to strategic discussions and 
decision-making, whilst enhancing fair-
mindedness. The Group policy is to maintain a 
healthy balance between the Executive, Non-
Executive and Independent Directors, in keeping 
with the applicable rules and codes, with the 
Executive Directors bringing in deep knowledge 
of the businesses and the Non-Executive 
Independent Directors bringing in experience, 
objectivity and independent oversight.
The key changes to the Board composition 
during the year under review are as follows:
	y
Dr. S Coorey was appointed to the Board 
with effect from 1 January 2023 as an 
Independent, Non-Executive Director. 
	y
Mr. A Omar retired from the Board with 
effect from 27 June 2022, having completed 
nine consecutive years on the Board.
The current composition of the JKH Board is 
illustrated as follows:
Designation
Gender
Age group
Board tenure
(years)
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
ED
SID
NED
40-50
51-60
61-70
<8
5-8
Below 5
Male
Female
Note: The Board having noted that Mr. N Fonseka 
have attained the age of 70 years and retire in terms of 
Section 210 of the Companies Act, has recommended 
the passing of ordinary resolutions at the Annual 
General Meeting of the Company which propose that 
the age limit stipulated in Section 210 of the Companies 
Act shall not apply to Mr. A N Fonseka and he be  
re-elected as a Director of the Company.
Board Skills
Collectively, the Board brings in a wealth of diverse exposure in the fields of management, business 
administration, banking, finance, economics, taxation, marketing and human resources. All 
Directors possess the skills, expertise and knowledge complemented with a high sense of integrity 
and independent judgement. 
The Group is also conscious of the need to maintain an appropriate mix of skills and experience 
in the Board through a regular review of its composition in order to ensure that the skills 
representation is in alignment with current and future needs of the Group.
Profiles of the Board of Directors 
KRISHAN BALENDRA
Krishan Balendra is the Chairperson-CEO of John Keells Holdings PLC. He is also the Chairman of 
the Employers Federation of Ceylon, Deputy Vice Chairman of the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce 
and the Hon. Consul General of the Republic of Poland in Sri Lanka. He is a former Chairman of 
Nations Trust Bank and the Colombo Stock Exchange. Krishan started his career at UBS Warburg, 
Hong Kong, in investment banking, focusing primarily on equity capital markets. He joined JKH in 
2002. Krishan holds a law degree (LLB) from the University of London and an MBA from INSEAD. 
Chairperson
N
P
ED
GIHAN COORAY
Gihan Cooray is the Deputy Chairperson/Group Finance Director and has overall responsibility 
of the Group’s Finance and Accounting, Taxation, Corporate Finance and Strategy, Treasury, 
Information Technology and Corporate Communications functions. He was the Chairman of 
Nations Trust Bank PLC till 30 April 2023. Gihan holds an MBA from the Jesse H. Jones Graduate 
School of Management at Rice University, Houston, Texas. He is a Fellow member of the Chartered 
Institute of Management Accountants, UK, a certified management accountant of the Institute  
of Certified Management Accountants, Australia and has a Diploma in Marketing from the  
Chartered Institute of Marketing, UK. He serves as a committee member of The Ceylon Chamber  
of Commerce.
Deputy Chairperson/Group Finance Director
P
ED
AMAL CABRAAL
Amal Cabraal is an accomplished business leader with over four decades of management 
experience in both local and international markets. He currently serves as the Chairman of Lion 
Brewery (Ceylon) PLC, Ceylon Beverage Holdings PLC, Silvermill Investment Holdings, and CIC 
Feeds Group of Companies. In addition to his numerous leadership roles, he also serves as a 
Non-Executive Director of John Keells Holdings PLC and is a business advisor to several other 
companies. Previously, Cabraal served as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Unilever 
Sri Lanka, where he gained extensive knowledge and expertise in the consumer goods industry. 
He has also completed the stipulated maximum nine-year tenure as a Non-Executive Director of 
Hatton National Bank PLC, providing him with deep insights into the banking sector. Cabraal is a 
member of the Board of the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce, and also serves on the Management 
Committee of the Mercantile Services Provident Society. As a marketer by profession and a 
Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Marketing, UK, he brings a wealth of marketing and branding 
expertise to his leadership roles. Cabraal holds an MBA from the University of Colombo, and is an 
executive education alumnus of INSEAD, France.
Non-Executive Director
A
H
R
N

179
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
NIHAL FONSEKA
Nihal Fonseka is a career banker and served as the Chief Executive Officer of DFCC Bank from 2000 
until his retirement in 2013. He is currently the Chairman of Phoenix Industries Limited, Non-
Executive Director and Chairman of the Investment Committee of Phoenix Ventures Limited and 
Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Group Audit Committee of Brandix Lanka Limited. 
He was a member of the Monetary Board of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka from 2016 to 2020 
and also currently after he was reappointed in June 2022. He was the President of the Sri Lanka 
National Advisory Council of the Chartered Institute of Securities and Investments, UK from 2011 
to 2021. Prior to joining the DFCC Bank, he was the Deputy Chief Executive of HSBC Sri Lanka. He is 
a past Chairman of the Colombo Stock Exchange and the Association of Development Financing 
Institutions in Asia and the Pacific (ADFIAP). He has also served as a Director of the Employees’ 
Trust Fund Board and as a member of the Presidential Commission on Taxation (2009), National 
Procurement Commission and Strategic Enterprise Management Agency (SEMA). He holds a B.Sc. 
from the University of Ceylon, Colombo, is a Fellow of the Institute of Financial Studies, (FIB) UK and 
is an Honorary Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Securities and Investments, FCSI(Hon), UK.
Non-Executive Director
A 	 Audit Committee
H 	 Human Resources and 
Compensation Committee 
N 	 Nominations Committee
R 	 Related Party Transactions Review 
Committee
P 	 Project Risk Assessment Committee
ED 	 Refer Group Directory for 
directorships held by Executive 
Directors in other Group companies
SID	 Senior Independent Director
H
A
SID
R
PREMILA PERERA
DR. SHARMINI COOREY
DR. HANS WIJAYASURIYA
Premila Perera was appointed to the Board of the Company with effect from 1 July 2014 as an 
Independent Non-Executive Director. Premila Perera, formerly a Partner, KPMG in Sri Lanka, also 
served as the Global Firms Regional Tax Director for ASPAC in 2000/01, as a member of the Global 
Task force commissioned in 1998, to advise the International Board of KPMG on future directions in 
determining long-term strategic plans, and faculty of the KPMG International Tax Business School. 
She also served a period of secondment with the US Firm’s National Tax Office in Washington 
DC, and was a participant at the KPMG-INSEAD International Banking School programme. She 
is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka. She served as an Independent 
Director and Chairperson of the Audit and Related Party Transaction Committees of Ceylon Tobacco 
Company PLC until October 2017 and as a Non-Executive Director of Holcim (Lanka) Limited until 
August 2016.
Dr. Sharmini Coorey is a former senior official of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and currently 
a member of the Presidential Advisory Group on Multilateral Engagement and Debt Sustainability 
advising the Government of Sri Lanka during the economic crisis. She joined the IMF through the 
Economist Programme in 1986 and, during her 35 year career there, worked in positions of increasing 
seniority in its African, Asia and Pacific, European, and Western hemisphere departments, as well 
as its Policy Development and Review Department. Prior to her retirement in November 2021, Dr. 
Coorey served for almost nine years as the Director of the Institute for Capacity Development (ICD), 
the IMF’s department for capacity building. As Director - the most senior staff-level position at the IMF 
- she was instrumental in establishing the ICD and providing strategic direction for the governance, 
management, and funding of the IMF’s capacity building activities. She also oversaw the IMF’s training 
for country officials worldwide and established its online programme which trained over 100,000 
Government officials in policy-oriented macroeconomics during her tenure. Before heading the ICD, 
Dr. Coorey was the Deputy Director in the IMF’s African Department, where she oversaw the Fund’s 
work on many Sub-Saharan African countries including South Africa, Botswana, and Zimbabwe. In 
addition, she led the department’s financial sector work and research agenda. Dr. Coorey’s experience 
at the IMF also includes surveillance work on the United Kingdom, Ireland, the United States, and 
Canada as well as programme work on Korea, Estonia, Mexico, and the Dominican Republic. She served 
on the Investment Committee of the IMF Staff Retirement Plan and on the Editorial Committee of 
IMF Staff Papers. She was also a visiting researcher at George Washington University’s Elliott School of 
International Affairs in Washington DC. Dr. Coorey holds a Ph.D. and a bachelor’s degree in Economics 
from Harvard University. She has published papers on inflation and economic growth in transition and 
developing countries and edited a book on managing oil wealth in Central African countries.
In his role as the Chief Executive Officer 
– Telecommunications Business, Dr. 
Hans Wijayasuriya heads the pan-region 
Telecommunications Operations of the 
Axiata Group Bhd., spanning the markets of 
Malaysia, Indonesia, Bangladesh, Nepal, Sri 
Lanka and Cambodia. Axiata is Asia’s second 
largest Telecommunications Group. Up to 
the year 2016, Dr. Wijayasuriya functioned as 
the Group Chief Executive of Dialog Axiata 
PLC (Dialog), Sri Lanka’s leading multi-play 
connectivity provider, and one of the highest 
valued companies on the Colombo Stock 
Exchange. In the year 2016, Dr. Wijayasuriya 
was honoured by the GSM Association 
as the first recipient of the ‘Outstanding 
Contribution to the Asian Mobile Industry’ 
Award. Dr. Wijayasuriya is a past Chairman of 
GSM Asia Pacific – the regional interest group 
of the GSM Association. He was also named 
‘Sri Lankan of the Year’ by Sri Lanka’s premier 
business journal, LMD in 2008. Dr. Wijayasuriya 
is the immediate past Chairman of the Ceylon 
Chamber of Commerce, Sri Lanka’s premier 
business chamber. During the period 2012-
14, Dr. Wijayasuriya also functioned as the 
founding CEO of Axiata Digital Services – the 
Group-wide Digital Services Business of the 
Axiata Group. Dr. Wijayasuriya is an alumnus  
of the University of Cambridge UK, and 
obtained his PhD from the University of Bristol 
UK. A Chartered Engineer and Fellow of the 
Institute of Engineering Technology UK, Dr. 
Wijayasuriya also holds an MBA from the 
University of Warwick.
Non-Executive Director
Non-Executive Director
Non-Executive Director
A
N
R
P
H
P
N

180 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
Access to Independent Professional 
Advice
To preserve the independence of the Board 
and to strengthen the decision making, the 
Board is encouraged to seek independent 
professional advice, in furtherance of their 
duties, at the Group’s expense. This is 
coordinated through the Board Secretary, as 
and when requested. 
Board Induction and Training
When Directors are newly appointed to 
the Board, they undergo a comprehensive 
induction where they are apprised, inter-alia, 
of the Group values and culture, its operating 
model, policies, governance framework 
and processes, the Code of Conduct and 
the operational, environmental and social 
strategies of the Group.
Additionally, the newly appointed Directors 
are granted access to relevant parts of the 
business and are given the opportunity to 
meet with key management personnel and 
other key third-party service providers such as 
external auditors and risk consultants. 
The Board of Directors recognise the need 
for continuous training and expansion of 
knowledge and undertakes such professional 
development, as they consider necessary, 
to assist them in carrying out their duties as 
Directors.
Managing Conflicts of Interests and 
Ensuring Independence
The Group takes necessary steps to ensure 
that Directors avoid situations in which they 
have, or could have, a direct or indirect interest 
which conflicts with, or might possibly conflict 
with, the interests of the Group.
In order to avoid such potential conflicts 
or biases, the Directors make a general 
disclosure of interests, as illustrated below, 
at appointment, at the beginning of every 
financial year and during the year as required. 
Such potential conflicts are reviewed by 
the Board from time to time to ensure the 
integrity of the Board’s independence. Details 
of companies in which Board members hold 
Board or Board Committee memberships 
are available with the Company Secretary for 
inspection by shareholders, on request.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMENTARY
Prior to Appointment 
Once Appointed 
During Board Meetings 
	y
Nominees are requested to make known their various interests
	y
Directors obtain Board clearance prior to:
•	
Accepting a new position.
•	
Engaging in any transaction that could create or potentially create a conflict of interest.
	y
All NEDs are required to notify the Chairperson-CEO of any changes to their current Board 
representations or interests and a new declaration is made annually.
	y
Directors who have an interest in a matter under discussion:
•	
Excuse themselves from deliberations on the subject matter.
•	
Abstain from voting on the subject matter (abstention from decisions is duly minuted).
The independence of all its Non-Executive Directors was reviewed on the basis of criteria 
summarised below:
Criteria for Defining Independence
Status of Conformity of NEDs
1.	 Shareholding carrying not less than 10% of 
voting rights
None of the individual EDs’ or NED/IDs’ 
shareholdings exceed 1%. 
2.	 Director of another company*
None of the NED/IDs are Directors of another 
related party company. 
3.	 Income/non-cash benefit equivalent to 
20% of the Director’s annual income
NED/ID income/cash benefits are less than 
20% of an individual Director’s annual income. 
4.	 Employment at JKH and/or material 
business relationship with JKH, currently 
or in the two years immediately preceding 
appointment as Director
None of the NED/IDs are employed or have 
been employed at JKH. 
5.	 Close family member is a Director, CEO or a 
Key Management Personnel
No family member of the EDs or NED/ IDs 
is a Director or CEO or a Key Management 
Personnel of a related party company.  
6.	 Has served on the Board continuously for a 
period exceeding nine years from the date 
of the first appointment
All NEDs, except Mr. A Cabraal and Mr. N 
Fonseka, satisfy these criteria. The Board has 
determined that, although Mr. A Cabraal 
and Mr. N Fonseka do not satisfy the said 
criteria, they do, in the opinion of the Board 
satisfy the other qualifying criteria in terms 
of independence. Having also considered all 
other factors, the Board is of the view that Mr. 
A Cabraal and Mr. N Fonseka are Independent.
7.	 Is employed, has a material business 
relationship and/or significant shareholding 
in other companies*. Entails other companies 
that have significant shareholding in JKH 
and/or JKH has a business connection with
None of the NED/IDs are employed, have a 
material business relationship or a significant 
shareholding of another related party 
company as defined. 
*	 Other companies in which a majority of the other Directors of the listed company are employed, or are Directors or 
have a significant shareholding or have a material business relationship.
No Non-Executive Independent Director has a conflict of interest as per the criteria for 
independence outlined above. 

181
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
Board Meetings
During the financial year under review, there were six Board meetings. All pre-scheduled Board meetings are generally preceded by a Pre-Board 
meeting, which is usually held on the day prior to the formal Board Meeting. In addition to these Pre-Board meetings, the Board of Directors 
communicate, as appropriate, when issues of strategic importance requiring extensive discussions arise.  
The attendance at the Board meetings held during the financial year 2022/23 is given below:
Name
Year of Appointment 
to the Board
26 Apr 22
23 May 22
20 June 22
27 July 22
04 Nov 22
31 Jan 23
Eligibility
Attended
K. Balendra 
2016/17
 
 
 
 
 
 
6
6
G. Cooray 
2016/17
 
 
 
 
 
 
6
6
N. Fonseka 
2013/14
 
 
 
 
 
 
6
6
A. Cabraal 
2013/14
 
 
 
 
 
 
6
6
P. Perera 
2014/15
 
 
 
 
 
 
6
6
H. Wijayasuriya 
2016/17
 
 
 
 
 

6
5
A. Omar* 
2012/13
 
 
 
N/A
N/A
N/A
3
3
S Coorey**
2022/23
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
  
1
1
*Retired on 27 June 2022
**Appointed with effect from 1 January 2023
BOARD SUB-COMMITTEES
The Board has delegated some of its functions to Board Sub-Committees, whilst retaining final decision rights. Members of these Sub-Committees 
focus on their designated areas of responsibility and impart knowledge and oversight in areas where they have greater expertise.
The five Board Sub-Committees are as follows:
i.	 Audit Committee
ii.	 Human Resources and Compensation Committee
iii.	 Nominations Committee
iv.	 Related Party Transactions Review Committee
v.	 Project Risk Assessment Committee
The Board Sub-Committees comprise predominantly of Independent Non-Executive Directors. The membership of the five Board Sub-Committees is 
as follows;
Board Sub-Committee Membership 
as at 31 March 2023
Audit 
Committee
Human 
Resources and 
Compensation 
Committee
Nominations 
Committee
Related Party 
Transactions 
Review 
Committee
Project Risk 
Assessment 
Committee
Executive
K Balendra – Chairperson-CEO
G Cooray – Deputy Chairperson/Group Finance Director
Senior Independent Non-Executive
N Fonseka
Independent Non-Executive
A Cabraal
P Perera
H Wijayasuriya
S Coorey
	 Committee Member
	 Committee Chair 

182 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
Audit Committee
No. of meetings - 05
	y
All members are Non-Executive Independent Directors, with at least one member having 
significant, recent and relevant financial management and accounting experience, and 
membership in a recognised professional accounting body.
	y
The Chairperson-CEO and the Group Finance Director are permanent invitees for all 
Committee meetings. The Group Financial Controller is also present at discussions relating 
to Group reporting.
	y
The Head of the Group Business Process Review division is the Secretary of the Committee.
Composition
	y
Overseeing the preparation, presentation and review of the quarterly and annual financial 
statements, including the quality, transparency, integrity, accuracy and compliance with 
accounting standards, laws and regulations.
	y
Assess the adequacy and effectiveness of the internal control environment in the Group 
and ensure appropriate action is taken on the recommendation of the internal auditors.
	y
Evaluate the competence and effectiveness of the risk management systems of the Group 
and ensure robustness and effectiveness in monitoring and controlling risks.
	y
Review the adequacy and effectiveness of internal audit arrangements.
	y
Recommend the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the External Auditors 
including their remuneration and terms of engagement by assessing qualifications, 
expertise, resources and independence.
Scope
Report of the Audit Committee
Role of the Committee
The role of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities 
in relation to the integrity of the financial statements of the Company and the Group, the 
internal control and risk management framework and systems of the Group, compliance 
with legal and regulatory requirements, the External Auditors’ suitability, performance, and 
independence, and, the adequacy and performance of the internal audit function undertaken 
by the Group Business Process Review division (Group BPR). The scope of functions and 
responsibilities are adequately set out in the terms of reference of the Committee which has 
been approved by the Board and is reviewed annually. 
The Committee’s responsibilities pertain to the Group as a whole and in discharging its 
responsibilities, the Committee places reliance on the work of other Audit Committees in the 
Group without prejudicing the independence of those Committees. However, to the extent, 
and in a manner, it considers appropriate, the Committee provides feedback to those entities 
for their consideration and necessary action. 
The effectiveness of the Committee is evaluated annually by each member of the Committee 
and the results are communicated to the Board.
Composition of the Committee and Meetings
The Audit Committee comprises the undersigned and the following Independent  
Non-Executive Directors:
A Cabraal
P Perera
The Head of the Group BPR division 
served as the Secretary to the Audit 
Committee.
The Audit Committee met five times 
during the financial year. Information on 
the attendance at these meetings by the 
members of the Committee is given in the 
ensuing section. The Chairperson-CEO, 
the Deputy Chairperson/Group Finance 
Director, Group Financial Controller and 
the External Auditors attended most 
parts of these meetings by invitation. The 
Internal Auditors carrying out outsourced 
assignments and relevant executives 
of the Company and the Group also 
attended these meetings, when needed. 
The Committee engaged with the 
management to review key risks faced by 
the Group as a whole and the main sectors, 
with a view to obtaining assurances as 
appropriate and ensure effective risk 
mitigation strategies were in place.
The activities and views of the Committee 
were communicated to the Board of 
Directors quarterly through verbal 
briefings, and by tabling the minutes of 
the Committee’s meetings.
The activities and views of the Committee 
were communicated to the Board of 
Directors quarterly through verbal 
briefings, and by tabling the minutes of 
the Committee’s meetings.
Financial Reporting
The Audit Committee has reviewed and 
discussed the Group’s quarterly financial 
statements and the annual statements with 
the Management. The External Auditors 
were engaged to conduct a limited review 
of the Group’s interim financial statements 
for the six months ended 30 September 
2022. The results of this review were 
discussed with the External Auditors prior 
to publication of these statements. The 
scope of the review included ascertaining 
compliance of the statements and 
disclosures with the Sri Lanka Accounting 
Standards, the appropriateness and 
changes in accounting policies and 
material judgemental matters. Discussions 
were also held with the External 
Auditors and Management on matters 
communicated to the Committee by the 
External Auditors in their reports to the 
Committee on the audit for the year.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMENTARY

183
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
non-audit fees received by the Auditors from 
the John Keells Group. The Committee also 
reviewed the arrangements made by the 
Auditors to maintain their independence 
and confirmation has been received from 
the Auditors of their compliance with 
the independence guidance given in the 
Code of Ethics of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of Sri Lanka. 
The performance of the External Auditors 
have been evaluated with the aid of a formal 
assessment process with input provided by 
the senior management of the Company 
and the Committee has recommended 
to the Board that Ernst & Young be re-
appointed as the Lead/Consolidation 
Auditor of the Group for the financial year 
ending 31 March 2024, subject to approval 
by the Shareholders at the Annual General 
Meeting. 
N Fonseka
Chairperson of the Audit Committee 
23 May 2023
The Committee obtained independent input from the External Auditors on the effects of 
any new Sri Lanka Accounting Standards that came into effect for the year under review 
and satisfied themselves that the necessary preparatory work was carried out, to enable the 
Company to comply with these new standards.
Internal Audit, Risks and Controls
The Committee reviewed the adequacy of the Internal Audit coverage for the Group and 
the Internal Audit Plans for the Group with the Head of the Group BPR division and the 
Management. The Internal Audit function of most Group companies is outsourced to leading 
professional firms under the direction and control of the Group BPR division.
The Group BPR division regularly reported to the Committee on the adequacy and effectiveness 
of internal controls in the Group and compliance with laws and regulations and established 
policies and procedures of the Group. Reports from outsourced Internal Auditors on the 
operations of the Company and some of the unquoted subsidiaries of the Company were 
also reviewed by the Committee. Follow-up action was taken on the recommendations of the 
outsourced Internal Auditors and any other significant follow-up matters were documented and 
presented to the Committee on a quarterly basis by the Head of Group BPR. The Committee 
reviewed the effectiveness of digital forensic tools used by Group BPR.
The Sustainability and Enterprise Risk Management division reported to the Committee on the 
process of identification, evaluation and management of all significant risks faced by the Group. 
The report covered the overall risk profile of the Group for the year under review in comparison 
with that of the previous year, and the most significant risks from a Group perspective together 
with mitigatory action. The Group functions in an environment where not all risks can be 
completely eliminated and in this context the Committee reviews remedial measures taken to 
manage risks that do materialise and the level of residual risk.
Formal confirmations and assurances were obtained from the senior management of Group 
companies on a quarterly basis regarding the efficacy and status of the internal control systems 
and risk management systems and compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
The Committee reviewed the whistleblowing arrangements for the Group and had direct access 
to the Ombudsperson for the Group. The effectiveness and resource requirements of the Group 
BPR division were reviewed and discussed with the management and changes were effected 
where considered necessary.
External Audit
The External Auditors’ Letter of Engagement, including the scope of the audit, was reviewed 
and discussed by the Committee with the External Auditors and the management prior to the 
commencement of the audit.
The External Auditors kept the Committee advised on an on-going basis regarding matters of 
significance that were pending resolution. Before the conclusion of the audit, the Committee 
met with the External Auditors and the management to discuss all audit issues and to agree 
on actions. This included the discussion of formal reports from the External Auditors to the 
Committee. The Committee also met the External Auditors, without management being present, 
prior to the finalisation of the financial statements to obtain their input on specific issues and to 
ascertain whether they had any areas of concern relating to their work. No matters other than 
those already discussed with the management were raised by the External Auditors. 
The External Auditors’ final management reports on the audit of the Company and the 
financial statements of the Company and Group for the year 2022/23 were discussed with the 
management and the Auditors.
The Committee is satisfied that the independence of the External Auditors has not been 
impaired by any event or service that gives rise to a conflict of interest. Due consideration has 
been given to the nature of the services provided by the Auditors and the level of audit and 

184 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMENTARY
Human Resources and Compensation Committee
No. of meetings - 02
	y
Committee comprises exclusively of Independent Non-Executive Directors.
	y
The Chairperson of the Committee must be an Independent Non-Executive Director.
	y
The Chairperson-CEO and Group Finance Director are invited to all Committee meetings 
unless the Chairperson-CEO or Executive Director remuneration is under discussion 
respectively.
	y
The Deputy Chairperson/Group Finance Director is the Secretary of the Committee.
Composition
	y
Review and recommend overall remuneration philosophy, strategy, policies and practices 
and, performance-based pay plans for the Group.
	y
Determine and agree with the Board a framework for the remuneration of the 
Chairperson and Executive Directors based on performance targets, benchmark principles, 
performance-related pay schemes, industry trends and past remuneration.
	y
Succession planning of Key Management Personnel.
	y
Determining compensation of Non-Executive Directors is not under the scope of this 
Committee.
Scope
Report of the Human Resources and Compensation Committee
The Human Resource and Compensation Committee forms a key part of the governance 
framework of the Group and carries the mandate to oversee the compensation and benefits 
policies adopted by the Group, and in doing so, review and recommend overall remuneration 
philosophy, strategy, policies and practices and performance-based pay plans. Furthermore, 
it reviews performance, compensation and benefits of the Chief Executive Officer (CEO), the 
other Executive Directors, and key executives who support and implement decisions at an 
apex level, the overall business strategy and make recommendation thereon to the Board 
of Directors. The Committee also reviews and monitors the performance of the Group’s 
top talent for purposes of organisational growth and succession planning, with particular 
emphasis on succession at key executive levels.
In performing this role, the Committee is conscious of the need to ensure that stakeholder 
interests are aligned, and the Group is able to attract, motivate and retain talent and ensure 
their loyalty; the integrity of the Group’s compensation and benefits programme is maintained 
and importantly, that the compensation policy and schemes are compliant with applicable 
laws and regulations.
In this context, the Committee determined the remuneration of the Executive Directors 
including the Chairperson-CEO in terms of the methodology set out by the Board, upon 
an evaluation of their performance by the Non-Executive Directors. The evaluation of the 
members of the Group Executive Committee (GEC) was considered by the Committee 
and remuneration was determined based on performance, market comparators for similar 
positions and in accordance with the Company’s Compensation and Benefits policy. 
As per the mandate outlined, the report from the Chairperson of the Human Resources and 
Compensation Committee continues to be a standing agenda item at the quarterly Board 
meetings. The Chairperson of the Committee reports on the developments which have 
taken place since the last Board meeting, if any, and updates the Board on various matters, as 
relevant and requested. 
The Committee wishes to report that 
the Company has complied with 
the Companies Act in relation to 
remuneration of Directors. The annual 
performance appraisal scheme, the 
calculation of short-term incentives, and 
the award of ESOPs were executed in 
accordance with the approvals given 
by the Board, based on discussions 
conducted between the Committee and 
the Management. 
A Cabraal 
Chairperson of the Human Resources and 
Compensation Committee
22 May 2023
Director Remuneration
Executive Director Remuneration
The Human Resources and Compensation 
Committee (HRCC) is responsible for 
determining the compensation of the 
Chairperson-CEO and the Deputy Chairperson/
Group Finance Director, both Executive 
Directors of the Group. The Human Resources 
and Compensation Committee operates in 
conformity with applicable rules and regulations. 
The HRCC committee comprises solely of 
Independent, Non-Executive Directors. Whilst 
Independent Non-Executive Directors are 
appointed based on the recommendations 
of the Nominations Committee, they are put 
forward for shareholder voting at the Annual 
General Meeting, whereby the HRCC serves as 
an independent conduit for shareholder and 
other stakeholder interests. 
A significant proportion of Executive Director 
remuneration is variable. The variability is linked 
to the peer adjusted consolidated Group bottom 
line and expected returns on shareholder 
funds. In determining remuneration, other ESG 
considerations, including non-financial key 
performance indicators (KPIs), are also given 
due prominence. Further, the Human Resources 
and Compensation Committee consults the 
Chairperson-CEO about any proposals relating to 
the Executive Director remuneration, other than 
that of the Chairperson-CEO. 
During the year, ESOPs, valued using a 
binomial pricing model, were granted to 
the Executive Directors as well as to all other 
eligible employees. 

185
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
Non-Executive Director Remuneration
The compensation of Non-Executive Directors was determined in reference to fees paid to other 
Non-Executive Directors of comparable companies, and adjusted, where necessary, in keeping 
with the complexity of the Group. Non-Executive Directors were paid additional fees for either 
chairing or being a member of a Sub-Committee and did not receive any performance/incentive 
payments/share option plans. 
Total aggregate of Non-Executive Director remuneration for the year was Rs.20 million [2021/22: 
Rs.16 million]. 
Nominations Committee
No. of meetings - 02
	y
Majority of the members of the Committee shall be Non-Executive Directors together with 
the Chairperson-CEO. 
	y
The Chairperson of the Committee must be an Independent Non-Executive Director. 
	y
The Secretary to the Board is the Secretary of the Committee. 
Composition
	y
Assess the skills required on the Board given the needs of the businesses. 
	y
From time to time, assess the extent to which the required skills are represented at the 
Board. 
	y
Prepare a clear description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment. 
	y
Identify and recommend suitable candidates for appointments to the Board. 
	y
Ensure, on appointment to Board, Non-Executive Directors receive a formal letter of 
appointment specifying clear expectations in terms of time commitment, involvement 
outside of the formal Board meetings, participation in Committees, amongst others. 
	y
Ensure that every appointee undergoes an induction to the Group. 
	y
The appointment of the Chairperson and Executive Directors is a collective decision of 
the Board. 
Scope
	y
Identify suitable persons to be 
appointed as Non-Executive Directors 
to the Board of JKH and make 
recommendations to other listed 
companies in the Group. 
	y
Review the structure, size, composition 
and skills of each Board. 
	y
Ensure that every appointee 
undergoes an induction. 
	y
Make recommendations on matters 
referred to it by the Board. 
During the reporting period, the following 
appointments were made consequent to 
the recommendation of the Committee: 
John Keells Holdings PLC
	y
A N Fonseka (renewal)
	y
D A Cabraal (renewal)
	y
S S H Wijayasuriya (renewal)
	y
S A Coorey (new appointment)
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC
	y
S T Ratwatte (renewal) 
	y
R S Wilson Wijeratnam (renewal)
John Keells PLC
	y
A K Gunawardhana (renewal)
	y
B A I Rajakarier (renewal)
	y
C N Wijewardane (renewal)
John Keells Hotels PLC
	y
K A Gunasekera (renewal)
	y
A K Moonesinghe (renewal)
	y
H Premaratne (new appointment)
Keells Food Products PLC
	y
S De Silva (renewal)
	y
A E H Sanderatne (renewal)
	y
I Samarajiva (renewal)
	y
P D Samarasinghe (renewal)
Tea Smallholder Factories PLC
	y
A S Jayatilleke (renewal) 
Trans Asia Hotels PLC
	y
S A Atukorale (new appointment) 
	y
N L Gooneratne (renewal) 
The Committee reports its activities at 
each Board Meeting. 
The Committee continues to work with the 
Board on reviewing its skills mix, based on 
the immediate and emerging needs of the 
Group. Further, the Committee discusses 
with the Board the outputs of the annual 
JKH Board evaluation. 
A Cabraal
Chairperson of the Nominations 
Committee 
22 May 2023
The Nominations Committee as at 31 March 2023, consisted of the following members: 
	y
A Cabraal (Chairperson)
	y
K Balendra 
	y
P Perera 
	y
H Wijayasuriya 
*Note: A Omar resigned as the Chairperson of the Nominations Committee consequent to his resignation from 
the Board of John Keells Holdings PLC (JKH) on 27 June 2022.
The Nominations Committee reaffirmed its mandate to: 
	y
Recommend to the Board the process of selecting the Chairperson and Deputy Chairperson. 
	y
Assess the skills required for each business, based on the strategic demands to be met by 
JKH and other listed companies of the Group. 
Excluding ESOPs granted, the total aggregate remuneration paid to Executive Directors for the year 
under review was Rs.196 million [2021/22: Rs.106 million] of which Rs.54 million [2021/22: Rs.23 
million] was the variable portion linked to the performance benchmark as described above and 
Rs.142 million [2021/22: Rs.83 million] was the fixed remuneration. 
Report of the Nominations Committee

186 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMENTARY
Related Party Transactions Review Committee 
No. of meetings - 04
	y
The Chairperson shall be an Independent Non-Executive Director.
	y
Members of the committee should be a combination of Non-Executive Directors and 
Independent Non-Executive Directors.
	y
The composition may include Executive Directors at the option of the Listed Entity. 
Composition
	y
The Group has broadened the scope of the Committee to include senior decision makers 
in the list of key management personnel, whose transactions with Group companies also 
get reviewed by the Committee, in addition to the requisitions of the CSE.
	y
Develop, and recommend for adoption by the Board of Directors of JKH and its listed 
subsidiaries, a Related Party Transaction Policy which is consistent with the operating 
model and the delegated decision rights of the Group.
	y
Update the Board on related party transactions of each of the listed companies of the 
Group on a quarterly basis.
	y
Define and establish the threshold values for each of the subject listed companies in 
setting a benchmark for related party transactions, related party transactions which 
have to be pre-approved by the Board, related party transactions which require to be 
reviewed annually and similar issues relating to non-listed companies.
Scope
Report of the Related Party Transactions Review Committee
Composition
The following Directors served as members of the Committee during the financial year: 
P Perera  
N Fonseka 
A Cabraal 
The Chairperson-CEO, Deputy Chairperson/Group Finance Director, and Group Financial 
Controller attended meetings by invitation. The Head of Group Business Process Review 
served as the Secretary to the Committee. The Committee held four meetings during the 
financial year, which were held on a quarterly basis. Information on the attendance at these 
meetings by the members of the Committee is given alongside. 
Objective and Governing Policies 
The objective of the Committee is to exercise oversight on behalf of the Board of John 
Keells Holdings PLC and its listed subsidiaries, to ensure compliance with all applicable rules 
and regulations, namely the Code on Related Party Transactions, as issued by the Securities 
and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka (‘The Code’) and the Listing Rules of the Colombo 
Stock Exchange (CSE). The Committee has also adopted best practices as recommended by 
the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka and ensures that transactions are in line 
with the Groups’ internal governance framework and associated policies.
Procedure
The Committee in discharging its functions primarily relied on processes that were 
validated from time to time and periodic reporting by the relevant entities and Key 
Management Personnel (KMP) with a view to ensuring that: 
	y
there is compliance with ‘The Code’ and the Listing Rules of the CSE 
	y
shareholder interests are protected; and 
	y
fairness and transparency are maintained. 
Non-recurrent Related Party Transactions 
(RPTs) of listed entities:
The Committee advocated the Management 
to implement appropriate procedures to 
ensure that all non-recurrent RPTs of the 
Group’s listed entities are submitted to the 
Committee, for pre-approval. Accordingly, 
the Committee reviewed and pre-approved 
all proposed non-recurrent Related Party 
Transactions (RPTs) of the parent, John Keells 
Holdings PLC, and all its listed subsidiaries, 
namely: Asian Hotels and Properties PLC, 
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC, John Keells PLC, John 
Keells Hotels PLC, Keells Food Products PLC, 
Tea Smallholder Factories PLC, Trans Asia 
Hotels PLC and Union Assurance PLC. 
Recurrent RPTs of listed entities:
The Committee has endorsed guidelines 
to facilitate disclosures and assurances to 
be provided by the senior management of 
listed entities in the Group so as to validate 
compliance with sec 9.5(a) of the Listing Rules 
and thus exclusion from the mandate for 
review and pre-approval of such transactions 
by the Committee. 
Accordingly, Recurrent RPTs as well as the 
aforesaid disclosures and assurances were 
reviewed annually by the Committee. 
Other significant transactions of non-listed 
subsidiaries: 
Material transactions of non-listed 
subsidiaries in the Group were presented to 
the Committee for information.  
The Group continued to adopt a broader 
scope in defining key management personnel 
including therein all senior decision makers. 
Accordingly, in addition to the Directors, all 
Presidents, Executive Vice Presidents, Chief 
Executive Officers, Chief Financial Officers and 
Financial Controllers of respective companies/
sectors have been designated as KMPs in order 
to increase transparency and enhance good 
governance. Annual disclosures from all KMPs 
setting out any RPTs they were associated 
with, if any, were obtained and reviewed by 
the Committee. 
The activities and views of the Committee 
have been communicated to the Board 
of Directors, quarterly, through verbal 
briefings, and by tabling the minutes of the 
Committee’s meetings. 
P Perera  
Chairperson of the Related Party Transactions 
Review Committee 
22 May 2023

187
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
Project Risk Assessment Committee 
	y
Should comprise of a minimum of four Directors. 
	y
Must include the Chairperson-CEO and Group Finance Director. 
	y
Must include two Non-Executive Directors. 
	y
The Chairperson must be a Non-Executive Director. 
Composition
	y
Review and assess risks associated with large-scale investments and the mitigatory 
plans thereto, if mitigation is possible, and identify risks that cannot be mitigated. 
	y
Ensure stakeholder interests are aligned, as applicable, in making this investment 
decision. 
	y
Where appropriate, obtain specialised expertise from external sources to evaluate 
risks, in consultation with the Group Finance Director. 
	y
Recommend to the Board, necessary action required, to mitigate risks that are 
identified in the course of evaluating a project in order to ensure that those risks are 
captured by the Group Risk Matrix for monitoring and mitigation. 
	y
Note that the Committee shall convene only when there is a need to transact in 
business as per the terms of its mandate.
Scope
Report of the Project Risk Assessment Committee
The following Directors served as members of the Committee during the financial year:
H Wijayasuriya (Chairperson)
K Balendra
G Cooray
P Perera
The Project Risk Assessment Committee was established with the purpose of further 
augmenting the Group’s Investment Evaluation Framework. The Committee provides 
the Board with enhanced illumination of Risk perspectives with respect to large scale 
new investments, and also assists the Board in assessing the potential impact of risks 
associated with such investments. Investments which are referred to the Committee 
are those which exceed a board-agreed threshold in terms of quantum of investment 
and/or potential impact to the Group. The Committee accordingly provides early-stage 
recommendations to the Board with respect to the extent of risk and adequacy of 
mitigation strategies.
Given the extenuating impact of Sri Lanka’s macroeconomic crisis on Group businesses 
and the trailing impacts of the pandemic on specific sectors; Board discussions took 
place at a higher frequency, affording the opportunity for matters pertaining to Group 
investments and risk assessments to be deliberated by the full Board. 
H Wijayasuriya
Chairperson of the Project Risk Assessment Committee
22 May 2023
COMBINED CHAIRPERSON-CEO ROLE
The Group’s Chairperson continued to play the role 
of the CEO, in addition to the role of Chairperson. 
The appropriateness of combining the two roles is 
discussed in detail in the ensuing section. 
The appropriateness in combining the roles 
of the Chairperson-CEO was established after 
evaluation and debate, internally and externally. 
The appropriateness of continuing with the 
combined role is revisited and rigorously 
evaluated periodically - the Board continues to 
maintain its position that the combination of 
the two roles is more appropriate for the Group 
in meeting stakeholder objectives in a large, 
diversified conglomerate setting. This view 
takes into consideration not only the diversity 
of the industries the Group engages in but also 
the macroeconomic conditions which requires 
the leadership to be nimble and agile. These 
discussions are supported by international best 
practice accessed through consultancy services 
and experts.
	y
The intended objective of achieving improved 
governance and higher independence can 
be better achieved via a focus on certain 
complementary actions, which have proven 
to be an effective assurance mechanism to 
the role of a combined Chairperson-CEO. If 
the same objective can be achieved under the 
guidance of a combined Chairperson-CEO, 
the introduction of a segregated role should 
not compromise the underlying operating 
model of a corporate, including that of JKH – 
particularly if there is no proven effectiveness 
in segregation. Such ‘checks and balances’ 
entail:
(i)	 Establishing a strong independent governance 
element via assurance mechanisms such as: 
•	
Presence of a Senior Independent Director 
who will act as the independent party 
to whom concerns could be voiced on a 
confidential basis and ensure that matters 
discussed at the Board level are done 
so in an environment which facilitates 
independent thought by individual 
Directors.
•	
A Nominations Committee that ensures 
the nomination of Non-Executives who are 
truly independent.
•	
The presence of a Board which comprises 
of a majority Independent Directors.
•	
Presence of an Ombudsperson. 
(ii)	 Use of systematic, comprehensive Board and 
CEO/chair evaluations. 
(iii)	 Ensuring active involvement of the Board in 
CEO succession and strategy formulation

188 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMENTARY
INTEGRATED GOVERNANCE SYSTEMS AND PROCEDURES 
Listed below are the main governance systems and procedures of the Group. These systems 
and procedures strengthen the elements of the JKH Internal Governance Structure and are 
benchmarked against industry best practice. 
i.	 Strategy formulation and decision-making process 
ii.	 Human resource governance 
iii.	 Integrated risk management 
iv.	 IT governance 
v.	 Tax governance 
vi.	 Stakeholder management and effective communications 
vii.	Sustainability governance
Each of the components above are discussed in detail through the detailed Corporate Governance 
Commentary available on the Corporate website
ASSURANCE MECHANISMS
The Assurance Mechanisms comprise of the various supervisory, monitoring and benchmarking 
elements of the Group Corporate Governance System which are used to measure ‘actuals’ against 
‘plan’ with a view to highlighting deviations, signalling the need for quick corrective action, and 
quick redress, when necessary. These mechanisms also act as ‘safety nets’ and internal checks in 
the Governance system. The Group also conducts internal and external audits on a periodic basis, 
annually at minimum.
As outlined in the ensuing sections, the Group has various mechanisms in place for concerns to be 
escalated and raised at a Board level or GEC level. Other than matters on significant transactions 
linked to the operations of the Group, no critical concerns which have a material adverse effect on 
the Group were raised during the year. 
The Code of Conduct
The Code of Conduct also entails conformance to all Group policies, and also includes, amongst 
many others, policies on gifts, entertainment, facilitation payments, proprietary and confidential 
information. Policies on anti-fraud, anti-corruption and anti-money laundering and countering the 
financing of terrorism and JKH’s Code of Conduct, amongst other policies, also encompass:
	y
anti-bribery controls to prevent payments and contributions being made with the aim of 
obtaining an improper business benefit from any party including, but not limited to, clients, 
service providers, customers, business associates and political parties; and
	y
controls on gifting and favours. The 
giving or accepting gifts or favours in 
whatsoever form, including from clients, 
service providers, customers, business 
associates and political parties and any other 
stakeholder we engage with in the course 
of carrying out duties in our professional 
capacity, is prohibited if it was possible on 
the part of a ‘reasonable person’ to conclude 
that the giving/acceptance of such gifts or 
favours could directly or indirectly affect 
one’s independence in decision making 
and conduct as an employee and/or if it 
could be seen by others as a consideration 
for an official or business favour. The 
‘reasonable person’ test should also be 
applied in respect of charitable donations 
and sponsorships (financial or in-kind) that 
are made. 
JKH Code of Conduct
	y
Allegiance to the Company and the 
Group, that ensures the Group will ‘do 
the right thing’, by going further than 
the letter of any contract, the law and 
our written policies.
	y
Compliance with rules and regulations 
applying in the territories that the Group 
operates in.
	y
Conduct all businesses in an ethical 
manner at all times in keeping with 
acceptable businesses practices 
and demonstrate respect for the 
communities we operate in and the 
natural environment.
	y
Exercise of professionalism and 
integrity in all business and ‘public’ 
personal transactions.
In the event a gift or benefit of a threshold 
of above USD 50 per gift is given or received, 
based on business exigencies, these are 
monitored to ensure conformance with the 
Group’s policies, including policies on gifts and 
entertainment. Such exceptions are required 
to be reported to the respective Finance 
Head of the business (Chief Financial Officer 
or Sector Financial Controller), where in turn, 
these are collated and monitored centrally.
The Code of Conduct, and thereby all 
Group policies apply to all employees and 
directors. All policies of the Company are 
readily available to employees in the primary 
languages used in the country the Company 
operates in i.e. in Sinhala, Tamil and English.
Chairperson-CEO 
Purpose as Chairperson: 
	y
To provide leadership to the Board 
whilst inculcating good governance and 
ensuring effectiveness of the Board. 
	y
Ensure constructive working relations are 
maintained between the Executive and 
Non-Executive members of the Board. 
	y
Ensure, with the assistance of the Board 
Secretary, that: 
•	
Board procedures are followed. 
•	
Information is disseminated in a timely 
manner to the Board.
Purpose as CEO: 
	y
Execute strategies and policies of the 
Board. 
	y
Ensure the efficient management of all 
businesses. 
	y
Guide and supervise Executive Directors 
towards striking a balance between their 
Board and Executive responsibilities. 
	y
Ensure the operating model of the Group 
is aligned with short and long-term 
strategies of the Group. 
	y
Ensure succession planning at the senior 
level.

189
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
The objectives of the Code of Conduct are strongly affirmed by a strong set of Values which are 
well institutionalised at all levels within the Group through structured communication. The degree 
of employee conformance with Values and their degree of adherence to the JKH Code of Conduct 
are key elements of the reward and recognition schemes.
The Group Values continue to be consistently referred to by the Chairperson-CEO, Presidents, 
Sector and Business Unit Heads during employee and other key stakeholder engagements, in 
order to instil these values in the hearts and DNA of the employee.
Group Values are found in the Business Model section of the Annual Report. 
Senior Independent Director
Considering the combined role of the Chairperson-CEO, the presence of the Senior Independent 
Director is important in ensuring that no one person has unfettered decision making powers, 
and that matters discussed at the Board level are done so in an environment which facilitates 
independent thought by individual Directors. The Senior Independent Director also acts as the 
independent party to whom concerns could be voiced on a confidential basis.
The Senior Independent Director meets with other Non-Executive Directors, without the presence 
of the Chairperson-CEO, at least twice every year to evaluate the effectiveness of the Chairperson-
CEO and has regular meetings with the other Non-Executive Directors on matters relating to the 
effectiveness of the Board or the Board as appropriate. The Senior Independent Director is also 
kept informed by the Ombudsperson of any matters in respect of the JKH Code of Conduct which 
has come to his attention.
Report of the Senior Independent Director
The Ombudsperson has reported to me 
that no issues have been brought to his 
attention that indicate mismanagement, 
unfair treatment or justified discontent on 
the part of any employee or ex-employee 
during the financial year.
The Independent Directors thank the 
Chairperson-CEO, Deputy Chairperson/
Group Finance Director, members of 
the Group Executive Committee, Sector 
Heads and members of the management 
team for their openness and co-operation 
on all matters where their input was 
sought by the Non-Executive Directors.
N Fonseka
Senior Independent Director
22 May 2023
Board Sub-Committees
The Board Sub-Committees play an important 
supervisory and monitoring role by focusing 
on the designated areas of responsibility 
passed to it by the Board. 
For more information on the Board Sub-
Committees refer section 3.2 of the detailed 
Governance Commentary on the website.
Employee Participation in Assurance
The Group is continuously working towards 
introducing innovative and effective ways 
of employee communication and employee 
awareness. The importance of top-down, 
bottom-up, and lateral communication in gaining 
employee commitment to organisational goals 
has been conveyed extensively through various 
communications issued by the Chairperson-
CEO and the management. Whilst employees 
have many opportunities to interact with senior 
management, the Group has created the ensuing 
formal channels for such communication through 
feedback, without the risk of reprisal.
	y
Skip level meetings
	y
Exit interviews
	y
Young Forum meetings
	y
360-degree evaluation
	y
Employee surveys
	y
Monthly staff meetings
	y
Ombudsperson
	y
Access to Senior Independent Director
	y
Continuous reiteration and the practice of 
the ‘Open-Door’ policy
Independent Directors
A Cabraal
S Coorey (appointed with effect from 1 January 2023)
N Fonseka
A Omar (retired on 27 June 2022)
P Perera
H Wijayasuriya
The independence of each Director has been established based on the information and 
declarations submitted by them. The Board has concluded that all Non-Executive Directors are 
independent.
Apart from unstructured and informal contacts, the Independent Directors had two virtual 
meetings without Executive Directors participating, to discuss matters relevant to their 
responsibilities as Non-Executive Directors. These meetings concluded with a wrap up session 
with the Chairperson-CEO, who provided responses to matters raised, or agreed to provide 
further information or clarification at Board meetings. The Covid-19 pandemic continued to 
have an adverse impact on the operations of the Group although to a far lesser extent than in 
the previous year as business activity in most sectors recovered to pre-pandemic levels by the 
end of the financial year. Earlier in the financial year, global commodity price increases and Sri 
Lanka’s worsening macroeconomic conditions led to social unrest, higher interest rates, sharp 
depreciation of the Rupee and acute foreign exchange shortages and exposed the Group 
to higher risks. The management and mitigation of these risks received special attention 
of the Non-Executive Directors and are referred to in greater detail in the Annual Report. 
Remuneration of Executive Directors was also determined at a meeting of the Non-Executive 
Directors.
The minutes of meetings of the Group Executive Committee (GEC) are circulated to the 
Non-Executive Directors to ensure a high degree of transparency and interaction between 
the Executive and Non-Executive members of the Board. The Non-Executive Directors are 
also kept advised on the progress of key ongoing projects and management responds to any 
clarifications sought.

190 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMENTARY
Additionally, the Group continued with its 
whistle-blower policy and securities trading 
policy. The Group has witnessed an increased 
level of communication flow from employees. 
Such communication and feedback received 
from the employees by the management 
are recorded, irrespective of the level of 
anonymity, and subsequently discussed and 
followed up. The respective outcomes are duly 
recorded.
Internal Controls
The Board has taken necessary steps to ensure 
the integrity of the Group’s accounting and 
financial reporting systems, and internal 
control systems remain robust and effective 
via the review and monitoring of such systems 
on a periodic basis.
Internal Compliance
A quarterly self-certification programme 
requires the Presidents, Sector Heads and 
Chief Financial Officers of industry groups to 
confirm compliance with statutory and other 
regulatory procedures, and also to identify 
any significant deviations from the expected 
norms. The compliance statement which 
gets collated every quarter and tabled at 
the respective Audit Committee meetings, 
is subject to periodic review and where 
applicable revised, to reflect and capture any 
material changes that drive the macro and 
micro operating contexts, for reporting and 
monitoring purposes.  
System of Internal Control
The Board has taken steps to obtain assurance 
that systems designed to safeguard the 
Company’s assets and provide management 
information are functioning according to 
expectations and proper accounting records 
are in place through the involvement of the 
Group Business Process Review function.
This also entails automated monitoring 
and workflow based escalation in order to 
facilitate timely clearing of all transactional 
entries including complete reconciliation, 
unreconciled and open entries being flagged 
and periodically scrutinised, and formal 
disclosure being made to the relevant Audit 
Committees, efficient management and 
tracking of cash and cheques deposits, in line 
with international best practice and continual 
streamlining and optimisation of the Internal 
Audit function via identification of focus areas, 
improvement opportunities and feedback 
reporting in order to reinforce governance and 
assurance.
The Group has in place two integrated frameworks, the ‘Fraud Deterrent and Investigation Framework’ 
and the ‘Process Review Framework’ that complement each other to strengthen the Group’s effort 
to promote anti-fraud, anti-corruption and anti-bribery by proactively recognising the changing 
context and operating landscape. The integrated fraud deterrent and investigation framework which 
enables an integrated platform for handling all aspects of fraud and stakeholder assurance, reinforces 
uniformity across common processes in matters relating to fraud, employs a data-driven approach to 
the continuous assessment of control efficacy and assesses and deploys appropriate preventive and 
detective controls against frauds. The Integrated Process Review Framework provides an innovative 
approach to internal audits which enable audits to be specific and very focused on matters relevant 
to a business entity. Emphasis is placed on use cases and events stemming from the current business 
strategy, which must get facilitated by participating processes, systems, and personnel which form 
micro-value chains with special attention to the efficacy of control and its placement to ensure the 
integrity of transaction as each traverse through each micro-value chain, at the time of audit reviews. 
The digital system for quarterly financial and operational information management which was already 
implemented, continues to perform as per expectations facilitating data capturing for compliance 
reporting, providing a sustainable and structured mechanism to enable top-down and bottom-up 
stakeholder engagement, and tracking the progression of how the compliance posture at an entity 
level has evolved, among others. The Forensic Data Analytics platform feeds into ‘Internal Audit 
Scoping’ and continues to be used to identify areas for process optimisation, strengthening controls 
and in feedback reporting to reinforce governance (management) and assurance structures.
Initiatives to Strengthen Internal Controls
The Group continued with its journey of strengthening its internal audit and process review 
framework by further augmenting, through automation, its holistic approach to internal audits 
and process reviews. Aimed at fostering better synergy and alignment of process, technology, 
and people, in optimising the interplay between these components, this framework continues 
to provide a stable platform to:
	y
operationalise the structured integrated multimodal process review framework that 
encourages auditors to report on value added recommendations, identify candidates for full/
partial process automation based on independent assessment of fit within the applicable 
domain of use cases, industry best practice and access to global knowledge bases.
	y
ascertain the degree of alignment and enforcement between process controls and 
information technology functions, particularly in handling the domain of use cases.
	y
expand the knowledge base of known types of frauds for which process and system 
controls have been evaluated, and progressively engage in continuous improvement and 
feedback initiatives based on cumulative learnings.
	y
maintain a central repository of data sets associated with each process to undertake 
retrospective forensic data analysis, as well as the use of the data as a prospective tool as 
input to steer audit scoping.
The risk review programme covering the internal audit of the whole Group is outsourced. Reports 
arising out of such audits are, in the first instance, considered and discussed at the business/ 
functional unit levels and after review by the Sector Head and the President of the industry group are 
forwarded to the relevant Audit Committee on a regular basis. Further, the Audit Committees also 
assess the effectiveness of the risk review process and systems of internal control on a regular basis.
Segregation of Duties (SoD) under Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX) Guidelines
The Group is very aware of the need to ensure that no individual has excessive system access to 
execute transactions across an entire business process or business processes which have critical 
approval linkages, in the context that increasing use of information technology and integrated 
financial controls creates unintended exposures within the Group. SoD dictates that problems 
such as fraud, material misstatements and manipulation of financial statements have the potential 
to arise when the same individual is able to execute two or more conflicting, sensitive transactions. 
Separating disparate jobs into task-oriented roles can often result in inefficiencies and costs which 
do not meet the cost versus benefit criteria. Whilst the attainment of a zero SoD conflict state is 
utopian, the Group continues to take steps, to identify and evaluate existing conflicts and reduce 
residual risks to an acceptable level under a cost versus benefit rationale. No material conflicts were 
reported during the year.

191
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
Internal Audit 
The ensuing diagram provides a helicopter view of the new Internal Audit Approach that has been rolled out within the Group. Central to this 
approach is the business strategy and how the current processes, systems, and people, are geared to efficiently and effectively handle the deliverables 
of the current business strategy at the time of review. The outer elements reflect the reporting elements which are noted in audit reports, either as 
observations and/or value-added recommendations.
P
e
r
f
o
r
m
a
n
c
e
 
M
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
 
S
y
s
t
e
m
Use Case 
(qualified 
scenario/s): 
Planned/
Existing events
Benchmarking: 
Assessing 
Suitability of 
Processes
Degree of 
Process/Systems 
Alignment 
(functional + 
controls + SoD)
Resulting 
Transaction 
Trails
Domain of 
Frauds
Focused 
Interventions to 
Facilitate
The new internal audit approach: Continuous emphasis on context
Central to this approach: Auditor determine 
how geared the factors of process, systems, and 
standard operating procedures are aligned and are 
ready to facilitate predominant use cases [specific 
scenario(s)] that stem from events occurring, 
consequent to the current business strategy.
Prompt active engagement based on 
prioritised remediation for identified 
opportunities for continuous improvement 
of existing processes, systems, standard 
operating procedures and practices.
Transactions resulting from events 
are scrutinised, anomalies identified, 
and root cause (contributory effect 
of Process, Systems, People), and its 
potential impact to the Business are 
prioritised for further deliberation.
Disclosure of a qualified list of 
Fraud that the process is assessed 
for its susceptibility and is based 
on authoritative sources such as 
Association of Certified Fraud Examiners 
(ACFE), and amongst others, Global 
knowledge resources of Audit firms.
Top-down assessment : Efficacy of the design 
and placement of Process/functional controls 
are validated/verified and benchmarked with 
contextually relevant best practices.
To Facilitate
Bottom-up evaluation : Determine how well 
process controls are enforced by the system(s) in 
use, identify opportunities for process automation 
and optimising enforcement of segregation of 
duties (SoD) to enhance efficiencies.
The Board has taken necessary steps to ensure the integrity  
of the Group’s accounting and financial reporting systems, 
and internal control systems remain robust and effective via 
the review and monitoring of such systems on a periodic basis.
Whilst there are merits and demerits associated with outsourcing an internal audit, the Group is of 
the view that having an external based auditor is more advantageous. However, there are certain 
industries where the domain is very operationally specific and requires an internal auditor in 
addition to the external auditor.
Forensic data analytics to identify anomalies and facilitate behavioural oversight
Traditionally, internal auditing followed an approach which was based on a cyclical process that 
involves manually identifying control objectives, assessing and testing controls, performing tests, 
and sampling only a relatively small population of the dataset to measure control effectiveness 
and operational performance. Today, the Group operates in a complex and dynamic business 
environment where the number of transactions has increased exponentially over the years and 
the traditional cyclical/sample based internal auditing techniques are becoming less effective. As 
such, the Group continues to use ‘big data analysis’ techniques on the total data using standard 
deviations and z-scores in establishing real-time, user-friendly ‘outlier identification’ and ‘early 
warning triggers’.
Ombudsperson
An Ombudsperson is available to report 
any complaints from employees of alleged 
violations of the published Code of Conduct 
if the complainant feels that the alleged 
violation has not been addressed satisfactorily 
by the internally available mechanisms.
The findings and the recommendations 
of the Ombudsperson, subsequent to 
an independent inquiry, is confidentially 
communicated to the Chairperson-CEO or to 
the Senior Independent Director upon which 
the involvement duty of the Ombudsperson 
ceases.
On matters referred to him by the 
Ombudsperson, the Chairperson-CEO or the 
Senior Independent Director, as the case may 
be, will place before the Board:
i.	 the decision and the recommendations;
ii.	 action taken based on the 
recommendations;

192 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMENTARY
iii.	 where the Chairperson-CEO or the Senior Independent Director disagrees with any or all of 
the findings and or the recommendations thereon, the areas of disagreement and the reasons 
therefore.
In situation (iii) the Board is required to consider the areas of disagreement and decide on the way 
forward. The Chairperson-CEO or the Senior Independent Director is expected to take such steps 
as necessary to ensure that the complainant is not victimised, in any manner, for having invoked 
this process. 
The current Ombudsperson is an attorney-of-law by profession.
Report of the Ombudsperson
Mandate and Role 
For purposes of easy reference, the Ombudsperson’s mandate and role is set out below: 
(a)	legal and ethical violations of the Code of Conduct for employees, but in an appellate 
capacity, when a satisfactory outcome using existing procedures and processes has not 
resulted or when the matter has been inadequately dealt with; 
(b)	violations referred to above by individuals at the Executive Vice President, President 
and Executive Director levels, including that of the Chairperson-CEO, in which case the 
complainant has the option of either complaining to the Ombudsperson in the first 
instance, or first exhausting the internal remedies;
(c)	sexual harassment, in which event the complainant has the option of either complaining 
to the Ombudsperson in the first instance or first exhausting the internal remedies.
The mandate excludes disciplinary issues from the Ombudsperson’s responsibilities. The right 
to take disciplinary action is vested exclusively in the Chairperson-CEO and those to whom 
this authority has been delegated. 
No issues were raised by any member of the companies covered during the year under review. 
Ombudsperson 
31 March 2023
External Audit
Ernst & Young are the external auditors of the Company as well as many of the Group companies. 
The individual Group companies also employed KPMG Ford, Rhodes, Thornton & Co, Price 
Waterhouse Coopers, and Luthra and Luthra, India as external auditors. The appointment/re-
appointment of these auditors was recommended by the individual Audit Committees to their 
respective Boards of Directors. 
The Audit Committee, led by the Senior Independent Director and Independent Non-Executive 
Directors of JKH, annually review the appointment of external auditors and recommend the 
appointment of auditors for shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting. They have 
recommended retaining Ernst & Young as the Group lead consolidating auditor given the various 
complexities of the Group and related nuances. The Auditors maintain independence through 
routine rotation of partners. 
The audit fees paid by the Company and Group to its auditors are separately classified in the Notes 
to the Financial Statements of the Annual Report.
OUTLOOK AND EMERGING 
CHALLENGES
The need for maintaining a robust and 
well-grounded corporate governance 
framework has become vital when operating 
in a dynamic socio-economic environment, 
exacerbated by global volatility. A strong 
governance mechanism is pivotal in 
enhancing accountability to diverse 
stakeholders, ensuring corporate transparency, 
fairmindedness and creating sustainable value. 
In this light, the Group will continue to stay 
abreast of governance best practice and assess 
its level of preparedness and its capability in 
meeting and managing evolving external 
challenges.
The pursuit of continuous improvement in 
governance, emphasis on environmental and 
social considerations and a call for increased 
accountability and transparency continue 
to influence and shape the role of board 
governance aspects. The primary areas of 
focus and challenges, amongst many others, 
being recurrently addressed by JKH are 
detailed in the ensuing section.
Board Diversity
JKH acknowledges the need for diversity 
in Boards and is conscious of the need to 
attract appropriately skilled Directors who 
reflect the values and requirements of its 
businesses and vision. Whilst the Group is 
of the view that diversity ranging across 
demographic attributes, backgrounds, 
experiences and social networks improve 
a Board’s understanding of its vast pool of 
stakeholders, providing diverse connections 
with the external environment and aiding the 
Group in addressing stakeholders’ claims in a 
more responsive manner, JKH is also conscious 
of the need to maintain a strong culture of 
meritocracy, ensuring that Board diversity 
does not come at the expense of Board 
effectiveness. In this regard, every effort will be 
made to attract suitably qualified personnel 
from diverse demographics and backgrounds. 
Dr. S Coorey, who brings in invaluable 
experience, including through her career 
spanning over three and a half decades at 
the International Monetary Fund in various 
positions and geographies, was appointed to 
the Board during the year under review.

193
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
Board Independence
There is increased focus on board 
independence by stakeholders, stock 
exchanges and regulatory bodies worldwide. 
It is JKH’s view that, in order for a Board to be 
effective, companies must take steps, both in 
their structures and nominating procedures, 
to ensure fostering of independent decision-
making and mitigating potential conflicts of 
interest which may arise. 
The criteria for defining independence of 
boards vary significantly across countries. 
There is evidence that the intended vision 
of achieving improved governance and 
higher independence can be achieved 
through various checks and balances, 
whilst not compromising on the underlying 
operating model of a corporate. These 
checks and balances may entail, among 
others, establishment of various assurance 
mechanisms and the use of systematic and 
comprehensive board evaluation processes 
and independent director led engagement. 
To this end, JKH will continue to place 
emphasis on further augmenting the Board’s 
independence whilst striking a balance with 
the Group’s operating model, which addresses 
the complexities and intricacies of a diversified 
conglomerate setting.
Anti-fraud, anti-corruption and  
anti-bribery
The Group places the highest value on 
ethical practices and has promulgated a 
zero-tolerance policy towards corruption 
and bribery in all its transactions and strives 
to maintain a culture of transparency and 
honesty as opposition to fraud and corruption. 
Based on this commitment, the Code of 
Conduct, anti-fraud, fraud prevention, anti-
corruption, anti-bribery, gifting, audit and 
transparency policies, amongst many others, 
outline the principles to which the Group is 
committed in relation to preventing, reporting 
and managing fraud and corruption. It covers 
inter-alia, theft, embezzlement, overriding 
controls, giving or receiving kickbacks, 
facilitation payments, bribery, allowing 
oneself to be placed in situations of conflict of 
interest and statements (financial or non-financial) dishonestly and recklessly made contrary to the 
factual position. Accordingly, all forms of fraud and corruption, including, but not limited to, theft, 
embezzlement, overriding controls, giving or receiving kickbacks, facilitation payments and bribery is 
prohibited across the Group. 
The Group seeks to ensure that ethical business practices are the norm from the business unit 
level, down to the individual employee. Its transparent control and prevention mechanisms also 
extend to its value chain, to its customers, suppliers and business partners. 
The Group will continue its stance of zero-tolerance towards corruption and bribery in all its 
transactions and foster transparency and honesty in all business dealings, whilst continually 
developing its governance frameworks in line with international best practice. The Group’s 
continuous effort to strengthen transparency in Corporate Reporting is evident by JKH being 
placed first for the third consecutive year in the Transparency in Corporate Reporting (TRAC) 
Assessment by Transparency International Sri Lanka (TISL) 2022, whilst being the only entity to 
obtain a full overall score for transparency in disclosure practices among the top 100 companies 
listed on the CSE.
Increasing emphasis on environmental, social and governance (ESG) aspects
ESG analysis and investing continue to gain traction amongst Governments, investment 
professionals and high net worth investors, given the aim of reducing negligent and irresponsible 
corporate behaviour that may have an adverse impact on the environment, harm human rights 
and foster corruption and bribery, among others, and disintegrate the corporate in the long-term. 
Moreover, implementing effective ESG policies is crucial for companies to attract talent and retain 
employee loyalty. 
JKH is of the view that emphasis on ESG fosters a 360-degree analysis of performance and enables 
a sustainable business model, which can derive value to all stakeholders. Various measures have 
been, and are, in place, to ensure a holistic view of performance including managing scarce 
natural resources, mitigating impact of the Groups’ businesses on the environment, enhancing 
the well-being of all stakeholders and ensuring effective governance mechanisms. Such metrics 
are revisited regularly during decision-making. The Group will stay abreast of developments in this 
regard and continue to integrate ESG elements with business strategy, operations and in reporting.  
As a part of the Group’s continuous efforts towards increasing emphasis and focus on ESG aspects, 
the Group, along with an international consulting firm, has commenced work to re-formulate the 
Group’s ESG framework and set revised Group-wide ESG related targets. 
The key expectation of this engagement is to align the ESG efforts across the Group, resulting in 
a clearly defined framework and communication of the Group’s ESG agenda. Each of the Group’s 
sectors are envisaged to have clearly established short, medium- and long-term goals, along with 
defined roadmaps to achieve the said targets. 
Pursuant to the private placement of Company shares to Asian Development Bank (ADB) in 
January 2022, the involvement of the ADB as a strategic partner in select ESG areas given its focus 
on development impacts and positive externalities, continues to augur well and helps augment 
the current initiatives across the Group and enables a rapid scale up given its strong expertise and 
experience in this area. To this end, select Group policies related to ESG areas were further enhanced 
in line with best practice advocated by ADB as well as the International Finance Corporation.

194 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMENTARY
Continual Strengthening of Internal Controls 
Augmenting transactional and financial internal controls with operational aspects, in line 
with international best practice, remains a medium-term priority for the Group. Continuous 
strengthening of internal controls through a streamlined process that optimises and facilitates 
process audit information, life cycle management and related processes are expected to: 
	y
eliminate inefficiencies inherent in manual processes.
	y
provide a platform based on process enforcement.
	y
enable management follow-up based on centrally held data in a compliance repository.
	y
identify trends, action taken, effectiveness and opportunities for process improvement by 
analysing movement of the compliance posture. 
	y
strengthen the Group’s ability to prevent and detect fraud
Digital Oversight and Cyber Security
Whilst the rapidly advancing nature of technology and the continual integration of the Group’s 
operations with technological progress has enhanced and streamlined processes and controls 
across the Group and opened up opportunities, it has resulted in increased vulnerability for the 
Group from a digital standpoint. As a result, the Board places significant emphasis on ensuring 
that the Group’s soft and hard infrastructure is designed in a manner, and adequate, to deal with 
a potential breach. Data protection and cyber security are regularly addressed during the Risk 
Management and Audit Committee meetings and periodically discussed at a Board level.
Data Protection, Information Management and Adoption
The presence of continuously evolving IT infrastructure and platforms to meet requirements of 
day-to-day business, continues to augur well for the Group. Although the Group continues to 
witness an acceleration of digitisation and better user adoption, the adoption of such systems and 
features remain at a relatively early stage across the Group and is a key focus area for the Group. 
Given the emergence of regulations such as the European Union General Data Protection 
Regulation (GDPR) and the Sri Lankan Personal Data Protection Act No. 9 of 2022, data security, 
integrity and information management has become pivotal. In addition to this, the Group’s 
initiatives on advanced data analytics also necessitate an established governance framework to 
manage the flow of data. To this end, the Group will continue to strengthen its data governance 
structure to ensure ownership and accountability of clearly articulated data governance policies 
and processes and Group-wide data quality standards. 
Greater Employee Involvement in Governance
Whilst all necessary compliance and assurance frameworks are believed to be in place, JKH 
recognises the pivotal role played by employees in reinforcing an effective governance system 
across the Group. JKH will continue to encourage greater employee participation through: 
	y
a further strengthened continuous performance management process, which envisages 
continuous feedback and enhanced engagement via employee information systems. 
	y
engagement and empowerment via greater delegation of authority. 
	y
increased communication and collaboration. 
	y
adoption of differentiated means of communication based on the age dynamics of employee 
segments. 
	y
ongoing training and refreshers on the Code of Conduct and related governance policies.

195
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
Statement of Compliance under Section 7.6 of the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) on Annual  
Report Disclosure
MANDATORY PROVISIONS - FULLY COMPLIANT
Rule
Compliance 
Status
Reference (within the 
JKH Annual Report)
(i)
Names of persons who were Directors of the Company
Yes
Corporate Governance 
Commentary
(ii)
Principal activities of the entity and its subsidiaries during the year, and any changes therein
Yes
Management Discussion 
and Analysis
(iii)
The names and the number of shares held by the 20 largest holders of voting and non-voting 
shares and the percentage of such shares held
Yes
Share Information
(iv)
The float adjusted market capitalisation, public holding percentage (%), number of public 
shareholders and under which option the Listed Entity complies with the Minimum Public 
Holding requirement. 
The public holding percentage in respect of non- voting Shares (where applicable)
Yes
Not Applicable
(v)
A statement of each Director’s holding and Chief Executive Officer’s holding in shares of the 
Entity at the beginning and end of each financial year
Yes
(vi)
Information pertaining to material foreseeable risk factors of the Entity
Yes
Risk, Opportunities and 
Internal Controls
(vii)
Details of material issues pertaining to employees and industrial relations of the Entity
Yes
Sustainability Integration, 
Stakeholder Engagement 
and Materiality
(viii)
Extents, locations, valuations and the number of buildings of the Entity’s land holdings and 
investment properties
Yes
Group Real Estate Portfolio
(ix)
Number of shares representing the Entity’s stated capital
Yes
Share Information
(x)
A distribution schedule of the number of holders in each class of equity securities, and the 
percentage of their total holdings
Yes
(xi)
Financial ratios and market price information
Yes
(xii)
Significant changes in the Company’s or its subsidiaries’ fixed assets, and the market value of 
land, if the value differs substantially from the book value 
Yes
Notes to the Financial 
Statements
(xiii)
Details of funds raised through a public issue, rights issue and a private placement during  
the year
Yes
Share Information
(xiv)
Information in respect of Employee Share Ownership or Stock Option Schemes
Yes
(xv)
Disclosures pertaining to Corporate Governance practices in terms of Rules 7.10.3, 7.10.5 c. and 
7.10.6 c. of Section 7 of the Listing Rules
Yes
Corporate Governance 
Commentary/Note 44 of 
the Notes to the Financial 
Statements
(xvi)
Related Party transactions exceeding 10% of the equity or 5% of the total assets of the Entity as 
per audited financial statements, whichever is lower
Yes
CSE Rule
Compliance
Status
JKH Action / Reference (within the Report)
7.10	
Compliance
a./b./c. Compliance with Corporate Governance Rules
Yes
The Group is in compliance with the Corporate Governance Rules and 
any deviations are explained where applicable.
7.10.1	 Non-Executive Directors (NED)
a./b./c. At least 2 members or 1/3 of the Board, whichever 
is higher should be NEDs
Yes
5 out of 7 Board members are NEDs. The JKH Group is conscious of the 
need to maintain an appropriate mix of skills and experience on the 
Board and to refresh progressively its composition over time.
Statement of Compliance under Section 7.10 of the Listing Rules of the CSE on Corporate Governance
MANDATORY PROVISIONS - FULLY COMPLIANT

196 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMENTARY
CSE Rule
Compliance
Status
JKH Action / Reference (within the Report)
7.10.2	 Independent Directors
a.
2 or 1/3 of NEDs, whichever is higher shall be 
‘independent’
Yes
All NEDs are Independent.
b.
Each NED to submit a signed and dated 
declaration of his/her independence or non-
independence
Yes
Independence of the Directors has been determined in accordance 
with CSE Listing Rules and where relevant, Board determinations 
made. The 5 Independent NEDs have submitted signed declarations 
confirming independence.
7.10.3	 Disclosures Relating to Directors
a./b.
Board shall annually determine the independence 
or otherwise of NEDs
Yes
All Independent NEDs have submitted declarations as to their 
independence.
c.
A brief resume of each Director should be included in 
the annual report including the Directors’ experience
Yes
Corporate Governance Commentary 
d.
Provide a resume of new Directors appointed 
to the Board along with details to CSE for 
dissemination to the public 
Yes
Detailed resumes of the new Independent NEDs appointed are 
submitted to the CSE. Dr. S Coorey was newly appointed to the Board, 
during the year under review.
7.10.4	 Criteria for Defining Independence
a. to h.
Requirements for meeting the criteria to be an 
Independent Director
Yes
Corporate Governance Commentary
7.10.5	 Remuneration Committee
a.1
Remuneration Committee shall comprise of NEDs, 
a majority of whom will be independent
Yes
The Human Resources and Compensation Committee (equivalent of 
the Remuneration Committee with a wider scope) only comprises of 
Independent NEDs.
a.2
One NED shall be appointed as Chairman of the 
Committee by the Board of Directors
Yes
An Independent NED is the Chairperson of the Committee.
b.
Remuneration Committee shall recommend 
the remuneration of the CEO and the Executive 
Directors
Yes
The remuneration of the Chairperson-CEO and the Executive Directors 
is determined as per the remuneration principles of the Group and 
recommended by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee.
c.1
Names of Remuneration Committee members
Yes
Refer Board Committees section of the Annual Report.
c.2
Statement of Remuneration policy
Yes
Refer Director Remuneration section. 
c.3
Aggregate remuneration paid to EDs and NEDs
Yes
Refer Director Remuneration section.
7.10.6	 Audit Committee
a.1
Audit Committee (AC) shall comprise of NEDs, a 
majority of whom should be independent
Yes
The Audit Committee comprises only of Independent NEDs. 
a.2
A NED shall be the Chairman of the committee
Yes
The Chairperson of the Audit Committee is the Senior Independent NED. 
a.3
CEO and CFO should attend AC meetings, unless 
otherwise determined by AC
Yes
The Chairperson-CEO, Group Finance Director, Group Financial 
Controller and the External Auditors attended most parts of the AC 
meetings by invitation. 
a.4
The Chairman of the AC or one member should be a 
member of a recognised professional accounting body
Yes
The Chairperson of the AC is a member of a recognised professional 
accounting body. 
b.
Functions of the AC
Yes
The AC carries out all the functions prescribed in this section. 
b.1
Overseeing of the preparation, presentation and 
adequacy of disclosures in the financial statements 
in accordance with SLFRS/LKAS
Yes
The AC assists the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities for the 
integrity of the financial statements of the Company and the Group. 
b.2
Overseeing the compliance with financial 
reporting requirements, information requirements 
as per laws and related regulations and 
requirements
Yes
The AC has the overall responsibility for overseeing the preparation of 
financial statements in accordance with the laws and regulations of 
the country and also recommending to the Board, on the adoption of 
best accounting policies. 
b.3
Overseeing the process to ensure that the internal 
and risk management controls, are adequate, to 
meet the requirements of the SLFRS/LKAS
Yes
The AC assesses the role and the effectiveness of the Group Business 
Process Review division which is largely responsible for internal control 
and risk management.

197
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
Statement of Compliance under Section 9.3.2 of the Listing Rules of the CSE on Corporate Governance
MANDATORY PROVISIONS - FULLY COMPLIANT
Rule
Compliance 
Status
Reference (within the JKH Annual Report)
(a)
Details pertaining to Non-Recurrent Related Party Transactions
Yes
Notes to the Financial Statements
(b)
Details pertaining to Recurrent Related Party Transactions
Yes
Notes to the Financial Statements
(c)
Report of the Related Party Transactions Review Committee
Yes
Refer Report of the Related Party Transactions 
Review Committee
(d)
Declaration by the Board of Directors as an affirmative statement of 
compliance with the rules pertaining to Related Party Transactions, or a 
negative statement otherwise
Yes
Annual Report of the Board of Directors
Statement of Compliance pertaining to the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007
MANDATORY PROVISIONS - FULLY COMPLIANT
Rule
Compliance 
Status
Reference (within the JKH Annual Report)
168 (1) (a)
The nature of the business of the Company or subsidiaries or classes of 
business in which it has an interest together with any change thereto 
Yes
Group Directory 
168 (1) (b)
Signed financial statements of the Group and the Company 
Yes
Financial Statements  
168 (1) (c)
Auditors’ Report on financial statements 
Yes
Independent Auditors’ Report  
168 (1) (d)
Accounting policies and any changes thereto
Yes
Notes to the Financial Statements
168 (1) (e)
Particulars of the entries made in the Interests Register 
Yes
Annual Report of the Board of Directors 
168 (1) (f)
Remuneration and other benefits paid to Directors of the Company 
Yes
Notes to the Financial Statements 
168 (1) (g)
Corporate donations made by the Company 
Yes
Notes to the Financial Statements 
168 (1) (h)
Information on the Directorate of the Company and its subsidiaries 
during and at the end of the accounting period
Yes
Group Directory 
168 (1) (i)
Amounts paid/payable to the External Auditor as audit fees and fees 
for other services rendered 
Yes
Notes to the Financial Statements
168 (1) (j)
Auditors’ relationship or any interest with the Company and its 
Subsidiaries
Yes
Report of the Audit Committee / Financial 
Statements 
168 (1) (k)
Acknowledgement of the contents of this Report and signatures on 
behalf of the Board
Yes
Financial Statements / Annual Report of the 
Board of Directors 
168 (2)
Information specified in paragraphs (b) to (j) of subsection (1) in 
relation to Subsidiaries.
Yes 
Financial Statements / Annual Report of the 
Board of Directors
CSE Rule
Compliance
Status
JKH Action / Reference (within the Report)
b.4
Assessment of the independence and performance 
of the Entity’s External Auditors
Yes
The AC assesses the external auditor’s performance, qualifications and 
independence.
b.5
Make recommendations to the Board pertaining to 
External Auditors
Yes
The Committee is responsible for recommending the appointment, 
re-appointment or removal of External Auditors and also providing 
recommendations on remuneration and terms of Engagement.
c.1
Names of the Audit Committee members shall be 
disclosed
Yes
Refer Board Committees section.
c.2
Audit Committee shall make a determination of 
the independence of the external auditors
Yes
Refer Report of the Audit Committee.
c.3
Report on the manner in which Audit Committee 
carried out its functions and manner of compliance 
of Company in relation to the above.
Yes
Refer Report of the Audit Committee.

198 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
SUSTAINABILITY INTEGRATION, STAKEHOLDER 
ENGAGEMENT AND MATERIALITY
OUR APPROACH
The Group has in place a sound sustainability integration process, 
management framework and sustainability organisational structure 
through which sustainable practices are embedded in the Group’s 
operations. 
Sustainability Integration Process
S
u
s
t
a
i
n
a
b
i
li
t
y
 
I
n
t
e
g
r
a
t
i
o
n
	
S
u
s
t
a
i
n
a
b
i
li
t
y
 
I
n
t
e
g
r
a
t
i
o
n
Sustainability Initiatives to 
Manage Areas of Concern, 
Goal Setting and External 
Reporting
Identification 
of Risks, 
Opportunities 
and Stakeholder 
Concerns
Sustainability Policy 
and Management 
Framework 
IT Platform for 
Providing Management 
Information and 
Variance Control
Internal and 
External 
Sustainability 
Assurance 
and Standard 
Operating 
Procedures
The Group’s well-established sustainability integration processes and 
its Sustainability Management Framework (SMF) works alongside other 
key functions and management systems such as human resources, 
health and safety and product responsibility processes, as well as risk 
management, internal audit, legal and statutory compliance and corporate 
social responsibility initiatives. The SMF is updated on a continuous 
basis to incorporate changing requirements and updates to the global 
sustainability landscape.
Sustainability Organisation Structure
The Group firmly embeds sustainability concerns within the Group’s 
strategic planning process, with companies striving to optimise 
performance from a triple bottom line lens. All business units are required 
to identify non-financial risks alongside material impacts and include 
strategies to address these through sustainability initiatives and projects. 
Business and individual objectives are therefore aligned with overall 
sustainability goals, resulting in an entrenched culture of sustainability.
The SMF extends beyond Group boundaries, also focusing on the 
Group’s value chain with the purpose of benefiting suppliers and their 
own dependent supply chains. Through its Supplier Code of Conduct, 
annual assessment of supply chain partners and ongoing awareness 
and engagement through Supplier Fora, the Group hopes to have a 
positive impact on key external stakeholders.
The Group remains steadfast in its commitment to being responsible 
and conducting operations in a sustainable manner whilst focusing 
on environmental, social and governance aspects.
Sustainable practices remain a strategic priority of the Group and this is ensured through embedding sustainability into day to day operations.
Group Executive Committee
Sustainability, Enterprise Risk Management and Group 
Initiatives Division
Business Units
Responsible for formulating and steering the Group’s overall 
sustainability strategy.
Operationalises the SMF and carries out Group-wide processes, 
including identification of stakeholder and material issues, 
stakeholder engagements, risk assessments, Group-wide 
awareness campaigns and overall review and monitoring of 
the SMF.
Each business unit is responsible for their sustainability 
performance, operating under the umbrella of the Group’s 
SMF. Sustainability Champions under the leadership of their 
respective Heads of Business/Sector Heads, and working closely 
with the central sustainability division, have responsibility for 
implementing sustainability initiatives and management of 
performance of their individual businesses.
SUSTAINABILITY DISCLOSURES
The Group uses both its Annual Integrated Report and corporate 
website as the primary means of responding to stakeholder concerns 
and outlining its sustainability strategy, including materiality 
assessments and management policies and processes. The data 
measurement techniques, calculation methodologies, assumptions 
and estimations applied in the compilation of the sustainability 
indicators contained in this Report, are in accordance with standard 
industry practices and the GRI Standard. Such data measurement 
techniques, methodologies, assumptions and estimations are detailed 
in the relevant Management Approach Disclosures section and can 
be found online at https://keells.com/esg/#sustainability. Reference to 
specific information and disclosures required by the GRI Standards 
can be found through the GRI context index. Figures and statements 
have been rearranged wherever necessary to conform to the present 
year’s presentation in terms of restatements and comparisons to the 
previous year. 

199
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
CHANGES TO THE REPORTING BOUNDARY 
During the year under review, four new ‘Keells’ outlets were added while 
one was removed due to closure. A centralised distribution centre also 
was included in the sustainability reporting scope.
OUR STAKEHOLDERS
The Group defines significant stakeholders as those who have significant 
influence over or are significantly affected by the Group’s operations. Given 
the diverse operations in several industry groups over varied geographical 
markets, the Group’s interacts with a wide range of stakeholders who 
represent the communities and regions within which it operates. 
Identify 
stakeholders
Mapping and 
prioritising 
stakeholders
Stakeholder 
engagement
Feedback
The Group identifies its internal stakeholders as its business units and 
employees whilst its external stakeholders consist of shareholders, 
investors, lenders, customers, suppliers and value chain, business 
partners, Government and regulatory authorities, peers, pressure groups, 
media and the community.
The Group has established a number of different platforms for dialogue 
and communication to incorporate stakeholder perspectives and 
concerns into the Group’s policies and commitments. The mechanisms 
by which the Group manages and conducts its engagement with 
significant stakeholders on an ongoing basis, include formal and 
informal consultations, participation, negotiations, communication, 
mandatory and voluntary disclosures, certification and accreditation. 
The following section details the various methods and frequencies of engagement with its significant stakeholders:
Stakeholder Expectations
Methods of Engagement
Significance of 
Stakeholder
Customers – individual, corporate B2B
	y
Meet requirements for products and 
services
	y
Ensure high quality and safe products 
and services
	y
Environmentally and socially responsible 
products and services
	y
Road shows, trade fairs and field visits - Annually
	y
One-on-one meetings, discussion forums, progress reviews - 
Biannually
	y
Customer satisfaction surveys - Quarterly
	y
Information dissemination through printed reports, telephone, SMS, 
e-mail, corporate website, workshops and business development 
activities - Ongoing
	y
Growth of business 
and brands
Employees – directors, executives, non-executives
	y
Provide a safe and enabling environment
	y
Ensure equal opportunity within a 
meritocratic culture
	y
Enhancement of skills and knowledge, 
continuous engagement
	y
Work-life balance
	y
Employee satisfaction surveys, Group-wide year end get-together - 
Annually
	y
Performance reviews, skip level meetings - Bi-annually
	y
Intranet communications - Regularly
	y
Training and development, team building, joint consultative 
committees, open door policy, sports events, Corporate Social 
Responsibility programmes - Ongoing
	y
Human Capital and 
productivity
Community – neighbours, community, community leaders, society
	y
Stimulate local economy through 
procurement
	y
Provide direct and indirect employment
	y
Operations with minimal impact on 
shared natural resources
	y
Community engagement prior to entry and on exit via one-on-one 
meetings, workshops, forums – One-off
	y
Regular engagement while operating via one-on-one meetings, 
workshops, forums - Monthly
	y
Corporate Social Responsibility programmes - Ongoing
	y
Social license to 
operate
Institutional investors, fund managers, analysts, leaders, multilateral lenders
	y
Consistent economic performance
	y
Economic value generation
	y
Annual reports, disclosures and reviews – Annually
	y
Quarterly reports - Quarterly
	y
Investor road shows - Regular
	y
Phone calls, e-mail, written communication, websites, one-on-one 
meetings - Ongoing
	y
Growth and equity
Government, Government institutions and departments
	y
Contribute to economy through strategic 
investments
	y
Create direct and indirect employment
	y
Timely payment of taxes and levies
	y
Participation of senior management in chambers and industry 
associations - Quarterly
	y
Meetings, business forums, newsletters, circulars, presentations and 
briefings, advisory meetings of industry associates - Ongoing
	y
Provision of trading 
conditions

200 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
SUSTAINABILITY INTEGRATION, STAKEHOLDER 
ENGAGEMENT AND MATERIALITY
KEY SUSTAINABILITY CONCERNS
Based on the findings of the most recent quantitative and qualitative 
stakeholder engagements, alongside review of regulatory requirements, risk 
management process outcomes, input from processes such as grievance 
handling and human rights related impacts, emerging best practices and 
attention to media, the Group strives to identify and manage any areas of 
concern and ensure required action is carried out in a structured manner. 
Environmental, social and governance concerns are scrutinised by 
shareholders and investors alongside their demand for long-term 
returns on investment and these concerns are responded to and 
managed through the Group’s annual integrated reporting, and through 
strengthening and updating of its policies and management frameworks 
as necessary. Such areas of importance to stakeholders such as society, 
pressure groups and regulatory authorities are issues of high priority 
that the Group addresses through its environment and biodiversity 
management systems and policies, in addition to engaging with and 
positively impacting local communities and its value chain through its 
corporate social responsibility programme and supplier management 
frameworks. Supplier assessments highlight any gaps related to material 
sustainability focus areas and are addressed through supplier engagements 
methods such as regular meetings and knowledge sharing fora.
During the reporting year, the Group faced challenges related to 
volatility in the power and energy industry given its reliance on fuel 
and energy with the focus of moving to renewable sources of energy 
encouraged and given significant importance. Further disruptions to 
operations due to macroeconomic vulnerabilities was tackled through 
relevant mitigative action that assists the Group in managing its 
operations during the year. The Group also experienced an increase 
in labour migration triggered by the socio-economic environment in 
the country for which the Group continues closely monitor employee 
attrition and adopt measures to manage this to the extent possible.
MATERIALITY 
Identification and Management of Material Topics
The Group maps topics that are of concern to stakeholders and are 
significant in terms of its business to ascertain the criticality and priority 
for focus and disclosure. The Group continues to assess its internal and 
external materiality and its reporting scope will be expanded as and 
when a topic becomes material to the Group and its stakeholders. The 
prioritisation of material topics for reporting is as depicted below.
10, 11, 12, 14, 15 
16, 17, 20
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9
13, 18, 19, 21, 22
Materiality to internal stakeholders
Materiality to external stakeholders
Stakeholder Expectations
Methods of Engagement
Significance of 
Stakeholder
Legal and regulatory bodies
	y
Compliance with laws and regulations
	y
Practice sound corporate governance
	y
Participation of senior management in chambers and industry 
associations - Quarterly
	y
Meetings, periodic disclosures, correspondence - Ongoing
	y
License to operate
Business partners, principals, suppliers
	y
Long-term business relation and 
adherence to contractual obligations
	y
Knowledge sharing
	y
Representation in business councils and 
committees
	y
Distributor conferences, contract renegotiations and reviews, road 
shows, supplier assessments, supplier fora - Annually
	y
Supplier review meetings - Quarterly
	y
Market reports - Regularly
	y
Conference calls, e-mails, circulars, corporate website and sourcing, 
contracting and supplier management platform - Ongoing
	y
Inputs for goods and 
services
Society, media, pressure groups, NGOs, environmental groups
	y
Operate in accordance to social norms, 
cultures with minimal negative social and 
environmental impact
	y
Adhere to laws and regulations
	y
Operate as a responsible corporate citizen
	y
Website, press releases, media briefings, correspondence - Ongoing
	y
Information and 
trends
Industry peers and competition
	y
Ethical business practices
	y
Participation in business councils and 
committees
	y
Participation of senior management in chambers and industry 
associations - Quarterly
	y
Membership of trade associations, conferences, discussion forums - 
Regularly
	y
Collaboration and fair 
trading conditions
High
High

201
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
Topic 
Number
Material Topic
Relevant GRI Topic
Change 
Compared to 
FY2021/22
Actual/ Potential Impact
Approach
1
Volatility and vulnerabilities in the 
macroeconomic environment 
impacting Employees, Consumers, 
Communities and the Supply Chain 
Lower demand, supply 
disruptions, lower disposable 
income
	
Risk and Internal 
Controls
2
Economic Performance 
GRI 201: Economic 
Performance
-
Economic instability
	
Financial and 
Manufactured Capital
3
Loss of skilled staff due to 
increased local and global 
competition 
GRI 401: Employment
-
Service level and experience
	
Human Capital
4
Data security and customer 
privacy / Information governance 
and security 
-
Cyber attacks, loss of data
 	 Social and 
Relationship Capital 
5
Regulatory Compliance 
-
Compliance and legal issues 
	
Corporate Governance 
6
Business continuity and Energy 
management - Local and global 
fuel shortages 
GRI 302: Energy
Disruptions to operations
 	 Natural Capital
7
Increasing prices of product and 
services and price volatilities in 
the supply chain 
GRI 204: Procurement 
Practices
-
Disruptions to operations 
	
Risk and Internal 
Controls
8
Employee attraction, retention 
and skill resilience 
-
Employee attrition
 	 Human Capital
9
Changes in Taxation and 
Government levies 
GRI 207: Tax
-
Impacts from policy changes 
	
Corporate Governance 
10
Government policy uncertainty 
-
Negative impacts from policy 
changes
	
Outlook
11
Currency volatility and increased 
interest rates 
-
Increased cost of finance, 
positive and negative foreign 
exchange impact
	
Financial and 
Manufactured Capital 
12
Anti-corruption 
GRI 205: Anti-corruption
-
Impact on credibility
 	 Social and 
Relationship Capital
13
Local community development 
GRI 413: Local 
communities
-
Socioeconomic disparity
	
Social and 
Relationship Capital
14
Supply chain vulnerabilities 
due to pandemic and country’s 
economic crisis 
-
Disruptions to operations
	
Risk and Internal 
Controls
15
Manage environmental impacts 
created by our operations - 
Emissions/ Effluents and Waste 
Management 
GRI 302: Energy, GRI 303: 
Water and Effluents, 
GRI 305: Emissions, 
GRI 306: Effluents and 
Waste, GRI 306: Waste, 
GRI 307: Environmental 
Compliance
-
Regulatory issues 
 	Natural Capital
16
Climate change impact and 
resilience 
GRI 305: Emissions
-
Regulatory issues
	
Risk and internal 
controls
17
Employee health and safety 
GRI 403: Occupational 
Health and Safety
-
Loss of working hours/days
 	 Human Capital 
18
Diversity Equity and Inclusivity in 
the workplace 
GRI 405: Diversity and 
equal opportunity
-
Discrimination 
 	Human Capital
19
Brand Communication 
effectiveness (Ethical marketing 
and communication)
GRI 417: Marketing and 
Labelling
-
Brand reputation impact
	
Social and 
Relationship Capital
20
Customer relations/ retention 
-
Loss of customer confidence 
	
Social and 
Relationship Capital
21
Reduction of plastic usage and 
reclamation from customers
-
Brand reputation impact
 	 Natural Capital
22
Digitalisation 
-
	
Intellectual Capital 
  Policy in place            Goals in place 
A detailed description of the strategies and approach adopted by the Group in managing its material 
topics are contained in the management approach disclosures section hosted on the Group website  
https://www.keells.com/resource/Management_Approach_Disclosures_2022_23.pdf

202 
John Keells Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2022/23
RISKS, OPPORTUNITIES AND INTERNAL CONTROLS
ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
The Group’s comprehensive enterprise-wide risk management process 
ensures a structured approach to risk identification and mitigation, 
while adopting the same under the overall corporate governance and 
sustainability frameworks.
The year under review experienced the recovery from the pandemic 
to a greater extent following a successful global and local vaccination 
drive. The easing of or complete removal of restrictions created a positive 
sentiment towards travel and movement of goods. However, whilst the 
risk was downgraded, given the unprecedented nature of the pandemic, 
equipped with learnings from the previous years, all businesses 
continued to proactively monitor and revisit the ‘pandemic’ risk item.
The first half of the year under review proved to be yet another 
challenging one for the country with increased socio-political unrest 
triggered by the economic crisis. Addressing the challenges on the 
macroeconomic front, the Group continued with the various measures 
rolled-out last year to ensure a sustainable and agile operating model, 
with a focused view on cash management and liquidity. While the 
Group had a strong cash position and availability of banking facilities, 
continued focus was placed on ensuring balance sheet strength to 
support the investment pipeline of the Group. Continuing from the latter 
part of the previous year, the year under review was also characterised 
by significant challenges on the foreign exchange front, coupled with 
depreciation of the currency towards the first two quarters of the year 
under review. However, with the country successfully securing the first 
tranche New Extended Fund Facility (EFF) approved by the International 
Monetary Fund (IMF) executive board, along with the measures taken by 
the Central Bank of Sri Lanka in the form of monetary policy improved 
economic stability towards the latter part of the year, created a positive 
sentiment. The increased tourist arrivals especially toward the last 
quarter of the year created a further positive outlook to this end.
While the Group continued to maintain a strong cash position and 
availability of banking facilities, the Group adopted prudent measures, 
as and when required, to manage the financial impacts arising from 
the liquidity constraints and currency fluctuations through strategies 
such as matching liabilities with corresponding inflows. 
The agile work policy introduced in the previous year continued 
to prove successful with the Group facilitating remote working 
and increased digitisation of processes. Continuous and conscious 
measures were taken to further strengthen the information technology 
governance and cyber security framework of the Group. The adoption 
of the NIST Cybersecurity Framework and ZERO Trust model has 
provided the Group with the required governance, resilience as well 
as assurance, as deemed necessary, to accelerate the digital adoption 
across the Group. This will enable any user, any device from any 
location to be part of the Group’s digital ecosystems.
The Group finds it integral to effectively manage risk and uncertainty 
in its pursuit to build resilient and sustainable businesses. In ensuring 
this, the Group takes a comprehensive and integrated approach towards 
Risk Management, with processes incorporating good governance and 
sustainable development alongside effective risk management practices.
The period under review was a crucial one for the country amidst its economic, social and political challenges and recovery from the 
Covid-19 pandemic. Despite these challenges faced, the Group was successful in managing its risks and delivering value to its stakeholders 
equipped with its strong and robust risk management process in place.
Whilst the section that ensues discusses the key highlights for the year under review, the Corporate Website entails a detailed discussion of 
the risk management processes and related initiatives.
Key Risks
Rating
Trend 
Macroeconomic and political environment 
Regulatory environment 
Financial exposure 
Information technology 
Global competition 
Human resources and talent management 
Environment and, health and safety 
Reputation and brand image 
Supply chain risk 
Risk Rating:   Ultra-High 
 High 
 Medium 
 Low
Risk Trend:   Risk is Unchanged     Risk has Increased     Risk has Decreased
R
i
s
k
 
V
a
li
d
a
ti
o
n
R
is
k
 
N
o
r
m
a
l
is
a
t
i
o
n
R
i
s
k
 
R
e
p
o
r
t
i
n
g
R
i
s
k
 I
d
e
n
ti
fi
c
a
t
i
o
n
a
n
d
 
a
s
s
e
s
s
m
e
n
t
Formal quarterly review of 
their risk registers, which is 
also communicated to 
GMCs and audit 
committees 
where 
relevant for 
validation.
Risk identified, Assessed 
and rated at a Group 
level using a bottom-up 
approach.
Consolidation 
of Group risks 
are done on a bi-
annual basis and used 
to update the Group Executive 
Committee risk registers.
The status 
of Group Risks 
is reported on 
a bi-annual basis to 
the JKH Board and Board Audit 
Committee.

CONSOLID TING
205 Annual Report of the Board of Directors    210 The Statement of Directors’ Responsibility 
211 Independent Auditors’ Report    214 Income Statement    215 Statement of Comprehensive Income 
216 Statement of Financial Position    217 Statement of Cash Flows    218 Statement of Changes in Equity 
220 Notes to the Financial Statements
FINANCIAL INFORMATION

204 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
INDEX TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE AND GROUP INFORMATION 
1 	 Corporate information 	
220
2 	 Group information 	
220
BASIS OF PREPARATION AND OTHER SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING 
POLICIES
3	
Basis of preparation 	
220
4 	 Summary of significant accounting policies	
221
5 	 Significant accounting judgements, estimates and  
assumptions	
222
6 	 Changes in accounting standards 	
222
7 	 Standards issued but not yet effective	
222 
GROUP BUSINESS, OPERATIONS AND MANAGEMENT
8 	 Operating segment information 	
224
9 	 Basis of consolidation and material partly owned  
subsidiaries	
229
10 	 Business combinations and acquisitions of  
non-controlling interests	
231
11 	 Financial risk management objectives and policies	
232
12 	 Fair value measurement and related fair  
value disclosures	
241
13 	 Financial instruments and related policies	
243
NOTES TO THE INCOME STATEMENT, STATEMENT OF 
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME AND STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL 
POSITION
14 	 Revenue 	
248
15 	 Dividend income 	
251
16 	 Other operating income and other operating  
expenses	
251
17 	 Net finance income 	
252
18 	 Profit before tax 	
253
19 	 Earnings per share 	
253
20 	 Dividend per share 	
254
21 	 Taxes 	
254
22 	 Property, plant and equipment 	
260
23 	 Right of use assets and lease liabilities 	
265
24	 Investment properties 	
267
25 	 Intangible assets 	
269
26 	 Investment in subsidiaries 	
272
27 	 Investment in equity accounted investees	
275
28 	 Non current financial assets 	
278
29 	 Other non current assets 	
280
30 	 Inventories 	
280 
31 	 Trade and other receivables 	
281
32 	 Other current assets 	
281
33 	 Short term investments 	
281
34 	 Stated capital and other components of equity	
283
35 	 Share-based payment plans 	
284
36 	 Insurance contract liabilities 	
286
37 	 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings	
289
38	 Employee benefit liabilities 	
292
39 	 Non current financial liabilities	
294
40	 Other non current liabilities	
295
41 	 Trade and other payables 	
295
42 	 Short term borrowings 	
295
43 	 Other current liabilities 	
295
44 	 Related party transactions 	
296
OTHER DISCLOSURES 
45 	 Contingent liabilities 	
301
46 	 Capital and other commitments 	
302
47 	 Assets pledged 	
302
48	 Events after the reporting period 	
302
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS	
205
THE STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY	
210
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT 	
211
INCOME STATEMENT	
214
STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME	
215
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION 	
216
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 	
217
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 	
218
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS	
220

205
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF 
DIRECTORS
The Directors have pleasure in presenting the 
44th Annual Report of your Company which 
covers the Audited Financial Statements, 
Chairperson’s Message, Corporate Governance 
Commentary, Management Discussion and 
Analysis including Industry Group Review 
and all the other relevant information for the 
year ended 31 March 2023. Disclosures which 
appear in the Share Information section form 
a part of the Annual Report of the Board 
of Directors as it is a requirement of the 
Companies Act No. 07 of 2007.
The management has formed judgment 
that the Company, its subsidiaries, associates 
and joint ventures have adequate resources 
to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future driven by the continuous 
operationalisation of risk mitigation initiatives 
and monitoring of business continuity and 
response plans at each business unit level 
along with the financial strength of the Group. 
The Group’s Outlook has been presented in 
page 135 in the Annual Report.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Financial Statements of the Company and 
Group for the year ended 31 March 2023, 
which have been prepared in accordance 
with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRS/
LKAS) with the inclusion of the signatures 
of the Chairperson, Deputy Chairperson/
Group Finance Director and Group Financial 
Controller, are given as a part of the Integrated 
Annual Report.
John Keells Holdings PLC
For the year ended 31 March 
2023
2022
In Rs.‘000s 
Profit after tax
14,709,284
24,381,407
Other adjustments
(714,742)
(3,810)
Balance brought forward from the previous year
89,889,818
67,557,002
Amount available for appropriation
103,884,360
91,934,599
Interim dividends of Rs.1.50 per share (2022-Rs.1.00) paid out of 
dividend received
(2,077,375)
(1,352,323)
Final dividend declared Rs.0.50 (2022-Rs.0.50)
(692,458)
(692,458)
Balance to be carried forward to the next year
101,114,527
89,889,818
non-controlling interests are provided in Note 
10 to the Financial Statements. These reports, 
together with the audited financial statements, 
reflect the state of affairs of the Company and 
the Group. The segment-wise contribution to 
Group revenue, results, assets and liabilities are 
provided in Note 8 to the Financial Statements.
FINANCIAL RESULTS AND APPROPRIATIONS
Accounting Policies
All the significant accounting policies adopted 
by the Company and Group are provided in the 
Notes to the Financial Statements. There have 
been no changes in the accounting policies 
adopted by the Group during the year under 
review. For all periods up to and including 
the year ended 31 March 2023, the Group 
prepared its financial statements in accordance 
with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRS/
LKAS) which have materially converged 
with the International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS) as issued by the International 
Accounting Standards Board (IASB).
Revenue
Revenue generated by the Company 
amounted to Rs.2,544 Mn (2022– Rs.1,876 Mn), 
whilst Group revenue amounted to Rs.276,640 
Mn (2022 – Rs.218,075 Mn). Contribution to 
Group revenue, from the different business 
segments, is provided in Note 8 to the Financial 
Statements.
Profit and Appropriations
The profit after tax of the Company was 
Rs.14,709 Mn (2022 – Rs.24,381 Mn) whilst the 
Group profit attributable to equity holders of 
the parent for the year was Rs.18,174 Mn (2022 
- Rs.20,213 Mn).
The Company’s total comprehensive income 
net of tax was Rs.15,925 Mn (2022 - Rs.26,570 
Mn), and the Group total comprehensive 
income attributable to parent was  
Rs.24,449 Mn (2022 - Rs.76,733 Mn).
Dividend and Reserves
As required by Section 56(2) of the Companies 
Act No 7 of 2007, the Board of Directors have 
confirmed that the Company satisfies the 
solvency test in accordance with Section 57 
of the Companies Act No 7 of 2007, and has 
obtained certificates from the auditors, prior to 
declaring all dividends. 
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
John Keells Holdings PLC (the Company), 
the Group’s Holding Company, manages a 
portfolio of holdings consisting of a range of 
diverse business operations, which, together, 
constitute the John Keells Group (the Group), 
and provides function-based services to its 
subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates.
The companies within the Group and its 
business activities are described in the 
Group Directory under the Supplementary 
Information section of the Annual Report. 
There were no significant changes to the 
principal activities of the Company or its 
subsidiaries during the year.
CORPORATE VISION AND VALUES
A culture of innovation, integrity, excellence, 
caring and trust has been developed within 
the Group. By being aligned with these values 
the Directors and employees conduct their 
activities to achieve the vision, “Building 
businesses that are leaders in the region”.
REVIEW OF BUSINESS SEGMENTS
A review of the financial and operational 
performance and future business 
developments of the Group, sectors, and 
its business units are described in the 
Management Discussion and Analysis section 
of the Annual Report. Significant changes 
to business combinations and acquisition of 

206 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
A final dividend will be paid on or before 
21 June 2023 to those shareholders on the 
register as of 31 May 2023.
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE
The Company’s and Group’s capital 
expenditure on property, plant and equipment 
amounted to Rs.102 Mn (2022 - Rs.14 Mn) and 
Rs.7,074 Mn (2022 - Rs.6,627 Mn), respectively, 
and all other related information and 
movements have been disclosed in Note 22 to 
the Financial Statements.
Additions of intangible assets of the Company 
and Group during the year amounted to Nil 
(2022 - Rs.30 Mn) and Rs.1,296 Mn (2022 - 
Rs.1,360 Mn), respectively, and all other related 
movements are disclosed in Note 25 to the 
Financial Statements.
VALUATION OF LAND, BUILDINGS AND 
INVESTMENT PROPERTIES
All land and buildings owned by Group 
companies were revalued as at 31 December 
2022 and the carrying value amounted to 
Rs.110,716 Mn (2022 - Rs.101,326 Mn). All 
information related to revaluation is given in 
Note 22.3 to the Financial Statements.
Investment properties of business units, when 
significantly occupied by Group companies, 
are classified as property, plant and equipment 
in the consolidated financial statements in 
compliance with LKAS 40.
The Group revalued all its investment 
properties as at 31 December 2022, and the 
carrying value amounted to Rs.33,029 Mn 
(2022- Rs.30,608 Mn). All information related 
to revaluation of the investment properties 
is provided in Note 24 to the Financial 
Statements. 
Details of the Group’s real estate as at 31 March 
2023, are disclosed in the Group Real Estate 
Portfolio in the Supplementary Information 
section of the Annual Report.
INVESTMENTS
Detailed description of the long term 
investments held as at the reporting date, is 
given in Notes 26, 27 and 28 to the Financial 
Statements.
STATED CAPITAL
Stated Capital as at 31 March 2023 of the 
Company amounted to Rs.73,188 Mn 
(2022 - Rs.73,188 Mn). The movement and 
composition of the Stated Capital is disclosed 
in the Statement of Changes in Equity and in 
Note 34.1 to the Financial Statements.
ISSUE OF UNLISTED CONVERTIBLE 
DEBENTURES TO HWIC ASIA FUND, A 
SUBSIDIARY OF FAIRFAX FINANCIAL 
HOLDINGS LIMITED
John Keells Holdings PLC raised foreign direct 
investments of Rs.27.06 billion by way of an 
unlisted convertible debenture issue to HWIC 
Asia Fund, a subsidiary of Fairfax Holdings 
Limited, on 12 August 2022.
REVENUE RESERVES
Revenue reserves as at 31 March 2023 for 
the Company and Group amounted to 
Rs.101,807 Mn (2022 - Rs.90,582 Mn) and 
Rs.121,743 Mn (2022 - Rs.109,087 Mn), 
respectively. The movement of the revenue 
reserve is disclosed in the Statement of 
Changes in Equity.
SHARE INFORMATION
The distribution and composition of 
shareholders and the information relating 
to earnings, dividends, net assets, market 
value per share and share trading is given 
in the Share Information section of the 
Annual Report. As additional disclosures, the 
Company’s Board of Directors’ (including their 
close family members) shareholdings, options 
available under the employee share option 
(ESOP) plans as at 31 March 2023, market 
capitalisation, public holding percentage and 
number of public shareholders are given in 
the Share Information section of the Annual 
Report. 
MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS
Details of the twenty largest shareholders 
of the Company and the percentages held 
by each of them are disclosed in the Share 
Information section of the Annual Report.
EQUITABLE TREATMENT OF SHAREHOLDERS 
The Company has at all times ensured that all 
shareholders are treated equitably.
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
The Board of Directors of the Company as at 
31 March 2023 and their brief profiles are given 
in the Corporate Governance section of the 
Annual Report.
RETIREMENT AND RE-ELECTION OF 
DIRECTORS 
Retirement and Re-Election of Directors of the 
Company as at 31 March 2023 are given in the 
Proxy Form.
REVIEW OF THE PERFORMANCE OF THE 
BOARD
The performance of the board has been 
appraised through a formalised process, 
where each individual Director anonymously 
comments on the dynamics of the Board. 
The process is described in the Corporate 
Governance Commentary section of the 
Annual Report.
BOARD COMMITTEES
Information relating to members of the 
Audit Committee, Human Resources and 
Compensation Committee, Nominations 
Committee, Related Party Transactions Review 
Committee and Project Risk Assessment 
Committee, including reports of each of the 
committees, where applicable, and attendance 
of Directors for each of the committee 
meetings, are disclosed in the Corporate 
Governance Commentary section of the 
Annual Report.
INTERESTS REGISTER AND INTERESTS IN 
CONTRACTS
The Company has maintained an Interests 
Register as contemplated by the Companies 
Act No 7 of 2007.
This Annual Report also contains particulars 
of entries made in the Interests Registers of 
subsidiaries which are public companies or 
private companies which have not dispensed 
with the requirement to maintain an Interests 
Register as permitted by Section 30 of the 
Companies Act No 7 of 2007.
The Directors have all made a general 
disclosure relating to share dealings and 
indemnities and remuneration to the Board 
of Directors as permitted by Section 192 (2) 
of the Companies Act No 7 of 2007 and no 
additional interests have been disclosed by 
any Director. The Interest Register is available at 
the registered head office of the Company, in 
keeping with the requirements of the section 
119 (1) (d) of the Companies Act No 7 of 2007. 
SHARE DEALINGS
Other than for following entries, particulars of 
the Company interest register are disclosed in 
the Share Information section of the Annual 
Report. 

207
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
John Keells Holdings PLC 
•	 Phoenix Ventures (Pvt) Ltd [M A Omar - 
(resigned w.e.f. 27 June 2022) and  
A N Fonseka - Directors] Purchase of 
6,829,622 shares
•	 Mr. D A Cabraal (Director) Purchase of 
100,000 shares
Given below are the particulars of share 
dealings of subsidiaries reported, for 
subsidiaries which are public companies, or 
private companies, which have not dispensed 
with the requirement to maintain an interest 
register for the period from 1 April 2022 to 31 
March 2023.
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC 
•	 K C Subasinghe (Director) - Purchase of 
45,000 shares
INDEMNITIES AND REMUNERATION 
The Board approved the payment of 
remuneration of the following Executive 
Directors for the period of 1 April 2022 to 31 
March 2023 comprising of; 
•	 A fixed element
•	 A short term variable incentive based on 
the individual performance, organisation 
performance and role responsibility 
based on the results of the financial year 
2021/2022, and 
•	 A long term incentive plan including 
employee share options in John Keells 
Holdings PLC.
John Keells Holdings PLC
• 	 K N J Balendra
• 	 J G A Cooray
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC
• 	 D P Gamlath
• 	 P N Fernando
Cinnamon Hotel Management Ltd
• 	 J E P Kehelpannala (retired w.e.f. 31 
December 2022) 
• 	 M H Singhawansa
Walkers Tours Ltd
• 	 I N Amaratunga
All approvals relating to indemnities and 
remuneration have been recommended by 
the Human Resources and Compensation 
Committee, taking into consideration inputs 
from market surveys, expert opinions and the 
specific management complexities associated 
with the John Keells Group and in keeping 
with the Group remuneration policy.
The contracts and standard director fees of the 
following Non-Executive Directors have been 
approved / renewed by the Board. The director 
fees are commensurate with the market 
complexities associated with the Group.
John Keells Holdings PLC
•	 D A Cabraal
•	 A N Fonseka
•	 S S H Wijayasuriya
•	 M P Perera
•	 S A Coorey (appointed w.e.f 1 January 2023)
Asian Hotels & Properties PLC
•	 J Durairatnam
•	 A S De Zoysa
•	 A Nanayakkara
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC
•	 M Hamza
•	 R S W Wijeratnam
•	 S T Ratwatte
John Keells PLC
•	 A K Gunawardhana
•	 B A I Rajakarier
•	 C N Wijewardane
John Keells Hotels PLC
•	 A K Moonesinghe
•	 H Premaratne (appointed w.e.f 7 July 2022)
•	 K A Gunasekera
Keells Food Products PLC
•	 S De Silva
•	 A E H Sanderatne
•	 I Samarajiva
•	 P D Samarasinghe
Tea Smallholders Factories PLC
•	 A Goonetilleke
•	 S K L Obeyesekere
•	 A S Jayatilleke
Trans Asia Hotels PLC
•	 N L Gooneratne
•	 H A J De S Wijeyeratne
•	 S A Atukorale (appointed w.e.f 22 June 2022)
Union Assurance PLC
• 	 D H Fernando
•	 S A Appleyard
Fees payable to Non-Executive Nominee 
Directors of John Keells Holdings PLC was 
paid to John Keells Holdings PLC and not to 
individual Directors.
During the 2022/2023 financial following Non-
Executive Directors retired/resigned from the 
boards of the John Keells Group.
•	 M A Omar retired from the John Keells 
Holdings PLC Board w.e.f 27 June 2022.
•	 T L F W Jayasekera retired from the John 
Keells Hotels PLC board w.e.f 22 June 2022.
•	 J E P Kehelpannala resigned from the John 
Keells Hotels PLC board w.e.f 31 December 
2022 consequent to his retirement from the 
Group.
•	 J C Ponniah retired from the Trans Asia 
Hotels PLC board w.e.f 21 June 2022.
•	 W M De Fonseka Arsakularatne resigned 
from the Union Assurance PLC board w.e.f 6 
March 2023.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
Details of the remuneration and other benefits 
received by the Directors are set out in Note 
44.7 to the Financial Statements.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
The Company’s transactions with Related 
Parties, given in Note 44 to the Financial 
Statements, have complied with the 
Colombo Stock Exchange Listing Rule 9.3.2 
and the Code of Best Practices on Related 
Party Transactions under the Securities and 
Exchange Commission Directive issued under 
Section 13(c) of the Securities and Exchange 
Commission Act.
EMPLOYEE SHARE OPTION PLAN (ESOP)
At the beginning of the year, the employee 
share option plan consisted of the Tenth and 
Eleventh plans approved by the shareholders 
on 28 June 2019 and 24 June 2022 respectively.
The Directors confirm that the Company has 
not granted any funding to employees to 
exercise options.
Details of the options granted, options 
exercised, the grant price and the options 

208 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
cancelled or lapsed and outstanding as at the 
date of the Directors’ Report, as required by the 
Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange, 
are given under the Share Information section 
of the Annual Report.
The highest, lowest and the closing prices of 
the Company shares are disclosed in the Share 
Information section of the Annual Report.
EMPLOYMENT
The Group adopts an equal opportunity 
policy and these principles are enshrined in 
specific selection, training, development and 
promotion policies, ensuring that all decisions 
are based on merit. The Group practices 
equality of opportunity for all employees 
irrespective of ethnic origin, religion, political 
opinion, gender, marital status or physical 
disability. Employee ownership in the 
Company is facilitated through the employee 
share option plan.
Details of the Group’s human resource 
initiatives are detailed in the Human Capital 
section of the Capital Management Review 
section of the Annual Report.
The number of persons employed by the 
Company and Group as at 31 March 2023 was 
145 (2022 - 152) and 15,943 (2022 - 15,551), 
respectively.
There have been no material issues pertaining 
to employees and industrial relations of the 
Company and the Group.
EQUITY & INCLUSION POLICY
The Group recognises the importance of 
diversity, equity and inclusion and the role 
it plays in ensuring workplace respect, 
organisational success and sustainability for 
all stakeholders. In this regard, it is committed 
to providing a working environment where 
all employees are included, their diversity is 
embraced and where their contributions are 
valued. The Group believes that its workforce 
should reflect the diversity of the communities 
in which its businesses operate and the diverse 
set of stakeholders it creates value for, within 
the organisation and with its partners and 
vendors, and that positive relationships with 
stakeholder groups, which are also diverse 
and inclusive, will enable businesses to further 
augment its diversity and growth journey. 
The Group recognises that organisations that 
constitute diverse and inclusive workforces 
are best placed to innovate, retain talent and 
deliver better overall results and firmly believes 
that it can achieve its highest potential through 
bringing together diverse perspectives and 
backgrounds. It is committed to advancing 
a culture of equitable inclusion amongst its 
workforce and value chain and ensuring that 
the dignity and diversity of all employees and 
value chain partners are respected.
SUPPLIER POLICY
The Group applies an overall policy of 
agreeing and clearly communicating the 
terms of payment as part of the commercial 
agreements negotiated with suppliers, and 
endeavours to pay for all items in accordance 
with these agreed terms. The significant 
macroeconomic volatility and impacts on 
supply chains during the first half of the year 
necessitated discussions with suppliers to 
ensure minimal disruptions in operations. As at 
31 March 2023, the trade and other payables of 
the Company and Group amounted to Rs.631 
Mn (2022 - Rs.566 Mn) and Rs.29,866 Mn (2022 
- Rs.43,469 Mn), respectively.
The Group strives to integrate principles 
of sustainable practices and policies in its 
value chain through extensive stakeholder 
consultations, the findings of which are 
integrated into work-plans. 
RATIOS AND MARKET PRICE INFORMATION 
The ratios relating to listed equity, debt and 
market price information as required by 
the listing requirements of the Colombo 
Stock Exchange are given under the Share 
Information section of this Report.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Board of Directors is committed 
towards maintaining an effective Corporate 
Governance Framework by effectively 
implementing systems and structures required 
to ensuring best practices in Corporate 
Governance. The manner in which the 
Company has complied with Section 7.10 
of the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock 
Exchange (CSE) on Corporate Governance 
are contained in the Corporate Governance 
section of this report. 
SUSTAINABILITY
The Group pursues its business goals based 
on a model of stakeholder governance. 
Findings of the continuous internal stakeholder 
engagements have enabled the Group to focus 
on material issues such as the conservation 
of natural resources and the environment as 
well as material issues highlighted by other 
stakeholders such as employees, customers, 
suppliers and the community. These steps have 
been encapsulated in a Group-wide strategy 
focused on sustainable development which 
is continuously evolving based on the above 
mentioned stakeholder engagements.
This is the Group’s eighth Integrated Annual 
Report, which presents a comprehensive 
discussion on its financial and non-financial 
performance, in a bid to provide its stakeholders 
with holistic information relating to its value 
creation proposition through the six forms of 
capital reported under the International <IR> 
Framework. The Group has sought independent 
third-party assurance from DNV GL, represented 
in Sri Lanka by DNV Business Assurance Lanka 
(Pvt) Ltd, in relation to the non-financial 
information contained in this report. 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
The Group has an active approach to research 
and development and recognises the 
contribution that it can make to intellectual 
property and the Group’s operations. 
Significant expenditure has taken place over 
the years and substantial efforts will continue 
to be made to introduce intellectual property 
rights, develop new products and processes 
and improve the operational efficiency of 
existing products and processes.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
The Group complies with the relevant 
environmental laws, regulations and 
endeavours to comply with best practices 
applicable in the country of operation. 
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR)
John Keells Foundation, which is funded 
by JKH and its subsidiaries, handles most of 
the Group’s CSR initiatives and activities. The 
Foundation manages a range of programmes 
that underpin its key principle of acting 
responsibly towards its stakeholders and to 
bring about sustainable development in the 
focus areas. The CSR initiatives, including 
completed and on-going projects, are detailed 
in the Group Consolidated Review section in 
the Annual Report.
In quantifying the Group’s contribution to CSR 
initiatives and activities, no account has been 
taken of in-house costs or management time.

209
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
DONATIONS
Total donations made by the Company and the 
Group during the year amounted to Rs.101 Mn 
(2022 - Rs.3 Mn) and Rs.107 Mn (2022 - Rs.8.5 
Mn), respectively, in relation to the Group’s 
decision to support the only ambulance 
service in the country. These amounts do not 
include contributions on account of corporate 
social responsibility (CSR) initiatives.
STATUTORY PAYMENTS
The Directors confirm that to the best of 
their knowledge, all taxes, duties and levies 
payable by the Company and its subsidiaries, 
all contributions, levies and taxes payable on 
behalf of, and in respect of, the employees 
of the Company and its subsidiaries, and all 
other known statutory dues as were due and 
payable by the Company and its subsidiaries as 
at the statement of financial position date have 
been paid or, where relevant, provided for, 
except as specified in Note 45 to the Financial 
Statements covering contingent liabilities.
COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND 
REGULATIONS 
To the best of knowledge and belief of the 
Directors, the Company and the Group have 
not engaged in any activity, which contravenes 
laws and regulations of the country.
ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT AND 
INTERNAL CONTROLS
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing 
process of identifying, evaluating and 
managing any significant risk faced by the 
Group, where annual risk reviews are carried 
out by the Enterprise Risk Management 
Division and the risks are further reviewed each 
quarter by each business unit. The headline 
risks of each listed Company are presented 
by the Business Unit to its respective Audit 
Committee for review and in the case of 
John Keells Holdings PLC, by the Enterprise 
Risk Management Division to the John Keells 
Holdings PLC Audit Committee.
The Corporate Governance section to this 
Report elaborates on these practices and the 
Group’s risk factors.
INTERNAL CONTROLS AND ASSURANCE 
The Board, through the involvement of the 
Group Business Process Review Division, takes 
steps to gain assurance on the effectiveness 
over the financial, operational and risk 
management control systems in place.  
The Audit Committee receives regular reports 
on the adequacy and effectiveness of internal 
controls in the Group, compliance with laws 
and regulations and established policies and 
procedures of the Group. The head of the 
Group Business Process Review Division has 
direct access to the Chairperson of the Audit 
Committee. Reports of the outsourced internal 
auditors are also reviewed by the Committee.
EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD 
There have been no events subsequent to 
the reporting period, which would have any 
material effect on the Company or on the 
Group other than those disclosed in Note 48 to 
the Financial Statements.
GOING CONCERN
It is the view of the management that there 
are no material uncertainties that may cast 
significant doubt on the Group’s ability to 
continue to operate as a going concern. The 
management has formed judgment that 
the Company, its subsidiaries, associates and 
joint ventures have adequate resources to 
continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future driven by the continuous 
operationalisation of risk mitigation initiatives 
and monitoring of business continuity and 
response plans at each business unit level 
along with the financial strength of the Group.
APPOINTMENT AND REMUNERATION OF 
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
Messrs. Ernst & Young, Chartered Accountants, 
are willing to continue as Auditors of the 
Company, and a resolution proposing their 
reappointment will be tabled at the Annual 
General Meeting.
The Independent Auditors’ Report is found in 
the Financial Statements section of the Annual 
Report.
The Audit Committee reviews the 
appointment of the Auditor, its effectiveness, 
its independence and its relationship with the 
Group, including the level of audit and non-
audit fees paid to the Auditor.
The Group works with 3 firms of Chartered 
Accountants across the Group, namely, Ernst 
& Young, KPMG and PricewaterhouseCoopers. 
Details of audit fees are set out in Note 18 
to the Financial Statements. The Auditors do 
not have any relationship (other than that of 
an Auditor) with the Company or any of its 
subsidiaries.
Further details on the work of the Auditor and 
the Audit Committee are set out in the Audit 
Committee Report.
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 
The Board of Directors approved the 
consolidated financial statements on 23 May 
2023. The requisite number of copies of this 
report will be submitted to the Colombo Stock 
Exchange and to the Sri Lanka Accounting and 
Auditing Standards Monitoring Board.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The Notice of Meeting of the Annual General 
Meeting appears in the Supplementary 
Information section of the Annual Report. 
This Annual Report is signed for and on behalf 
of the Board of Directors.
By Order of the Board
Director
Director
Keells Consultants (Pvt) Ltd
Secretaries
23 May 2023

210 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
THE STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ 
RESPONSIBILITY
The responsibility of the Directors in relation 
to the financial statements is set out in the 
following statement. The responsibility of the 
auditors, in relation to the financial statements 
prepared in accordance with the provision of 
the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007, is set out in 
the Report of the Auditors. 
The financial statements comprise of: 
•	 income statement and statement of 
comprehensive income of the Company 
and its subsidiaries, which present a true 
and fair view of the financial performance 
of the Company and its subsidiaries for the 
financial year; and
•	 a statement of financial position, which 
presents a true and fair view of the state of 
affairs of the Company and its subsidiaries 
as at the end of the financial year: and 
The Directors are required to confirm that the 
financial statements:
have been prepared: 
•	 using appropriate accounting policies 
which have been selected and applied in a 
consistent manner, and material departures, 
if any, have been disclosed and explained; 
and
are
•	 presented in accordance with the Sri Lanka 
Accounting Standards (SLFRS/LKAS); and 
that reasonable and prudent judgments 
and estimates have been made so that 
the form and substance of transactions are 
properly reflected; and
•	 provide the information required by and 
otherwise comply with the Companies Act 
and the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock 
Exchange. 
The Directors are also required to ensure 
that the Company has adequate resources 
to continue in operation to justify applying 
the going concern basis in preparing these 
financial statements. 
Further, the Directors have a responsibility 
to ensure that the Company maintains 
sufficient accounting records to disclose, with 
reasonable accuracy, the financial position of 
the Company and of the Group.
The Directors are also responsible for taking 
reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of 
the Company and of the Group and in this 
regard to give proper consideration to the 
establishment of appropriate internal control 
systems with a view to preventing and 
detecting fraud and other irregularities. 
The Directors are required to prepare the 
financial statements and to provide the 
auditors with every opportunity to take 
whatever steps and undertake whatever 
inspections that may be considered being 
appropriate to enable them to give their audit 
opinion.
As required by Section 56 (2) of the Companies 
Act No. 7 of 2007, the Board of Directors have 
confirmed that the Company, based on the 
information available, satisfies the solvency 
test immediately after the distribution, in 
accordance with Section 57 of the Companies 
Act No. 7 of 2007, and have obtained a 
certificate from the auditors, prior to declaring 
all dividend. A final dividend will be paid on or 
before 21 June 2023 to those shareholders on 
the register as of 31 May 2023.
The Directors are of the view that they have 
discharged their responsibilities as set out in 
this statement. 
COMPLIANCE REPORT
The Directors confirm that to the best of 
their knowledge, all taxes, duties and levies 
payable by the Company and its subsidiaries, 
all contributions, levies and taxes payable on 
behalf of and in respect of the employees 
of the Company and its subsidiaries, and 
all other known statutory dues as were 
due and payable by the Company and its 
subsidiaries as at the reporting date have 
been paid, or where relevant provided for, 
except as specified in Note 45 to the Financial 
Statements covering contingent liabilities.
By order of the Board
Keells Consultants (Pvt) Ltd
Secretaries
23 May 2023

211
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF JOHN KEELLS 
HOLDINGS PLC
REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
OPINION
We have audited the financial statements of 
John Keells Holdings PLC (“the Company”) and 
the consolidated financial statements of the 
Company and its subsidiaries (“the Group”), which 
comprise the statement of financial position as 
at 31 March 2023, and the income statement 
and the statement of comprehensive income, 
statement of changes in equity and statement of 
cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to 
the financial statements, including a summary of 
significant accounting policies.
In our opinion, the accompanying financial 
statements of the Company and the Group give 
a true and fair view of the financial position of the 
Company and the Group as at 31 March 2023, 
and of their financial performance and cash flows 
for the year then ended in accordance with Sri 
Lanka Accounting Standards.
BASIS FOR OPINION
We conducted our audit in accordance with 
Sri Lanka Auditing Standards (SLAuSs). Our 
responsibilities under those standards are further 
described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for 
the audit of the financial statements section of 
our report. We are independent of the Group in 
accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by CA 
Sri Lanka (Code of Ethics) and we have fulfilled 
our other ethical responsibilities in accordance 
with the Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit 
evidence we have obtained is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
KEY AUDIT MATTERS
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our 
professional judgment, were of most significance 
in our audit of the financial statements of the 
current period. These matters were addressed 
in the context of our audit of the financial 
statements as a whole, and in forming our 
opinion thereon, and we do not provide a 
separate opinion on these matters. For each 
matter below, our description of how our audit 
addressed the matter is provided in that context. 
We have fulfilled the responsibilities described 
in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit 
of the financial statements section of our 
report, including in relation to these matters. 
Accordingly, our audit included the performance 
of procedures designed to respond to our 
assessment of the risks of material misstatement 
of the financial statements. The results of our 
audit procedures, including the procedures 
performed to address the matters below, 
provide the basis for our audit opinion on the 
accompanying financial statements.
Key audit matter	
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Assessment of fair value of land and buildings
Property, Plant and Equipment and investment Property include 
land and buildings carried at fair value. The fair values of land and 
buildings were determined by an external valuer engaged by 
the Group. 
This was a key audit matter due to:
•	 Materiality of the reported fair value of land and buildings 
balances which amounted to Rs.144 Bn and represent 19% of 
the total assets.
•	 The degree of assumptions, judgements and estimation 
uncertainties associated with fair valuation of land and 
buildings such as reliance on comparable market transactions, 
and current market conditions.
Key areas of significant judgments, estimates and assumptions 
used in the valuation of the land and buildings included the 
following:
•	 Estimate of per perch value of the land
•	 Estimate of the per square foot value of the buildings
Our audit procedures were based on the best available information as at date 
of this report and focused on the valuations performed by the external valuer 
engaged by the Group. Our procedures included the following;
•	 Assessed the competency, capability and objectivity of the external valuer 
engaged by the Group.
•	 Read the external valuer’s report and understood the key estimates made and 
the approach taken by the valuer in determining the valuation of each land 
and building.
•	 Assessed the reasonableness of the significant judgements made by the 
valuer and valuation techniques, per perch price and value per square foot 
used by the valuer in the valuation of each land and building.
We assessed the adequacy of the disclosures made in Notes 22 and 24 relating 
to the significant judgements, valuation techniques and estimates used by the 
external valuer.

212 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
Key audit matter	
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Work In Progress of Waterfront Project
Capital work in progress of Waterfront project stated under 
Property, Plant and Equipment amounting to Rs.228 Bn 
represents 31% of total assets of the Group as at 31 March 2023.
This was a key audit matter due to;
•	 The materiality of the reported balance and the possible 
impairment indicators that may exist due to the heightened 
costs to complete the project and the prevailing economic 
conditions in the country.
•	 The degree of assumptions, judgements and estimates 
associated with deriving the estimated future cash flows used 
to ascertain the recoverable amount of the Waterfront project.
Our procedures performed included; 
•	 Understanding the process followed by the management including the basis 
of judgments and assessments to estimate the future estimated costs to 
complete the project.
•	 Performing tests of expenditure and allocation of overheads including an 
examination of management’s assessment as to whether the expenditure met 
the recognition and measurement criteria set forth in the accounting policies 
of the Group.
•	 Reviewing the project status reports and the certificates issued by the project 
manager to identify the status of the project and the estimated and actual 
costs incurred.
•	 Checking the calculation of the discounted future cash flows and cross 
checking the data to relevant underlying accounting records and assessing 
the reasonableness of the significant assumptions such as occupancy levels, 
EBITDA margins and management cost assumptions in cashflow projections 
to determine the future recoverable amount of the project. 
We assessed the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures of its capitalisation policy 
and other related disclosures in Note 22.
Life insurance contract liabilities
Life Insurance Contract Liabilities amounting to Rs. 58Bn, 
represent 15% of total liabilities of the Group as at 31 March 
2023, and are determined based on an actuarial valuation as 
described in Note 36 to the financial statements.
This was a key audit matter due to:
•	 Materiality of the reported Life Insurance Contract Liabilities.
•	 The degree of assumptions, judgements and estimation 
uncertainty associated with the actuarial valuation of Life 
Insurance Contract Liabilities.
•	 Liability adequacy test carried out to ensure the adequacy of 
the carrying value of Life Insurance Contract Liabilities.
Key areas of significant judgments, estimates and assumptions 
used in the valuation of the Life Insurance Contract Liabilities 
included the following:
•	 The determination of assumptions such as mortality, 
morbidity, lapses and surrenders, loss ratios, bonus, interest 
rates, discount rates and related claim handling expenses.
To assess the reasonableness of the Life Insurance Contract Liabilities, our audit 
procedures included amongst others the following and were based on the best 
information available up to date of this report:
•	 Involved the component auditor of the subsidiary company to perform the 
audit procedures to assess the reasonableness of the assumptions and test the 
controls over the process of estimating the insurance contract liabilities. 
•	 Involved the internal expert of component auditor of the subsidiary company 
to assess the reasonableness of the assumptions used in the valuations of the 
insurance contract liabilities.
We assessed the adequacy of the disclosures and the movement in the 
insurance contract liabilities in Note 36.
Compliance with interest bearing loan covenants
As of the reporting date, the Group reported total interest-
bearing borrowings of Rs. 173Bn, of which Rs. 13Bn is reported 
as current liabilities and the balance Rs. 160Bn as non-current 
liabilities.
Interest bearing borrowings was a key audit matter due to the 
existence of numerous financial and non-financial covenants, the 
breach of which could impact the classification of the loans in 
the financial statements.
Our audit procedures included amongst others the following: 
•	 Assessed the design and operating effectiveness of controls implemented for 
recording of the borrowings, monitoring, evaluating and timely reporting on 
covenant compliances in relation to interest bearing borrowings
•	 Obtained an understanding of the covenants attached to borrowings, by 
perusing the loan agreements. 
•	 Obtained direct confirmations from financial institutes.
We assessed the adequacy and appropriateness of the disclosures made in Note 
37 relating to interest bearing borrowings.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
OTHER INFORMATION INCLUDED IN THE 
GROUP’S 2022/23 ANNUAL REPORT
Other information consists of the information 
included in the Annual Report, other than the 
financial statements and our auditor’s report 
thereon. Management is responsible for the other 
information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does 
not cover the other information and we do 
not express any form of assurance conclusion 
thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial 
statements, our responsibility is to read the other 
information and, in doing so, consider whether 
the other information is materially inconsistent 
with the financial statements or our knowledge 
obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to 
be materially misstated. If, based on the work 
we have performed, we conclude that there is a 
material misstatement of this other information, 
we are required to report that fact. We have 
nothing to report in this regard.

213
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
RESPONSIBILITIES OF MANAGEMENT AND 
THOSE CHARGED WITH GOVERNANCE
Management is responsible for the preparation 
of financial statements that give a true and fair 
view in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting 
Standards, and for such internal control as 
management determines is necessary to enable 
the preparation of financial statements that are 
free from material misstatement, whether due to 
fraud or error. 
In preparing the financial statements, 
management is responsible for assessing the 
Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, 
disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going 
concern and using the going concern basis of 
accounting unless management either intends to 
liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has 
no realistic alternative but to do so. 
Those charged with governance are responsible 
for overseeing the Company’s and the Group’s 
financial reporting process.
AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE 
AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether the financial statements as a 
whole are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error, and to issue 
an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. 
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, 
but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted 
in accordance with SLAuSs will always detect a 
material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and 
are considered material if, individually or in the 
aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to 
influence the economic decisions of users taken 
on the basis of these financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SLAuSs, 
we exercise professional judgment and maintain 
professional scepticism throughout the audit. 
We also: 
•	 Identify and assess the risks of material 
misstatement of the financial statements, 
whether due to fraud or error, design and 
perform audit procedures responsive to 
those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a 
material misstatement resulting from fraud 
is higher than for one resulting from error, 
as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, 
intentional omissions, misrepresentations, 
or the override of internal control.
•	 Obtain an understanding of internal 
controls relevant to the audit in order 
to design audit procedures that are 
appropriate in the circumstances, but not 
for the purpose of expressing an opinion on 
the effectiveness of the internal controls of 
the Company and the Group.
•	 Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting 
policies used and the reasonableness 
of accounting estimates and related 
disclosures made by management.
•	 Conclude on the appropriateness of 
management’s use of the going concern 
basis of accounting and, based on the 
audit evidence obtained, whether a 
material uncertainty exists related to events 
or conditions that may cast significant 
doubt on the Group’s ability to continue 
as a going concern. If we conclude that 
a material uncertainty exists, we are 
required to draw attention in our auditor’s 
report to the related disclosures in the 
financial statements or, if such disclosures 
are inadequate, to modify our opinion. 
Our conclusions are based on the audit 
evidence obtained up to the date of our 
auditor’s report. However, future events or 
conditions may cause the Group to cease to 
continue as a going concern.
•	 Evaluate the overall presentation, structure 
and content of the financial statements, 
including the disclosures, and whether 
the financial statements represent the 
underlying transactions and events in a 
manner that achieves fair presentation.
•	 Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence 
regarding the financial information of 
the entities or business activities within 
the Group to express an opinion on the 
consolidated financial statements. We are 
responsible for the direction, supervision 
and performance of the Group audit. We 
remain solely responsible for our audit 
opinion. 
We communicate with those charged with 
governance regarding, among other matters, 
the planned scope and timing of the audit 
and significant audit findings, including any 
significant deficiencies in internal control that we 
identify during our audit. 
We also provide those charged with governance 
with a statement that we have complied with 
ethical requirements in accordance with the 
Code of Ethics regarding independence, and to 
communicate with them all relationships and 
other matters that may reasonably be thought to 
bear on our independence, and where applicable, 
related safeguards. 
From the matters communicated with those 
charged with governance, we determine those 
matters that were of most significance in the 
audit of the financial statements of the current 
period and are therefore the key audit matters. 
We describe these matters in our auditor’s 
report unless law or regulation precludes public 
disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely 
rare circumstances, we determine that a matter 
should not be communicated in our report 
because the adverse consequences of doing so 
would reasonably be expected to outweigh the 
public interest benefits of such communication.
REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND 
REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS
As required by section 163 (2) of the Companies 
Act No. 07 of 2007, we have obtained all the 
information and explanations that were required 
for the audit and, as far as appears from our 
examination, proper accounting records have 
been kept by the Group. 
CA Sri Lanka membership number of the 
engagement partner responsible for signing this 
independent auditor’s report is 2097.
23 May 2023
Colombo

214 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
INCOME STATEMENT
 
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
Note
2023
2022
2023
2022
In Rs.'000s
Continuing operations 
Revenue from contracts with customers 
 260,687,372 
 202,849,175 
 2,543,712 
 1,875,722 
Revenue from insurance contracts 
 15,952,535 
 15,225,571 
 - 
 - 
Total revenue 
14
 276,639,907 
 218,074,746 
 2,543,712 
 1,875,722 
Cost of sales
 (227,190,277)
 (180,430,008)
 (1,166,753)
 (1,085,049)
Gross profit
 49,449,630 
 37,644,738 
 1,376,959 
 790,673 
Dividend income
15
 - 
 - 
 10,635,000 
 8,007,649 
Other operating income
16.1
 3,260,621 
 2,614,793 
 41,219 
 51,344 
Selling and distribution expenses
 (8,266,060)
 (5,732,694)
 - 
 - 
Administrative expenses
 (21,927,758)
 (14,762,643)
 (2,087,177)
 (1,283,215)
Other operating expenses
16.2
 (9,825,773)
(12,456,008)
 (748,154)
 (514,478)
Results from operating activities
 12,690,660 
7,308,186 
 9,217,847 
 7,051,973 
Finance cost
17
 (17,802,868)
 (7,034,757)
 (8,778,825)
 (2,966,139)
Finance income
17
 26,899,776 
 30,806,179 
 16,327,902 
 24,198,282 
Change in insurance contract liabilities
36.2
 (7,650,232)
 (6,416,299)
 - 
 - 
Change in fair value of investment property
24
 878,538 
 (4,084,755)
 - 
 - 
Share of results of equity accounted investees (net of tax)
27.3 
 7,573,543 
6,745,939 
 - 
 - 
Profit before tax 
18
 22,589,417 
 27,324,493 
 16,766,924 
 28,284,116 
Tax expense
21.1
 (3,693,293)
 (6,881,586)
 (2,057,640)
 (3,902,709)
Profit for the year 
 18,896,124 
 20,442,907 
 14,709,284 
 24,381,407 
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent
 18,173,868 
 20,212,968 
Non-controlling interests
 722,256 
 229,939 
 18,896,124 
 20,442,907 
 Rs.
 Rs.
Earnings per share
 
Basic
19.1
 13.12 
15.13
Diluted
19.2
 13.12 
15.12
Dividend per share
20
 2.00 
1.50
Figures in brackets indicate deductions.
The accounting policies and notes as set out in pages 220 to 302 form an integral part of these financial statements.

215
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
 
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
Note
2023
2022
2023
2022
In Rs.'000s
Profit for the year
 18,896,124
 20,442,907
 14,709,284
 24,381,407
Other comprehensive income
Other comprehensive income to be reclassified to Income 
Statement in subsequent periods
Currency translation of foreign operations
 4,936,383 
 50,010,858 
 - 
 - 
Net gain/(loss) on cash flow hedges
 1,287,023 
 2,612,965 
 1,287,023 
 2,199,499 
Net gain/(loss) on financial instruments at fair value through other 
comprehensive income
 (1,423,636)
 (1,629,621)
 - 
 - 
Share of other comprehensive income of equity accounted 
investees (net of tax)
 1,688,853 
 3,965,050 
 - 
 - 
Net other comprehensive income to be reclassified to Income 
Statement in subsequent periods
 6,488,623 
 54,959,252 
 1,287,023 
 2,199,499 
Other comprehensive income not to be reclassified to Income 
Statement in subsequent periods
Net gain / (loss) on equity instruments at fair value through other 
comprehensive income
 (2,312)
 (16,145)
 (22,511)
 (6,923)
Revaluation of land and buildings
22.1
 8,002,843 
 4,626,359 
-
 - 
Re-measurement gain / (loss) on defined benefit plans
38.2
 81,295 
 24,720 
 (49,113)
 (3,810)
Share of other comprehensive income of equity accounted 
investees (net of tax)
 (47,870)
 13,541 
-
 - 
Net other comprehensive income not to be reclassified to Income 
Statement in subsequent periods
 8,033,956 
 4,648,475 
 (71,624)
 (10,733)
Tax on other comprehensive income
21.2
 (7,688,637)
 (806,930)
-
-
Other comprehensive income for the period, net of tax
 6,833,942 
 58,800,797 
 1,215,399
 2,188,766 
Total comprehensive income for the period, net of tax 
 25,730,066 
 79,243,704 
 15,924,683
 26,570,173 
Attributable to : 
Equity holders of the parent 
 24,448,793
 76,732,956 
Non-controlling interests 
 1,281,273 
 2,510,748 
 25,730,066 
 79,243,704 
Figures in brackets indicate deductions.
The accounting policies and notes as set out in pages 220 to 302 form an integral part of these financial statements.

216 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
 
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
Note
2023
2022
2023
2022
In Rs.'000s
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment
 22 
362,096,999
 124,347,604 
 140,420 
 83,233 
Right- of - use assets
 23 
 54,184,946 
 53,481,574 
 - 
 - 
Investment properties
 24 
 33,029,385 
 30,607,550 
 - 
 - 
Intangible assets
 25 
 5,792,766 
 5,399,338 
 62,812 
 94,363 
Investments in subsidiaries 
 26 
 - 
 - 
 198,074,611 
 116,966,595 
Investments in equity accounted investees
 27 
 38,486,146 
 33,865,556 
 16,217,500 
 13,261,772 
Non-current financial assets
 28 
 63,957,051 
 48,690,489 
 4,404,983 
 3,083,037 
Deferred tax assets
 21.4 
 2,582,275 
 1,554,438 
 - 
 - 
Other non-current assets
 29 
1,571,304
 180,919,979 
 125,931 
 119,755 
 561,700,872 
 478,866,528 
 219,026,257 
 133,608,755 
Current assets
Inventories
 30 
 39,094,514 
 36,224,887 
 - 
 - 
Trade and other receivables
 31 
 21,508,078 
 27,495,348 
 207,733 
 103,914 
Amounts due from related parties
 44.1 
 317,700 
 196,394 
 1,177,616 
 660,699 
Other current assets
 32 
 14,570,452 
 11,914,461 
 1,695,635 
 816,604 
Short term investments
 33 
 82,221,822 
 110,721,544 
 57,473,253 
 83,972,660 
Cash in hand and at bank
 25,092,977 
 52,376,531 
 8,232,006 
 27,362,010 
 182,805,543 
 238,929,165 
 68,786,243 
 112,915,887 
Total assets
 744,506,415 
 717,795,693 
 287,812,500 
 246,524,642 
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent
Stated capital
 34.1 
 73,187,861 
 73,187,861 
 73,187,861 
 73,187,861 
Revenue reserves
 121,743,376 
 109,087,163 
 101,806,985 
 90,582,276 
Other components of equity
 34.2 
 146,091,034 
129,011,413 
 18,055,005 
 6,010,081 
 341,022,271 
 311,286,437
 193,049,851 
 169,780,218 
Non-controlling interest
 19,396,186 
 18,805,036 
 - 
-
Total equity
 360,418,457 
 330,091,473
 193,049,851
 169,780,218
Non-current liabilities
Insurance contract liabilities
 36 
 58,907,310 
 51,349,323 
 - 
 - 
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
 37 
 159,778,892 
 158,921,898 
 66,907,718 
 64,634,033 
Lease liabilities
 23 
 32,052,489 
 30,066,952 
 - 
 - 
Deferred tax liabilities
 21.4 
 19,687,569 
 12,016,404 
 2,841,984 
 2,841,984 
Employee benefit liabilities
 38 
 2,559,632 
 3,106,617 
 219,756 
 297,969 
Non-current financial liabilities
 39 
 20,107,025 
 2,413,880 
 18,380,148 
 - 
Other non-current liabilities
 40 
 286,236 
 220,203 
 - 
 - 
 293,379,153 
 258,095,277 
 88,349,606 
 67,773,986 
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables
 41 
 29,866,282 
 43,469,407 
 631,405 
 566,252 
Amounts due to related parties
 44.2 
 3,615 
 1,818 
 58,244 
 20,912 
Income tax liabilities
 21.3 
 1,798,855 
 2,618,554 
 888,214 
 880,969 
Short term borrowings
 42 
 8,701,652 
 14,833,056 
 1,300,000 
 2,000,000 
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
 37 
 12,839,426 
 40,624,448 
 3,344,997 
 2,562,994 
Lease liabilities
 23 
 2,258,653 
 3,459,496 
 - 
 - 
Other current liabilities
 43 
 5,191,579 
 4,280,387 
 17,811 
 - 
Bank overdrafts
 30,048,743 
 20,321,777 
 172,372 
 2,939,311 
 90,708,805 
 129,608,943 
 6,413,043 
 8,970,438 
Total equity and liabilities
 744,506,415 
 717,795,693 
 287,812,500 
 246,524,642 
I certify that the financial statements comply with the requirements of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007.
K M Thanthirige
Group Financial Controller
The Board of Directors is responsible for these financial statements.
K N J Balendra	
J G A Cooray
Chairperson	
Deputy Chairperson/Group Finance Director
The accounting policies and Notes as set out in pages 220 to 302 form an integral part of these financial statements.
23 May 2023
Colombo

217
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
 
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
Note
2023
2022
2023
2022
In Rs.'000s
OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Profit before working capital changes
A
 13,519,212
 18,846,184
 (700,449)
 (254,366)
(Increase) / Decrease in inventories
 (1,436,464)
 31,067,158 
-
 - 
(Increase) / Decrease in trade and other receivables
 6,228,264 
 (24,703,584)
 (1,613,836)
 812,586 
(Increase) / Decrease in other current assets
 (2,913,286)
 (3,524,277)
 (1,563,482)
 (645,703)
Increase / (Decrease) in non-current financial liabilities
 (611,355)
 (833,606)
 - 
-
Increase / (Decrease) in trade, other payables and other non-current liabilities
 (10,489,973)
 (16,365,525)
 102,485
 202,013 
Increase / (Decrease) in other current liabilities
 909,897 
 2,844,022 
17,811
 (20,796)
Increase / (Decrease) in insurance contract liabilities
 7,557,987 
 6,188,712 
 - 
-
Cash generated from operations
 12,764,282 
 13,519,084 
 (3,757,471)
 93,734 
Finance income received
 24,591,483 
 21,401,703 
 13,711,513 
 12,728,549 
Finance cost paid
 (21,620,166)
 (4,682,977)
 (6,036,736)
 (2,823,070)
Dividend received
 5,705,389 
 3,587,940 
 10,402,546 
 7,782,432 
Tax paid
 (6,143,062)
 (3,116,944)
 (2,050,396)
 (892,485)
Surcharge tax paid
 (1,749,052)
-
 (665,629)
-
Gratuity paid
 (267,819)
 (269,012)
 (3,886)
 (1,775)
Net cash flows from operating activities
 13,281,055 
 30,439,794 
 11,599,941 
 16,887,385 
INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Purchase and construction of property, plant and equipment
22.1, 22.2
 (7,073,858)
 (6,626,776)
 (102,340)
 (14,160)
Purchase of intangible assets
 (324,121)
 (580,932)
 - 
 (30,165)
Addition to investment property
24
 - 
(386,987)
 - 
 - 
Increase in interest in subsidiaries
 - 
-
 (80,912,944)
 (15,488,558)
(Increase) / decrease in non-current assets
 (31,650,785)
 (26,275,996)
 - 
-
Increase in interest in equity accounted investees
 (2,724,276)
 (2,946,672)
 (2,723,273)
(2,945,921)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment, Intangible assets and investment 
property
 400,669 
1,600,605
 - 
5,670
Proceeds from sale of financial instruments - fair value through profit or loss
 3,769,663 
3,662,251
 - 
-
Purchase of financial instruments - fair value through profit or loss
 (4,133,677)
 (3,059,517)
 - 
 - 
(Purchase) / disposal of deposits and government securities (net)
 (36,905,173)
 77,079,443 
 (19,516,441)
 82,967,106 
(Purchase) / disposal of non-current financial assets (net)
 (247,281)
 (111,553)
 27,894 
 (2,140)
Exercise of contingent consideration
 - 
 (2,991,093)
 - 
 - 
Net cash flows from/(used in) investing activities
 (78,888,839)
 39,362,773  (103,227,104)  64,491,832 
FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Proceeds from issue of convertible debentures
 27,056,250 
-
 27,056,250 
-
Proceeds from issue of shares 
 - 
 10,077,911 
 - 
 10,077,911 
Dividend paid to equity holders of parent
 (2,769,833)
 (2,012,192)
 (2,769,833)
 (2,012,192)
Dividend paid to shareholders with non-controlling interest
 (388,897)
 (409,397)
 - 
 - 
Proceeds from long term borrowings
37.1
 2,077,091 
53,876,802 
-
 3,000,000 
Repayment of long term borrowings
37.1
 (45,034,878)
 (34,946,688)
(1,837,500)
 (1,474,806)
Payment of principal portion of lease liabilities
 (4,308,342)
 (2,822,370)
 - 
 - 
Proceeds from (repayment of) other financial liabilities (net)
 (5,277,692)
 7,929,319 
 (700,000)
 2,000,000 
Net cash flows from / (used in) financing activities
 (28,646,301)
 31,693,385 
 21,748,917 
 11,590,913 
NET INCREASE / (DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
 (94,254,085)  101,495,952
 (69,878,246)
 92,970,130
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT THE BEGINNING
 134,564,103
 33,068,151
 107,885,292
 14,915,162
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT THE END
 40,310,018  134,564,103
 38,007,046  107,885,292
ANALYSIS OF CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Favourable balances
Short term investments (less than 3 months)
33
 45,265,784 
 102,509,349 
 29,947,412 
 83,462,593 
Cash in hand and at bank
 25,092,977 
 52,376,531 
 8,232,006 
 27,362,010 
Unfavourable balances
Bank overdrafts
 (30,048,743)
 (20,321,777)
 (172,372)
 (2,939,311)
Total cash and cash equivalents
 40,310,018  134,564,103 
 38,007,046  107,885,292 
Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of financial position comprise cash at banks and in hand and short-term deposits with a maturity of three 
months or less. For the purpose of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and short-term deposits as defined above, net of 
outstanding bank overdrafts.
Figures in brackets indicate deductions.
The accounting policies and Notes as set out in pages 220 to 302 form an integral part of these financial statements.

218 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
 
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
Note
2023
2022
2023
2022
In Rs.'000s
A 	 Profit before working capital changes
	
Profit before tax
 22,589,417
 27,324,493
 16,766,924
 28,284,116
	
Adjustments for:
Finance income
17  (26,899,776)  (30,806,179)  (16,327,902)  (24,198,282)
Dividend income
15
 - 
 -  (10,635,000)
 (8,007,649)
Finance costs
17
 17,802,868 
 7,034,757 
 8,778,825 
 2,966,139 
Share based payment expense
35
 274,062 
 204,618 
 78,989 
 61,117 
Change in fair value of investment property
24
 (878,538)
 4,084,755 
 - 
 - 
Share of results of equity accounted investees
27.3
 (7,573,543)
 (6,745,939)
 - 
 - 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment
22.1, 22.2
 6,280,610 
 5,014,204 
 45,153 
 38,590 
Provision for impairment 
16.2
 1,106,367 
 4,886,733 
 684,451 
 506,246 
(Profit) / loss on sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
16.1, 16.2
 (14,230)
 (62,198)
 - 
 (2,532)
Amortisation of right- of - use assets
23.1
 4,151,230 
 2,841,789 
 - 
 - 
Amortisation of intangible assets
25.1
 852,249 
 703,906 
 31,551 
 33,324 
Employee benefit provision and related costs
 (195,682)
 584,154 
 (123,440)
 64,565 
Unrealised (gain) / loss on foreign exchange (net)
 (3,975,822)
 3,781,091 
 - 
 - 
 13,519,212  18,846,184 
 (700,449)
 (254,366)
COMPANY
In Rs.'000s
Stated
capital
Other
capital
reserve
 Cash flow 
 hedge 
 reserve
 Fair value reserve
of financial assets
at FVOCI*
Revenue
reserve
Total
equity
 As at 1 April 2021
 63,101,661 
 2,863,766 
 729,316 
 28,094 
 68,216,871 
 134,939,708 
Profit for the year
-
-
-
-
 24,381,407 
 24,381,407 
Other comprehensive income
 - 
 - 
 2,199,499 
 (6,923)
 (3,810)
 2,188,766 
Total comprehensive income
 - 
 - 
 2,199,499 
 (6,923)
 24,377,597 
 26,570,173 
Private placement of ordinary shares
 10,048,991 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 10,048,991 
Exercise of share options
 28,920 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 28,920 
Share based payments
 8,289 
 196,329 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 204,618 
Final dividend paid - 2020/21
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (659,869)
 (659,869)
Interim dividends paid - 2021/22
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (1,352,323)
 (1,352,323)
As at 31 March 2022
 73,187,861 
 3,060,095 
 2,928,815 
 21,171 
 90,582,276 
 169,780,218 
As at 1 April 2022
 73,187,861 
 3,060,095 
 2,928,815 
 21,171 
 90,582,276 
 169,780,218 
Adjustment for Surcharge Tax
-
-
-
-
 (665,629)
 (665,629)
As at 1 April 2022 (Adjusted)
 73,187,861 
 3,060,095 
 2,928,815 
 21,171 
 89,916,647 
 169,114,589 
Profit for the year
-
-
-
-
 14,709,284 
 14,709,284 
Other comprehensive income
 - 
 - 
 1,287,023 
 (22,511)
 (49,113)
 1,215,399 
Total comprehensive income
 - 
 - 
 1,287,023 
 (22,511)
 14,660,171 
 15,924,683 
Share based payments
 - 
 274,062 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 274,062 
Issue of convertible debentures
 - 
 10,506,350 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 10,506,350 
Final dividend paid - 2021/22
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (692,458)
 (692,458)
Interim dividends paid - 2022/23
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (2,077,375)
 (2,077,375)
As at 31 March 2023
 73,187,861 
 13,840,507 
 4,215,838 
 (1,340)
 101,806,985 
 193,049,851 
* Fair value through other comprehensive income. 
Figures in brackets indicate deductions.
The accounting policies and Notes as set out in pages 220 to 302 form an integral part of these financial statements.

219
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
Attributable to equity holders of the parent
GROUP
In Rs.‘000s
Stated
capital 
Restricted 
regulatory
reserve
Revaluation
reserve
Foreign
currency
translation
reserve
 Cash flow 
 hedge 
 reserve 
Other
capital
reserve
 Fair value 
reserve
of financial 
assets
at FVOCI*
 Revenue 
 reserve
Total
Non-
controlling
interests
Total
equity
 As at 1 April 2021
 63,101,661 
 3,626,604  37,777,543  26,424,124 
 349,024 
 2,863,766 
 1,362,079  90,651,930  226,156,731  16,830,098  242,986,829 
 Profit for the year 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
 20,212,968 
 20,212,968 
 229,939 
 20,442,907 
 Other comprehensive income 
-
-
 3,318,359 
 52,761,465 
 2,579,791 
 - 
 (2,164,322)
 24,695 
 56,519,988 
 2,280,809 
 58,800,797 
 Total comprehensive income 
 - 
 - 
 3,318,359 
 52,761,465 
 2,579,791 
 - 
 (2,164,322)
 20,237,663 
 76,732,956 
 2,510,748 
 79,243,704 
 Transfer from revaluation reserves to 
retained earnings 
-
-
 (83,349)
-
-
-
-
 83,349 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Private placement of ordinary shares 
 10,048,991 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
 10,048,991 
 - 
 10,048,991 
 Exercise of share options 
 28,920 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
 28,920 
 - 
 28,920 
 Share based payments 
 8,289 
-
-
-
-
 196,329 
-
-
 204,618 
 - 
 204,618 
 Final dividend paid - 2020/21 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
 (659,869)
 (659,869)
 - 
 (659,869)
 Interim dividends paid - 2021/22 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
 (1,352,323)
 (1,352,323)
 - 
 (1,352,323)
 Subsidiary dividend to non-controlling 
interest 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
 126,413 
 126,413 
 (535,810)
 (409,397)
 As at 31 March 2022 
 73,187,861 
 3,626,604  41,012,553  79,185,589 
 2,928,815 
 3,060,095 
 (802,243) 109,087,163  311,286,437  18,805,036  330,091,473 
 As at 1 April 2022 
 73,187,861 
 3,626,604 
 41,012,553 
 79,185,589 
 2,928,815 
 3,060,095 
 (802,243)  109,087,163  311,286,437 
 18,805,036  330,091,473 
 Adjustments for Surcharge Tax 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
 (2,954,039)
 (2,954,039)
 (70,725)
 (3,024,764)
 As at 1 April 2022 (Adjusted) 
 73,187,861 
 3,626,604  41,012,553  79,185,589 
 2,928,815 
 3,060,095 
 (802,243) 106,133,124  308,332,398  18,734,311  327,066,709 
 Profit for the year 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
 18,173,868 
 18,173,868 
 722,256 
 18,896,124 
 Other comprehensive income 
-
-
 128,669 
 5,408,613 
 1,287,023 
 - 
 (520,849)
 (28,531)
 6,274,925 
 559,017 
 6,833,942 
 Total comprehensive income 
 - 
 - 
 128,669 
 5,408,613 
 1,287,023 
 - 
 (520,849)
 18,145,337 
 24,448,793 
 1,281,273 
 25,730,066 
 Transfer from revaluation reserves to 
retained earnings 
 - 
 - 
 (4,247)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 4,247 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Share based payments 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 274,062 
 - 
 - 
 274,062 
 - 
 274,062 
 Final dividend paid - 2021/22 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (692,458)
 (692,458)
 - 
 (692,458)
 Interim dividends paid - 2022/23 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (2,077,375)
 (2,077,375)
 - 
 (2,077,375)
Issue of convertible debentures
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 10,506,350 
 - 
 - 
 10,506,350 
 - 
 10,506,350 
 Subsidiary dividend to non-controlling 
interest 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 230,501 
 230,501 
 (619,398)
 (388,897)
 As at 31 March 2023 
 73,187,861 
 3,626,604  41,136,975  84,594,202 
 4,215,838  13,840,507 
 (1,323,092) 121,743,376  341,022,271  19,396,186  360,418,457 
* Fair value through other comprehensive income 
 Figures in brackets indicate deductions. 
 The accounting policies and Notes as set out in pages 220 to 302 form an integral part of these financial statements. 

220 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE AND GROUP INFORMATION 
1. 	
CORPORATE INFORMATION 
Reporting entity
John Keells Holdings PLC is a public limited liability Company 
incorporated and domiciled in Sri Lanka. The registered office and 
principal place of business of the Company is located at 117, Sir 
Chittampalam A Gardiner Mawatha, Colombo 2.
Ordinary shares of the Company are listed on the Colombo Stock 
Exchange. Global depository receipts (GDRs) of John Keells Holdings PLC 
are listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange.
John Keells Holdings PLC became the holding Company of the Group 
during the financial year ended 31 March 1986.
Consolidated financial statements
The financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 comprise 
“the Company” referring to John Keells Holdings PLC as the holding 
Company and “the Group” referring to the companies that have been 
consolidated therein. 
Approval of financial statements
The financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 were 
authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 23 May 2023.
Principal activities and nature of operations of the holding 
Company
John Keells Holdings PLC, the Group’s holding Company, manages 
a portfolio of investments consisting of a range of diverse business 
operations, which together constitute the John Keells Group, and 
provides function based services to its subsidiaries, jointly controlled 
entities and associates.
Responsibility for financial statements
The responsibility of the Board of Directors in relation to the financial 
statements is set out in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibility report 
in the Annual report.
Statements of compliance
The financial statements which comprise the income statement, 
statement of comprehensive income, statement of financial position, 
statement of changes in equity and the statement of cash flows, 
together with the accounting policies and notes (the “financial 
statements”) have been prepared in accordance with Sri Lanka 
Accounting Standards (SLFRS/ LKAS) as issued by the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka) and in compliance 
with the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007.
2. 	
GROUP INFORMATION 
Subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures
The companies within the Group and its business activities are described 
in the Group Directory under the Supplementary Information section of 
the Annual Report.
There were no significant changes in the nature of the principal activities 
of the Company and the Group during the financial year under review.
BASIS OF PREPARATION AND OTHER SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING 
POLICIES
3. 	
BASIS OF PREPARATION 
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on an accrual 
basis and under the historical cost convention except for investment 
properties, land and buildings, derivative financial instruments, fair 
value through profit or loss financial assets and financial instruments 
measured at fair value through other comprehensive income that have 
been measured at fair value.
Going Concern
The Group has prepared the financial statements for the year ended 
31 March 2023 on the basis that it will continue to operate as a going 
concern. In determining the basis of preparing the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2023, based on available information, the 
management has assessed the prevailing macroeconomic conditions 
and its effect on the Group companies and the appropriateness of the 
use of the going concern basis.
It is the view of the management that there are no material uncertainties 
that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue to 
operate as a going concern. The management has formed judgment 
that the Company, its subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures have 
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future driven by the continuous operationalisation of 
risk mitigation initiatives and monitoring of business continuity and 
response plans at each business unit level along with the financial 
strength of the Group. 
 
In determining the above, significant management judgement, 
estimates and assumptions, the impact of the macroeconomic 
uncertainties, including exchange rate volatilities, supply chain 
disruptions, foreign exchange market limitations and interest rate 
volatilities have been considered as of the reporting date and specific 
considerations have been disclosed under the notes, as relevant.
Offsetting
Assets and liabilities or income and expenses, are not offset unless 
required or permitted by Sri Lanka Accounting Standards.
Provision for Taxation 
The tax liability arising from the Surcharge Tax Act No: 14 of 2022 has 
been accounted as recommended by the (Addendum to) Statement 
of Alternative Treatment (SoAT) issued by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of Sri Lanka as disclosed under the Note 21 on Income 
Taxes. 
Presentation of functional currency
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sri Lankan 
Rupees (Rs), which is the primary economic environment in which the 
holding Company operates. Each entity in the Group uses the currency 
of the primary economic environment in which they operate as their 
functional currency. 

221
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
The following subsidiaries are using different functional currencies other 
than Sri Lankan Rupees (Rs):
Country of 
incorporation
Functional 
Currency
Name of the Subsidiary 
Singapore
Singapore 
Dollar (SGD)
John Keells Singapore (Pte) Ltd
Republic of 
Maldives
United States 
Dollar (USD)
Fantasea World Investments (Pte) Ltd
John Keells Maldivian Resort (Pte) Ltd
Mack Air Services Maldives (Pte) Ltd
Tranquility (Pte) Ltd
Travel Club (Pte) Ltd
Mauritius
United States 
Dollar (USD)
John Keells BPO Holdings (Pvt) Ltd
John Keells BPO International (Pvt) 
Ltd
Sri Lanka
United States 
Dollar (USD)
Waterfront Properties (Pvt) Ltd
Each material class of similar items is presented cumulatively in the 
Financial Statements. Items of dissimilar nature or function are presented 
separately unless they are immaterial as permitted by the Sri Lanka 
Accounting Standard-LKAS 1 on ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’.
All values are rounded to the nearest rupees thousand (Rs.’000) except 
when otherwise indicated.
The significant accounting policies are discussed with relevant individual 
notes.
The indicative US Dollar financial statements under Supplementary 
Information section of the Annual Report do not form a part of the 
financial statements prepared in accordance with SLFRS/LKAS.	
Comparative information
The presentation and classification of the financial statements of 
the previous years have been amended, where relevant for better 
presentation and to be comparable with those of the current year.
Amendments to the financial statements due to changes in accounting 
standards are discussed in Note 6. 
4. 	
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
Summary of significant accounting policies have been disclosed along 
with the relevant individual notes in the subsequent pages.
Those accounting policies presented with each note, have been applied 
consistently by the Group.
Other significant accounting policies not disclosed with 
individual notes
Following accounting policies, which have been applied consistently by 
the Group, are considered to be significant but not covered in any other 
sections.
Current versus non-current classification 
The Group presents assets and liabilities in statement of financial 
position based on current/non-current classification. An asset as current 
when it is:
• 	 Expected to be realised or intended to be sold or consumed in normal 
operating cycle
• 	 Held primarily for the purpose of trading
• 	 Expected to be realised within twelve months after the reporting 
period, or
• 	 Cash or cash equivalent unless restricted from being exchanged or 
used to settle a liability for at least twelve months after the reporting 
period
All other assets are classified as non-current.
A liability is current when:
• 	 It is expected to be settled in normal operating cycle
• 	 It is held primarily for the purpose of trading 
• 	 It is due to be settled within twelve months after the reporting period
• 	 There is no unconditional right to defer the settlement of the liability 
for at least twelve months after the reporting period
The Group classifies all other liabilities as non-current. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as non-current assets and 
liabilities. 
Foreign currency translation, foreign currency  
transactions and balances
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sri Lanka Rupees 
(Rs), which is the Company’s functional and presentation currency. 
The functional currency is the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the entities of the Group operate. All foreign 
exchange transactions are converted to functional currency, at the 
rates of exchange prevailing at the time the transactions are effected. 
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currency are 
retranslated to functional currency equivalents at the spot exchange rate 
prevailing at the reporting date.	
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in 
a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the 
dates of the initial transactions. Non monetary assets and liabilities are 
translated using exchange rates that existed when the values were 
determined. The gain or loss arising on translation of non-monetary 
items is treated in line with the recognition of gain or loss on changing 
fair value of the item.	
Foreign operations
The statement of financial position and income statement of overseas 
subsidiaries and joint ventures which are deemed to be foreign 
operations are translated to Sri Lanka rupees at the rate of exchange 
prevailing as at the reporting date and at the average annual rate of 
exchange for the period respectively.
The exchange differences arising on the translation are taken directly 
to other comprehensive income. On disposal of a foreign entity, the 
deferred cumulative amount recognised in other comprehensive 
income relating to that particular foreign operation is recognised in the 
income statement.

222 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Group treated goodwill and any fair value adjustments to the 
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities arising on the acquisition as 
assets and liabilities of the parent. Therefore, those assets and liabilities 
are non-monetary items already expressed in the functional currency of 
the parent and no further translation differences occur.
5. 	
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS, ESTIMATES AND 
ASSUMPTIONS 
The preparation of the financial statements of the Group require the 
management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions, which 
may affect the amounts of income, expenditure, assets, liabilities and the 
disclosure of contingent liabilities, at the end of the reporting period.
Uncertainty about these assumptions and estimates could result in 
outcomes that require a material adjustment to the carrying amount of 
assets or liabilities affected in future periods. In the process of applying 
the Group’s accounting policies, management has made various 
judgements. Those which management has assessed to have the 
most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the consolidated 
financial statements have been discussed in the individual notes of the 
related financial statement line items.
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of 
estimation uncertainty at the reporting date, that have a significant 
risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets 
and liabilities within the next financial year, are also described in the 
individual notes to the financial statements. The Group based its 
assumptions and estimates on parameters available when the financial 
statements were prepared. Existing circumstances and assumptions 
about future developments, however, may change due to market 
changes or circumstances arising that are beyond the control of the 
Group. Such changes are reflected in the assumptions when they occur.
The items which have most significant effect on accounting, 
judgements, estimate and assumptions are as follows;
a)	Going concern basis
b)	Valuation of property, plant and equipment and investment property
c)	Impairment of non-financial assets
d)	Share based payments
e)	Taxes
f)	Employee benefit liability
g)	Valuation of insurance contract liabilities
h)	Provision for expected credit losses of trade receivables and contract 
assets
i)	 Leases 
The Group performed impairment testing for non-current assets with 
the indicators of impairment in accordance with the accounting policies 
stated in Note 22 Property, Plant and equipment, Note 23 Right of use 
assets, Note 24 Investment property and Note 25 Intangible assets. 
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the asset’s 
carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable 
amounts of cash generating units are the higher of asset’s fair value less 
costs of disposals and value in use. These calculations require the use of 
estimates, assumptions and judgements. The discount rate used is the 
risk free rate, adjusted by the addition of an appropriate risk premium.
The Group assesses the fair value of its property, plant and equipment 
and investment property based on valuations determined by 
independent qualified valuers’ best estimate based on the market 
conditions that prevailed, which in the valuers’ considered opinion, 
meets the requirements in SLFRS-13 Fair Value Measurement.
6. 	
CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING STANDARDS 
There are no significant changes to the accounting standards for the 
financial year under review.
7.	
 STANDARDS ISSUED BUT NOT YET EFFECTIVE
SLFRS 17 - Insurance Contracts
As recommended by the Accounting Standards Committee, the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka has decided to adopt SLFRS 
17 - Insurance Contracts with effective from annual reporting periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2025.
Early adoption along with the adoption of SLFRS 9 - Financial 
Instruments and SLFRS 15 - Revenue from Contracts with Customers 
is permitted if the regulator permits. SLFRS 17 supersedes SLFRS 4 - 
Insurance Contracts.
SLFRS 4 permitted insurers to continue to use the statutory basis of 
accounting for insurance assets and liabilities that existed in their 
jurisdictions prior to January 2005. SLFRS 17 replaces this with a new 
measurement model for all insurance contracts.
SLFRS 17 requires liabilities for insurance contracts to be recognised 
as the present value of future cash flows, incorporating an explicit risk 
adjustment, which is updated at each reporting date to reflect current 
conditions, and a Contractual Service Margin (CSM) that is equal and 
opposite to any day-one gain arising on initial recognition. Losses 
are recognised directly into the income statement. For measurement 
purposes,contracts are grouped together into contracts of similar risk, 
profitability profile and issue year, with further divisions for contracts that 
are managed separately.
Profit for insurance contracts under SLFRS 17 is represented by the 
recognition of the services provided to policyholders in the period 
(release of the CSM), release from non-economic risk (release of risk 
adjustment)and investment profit.
The CSM is released as profit over the coverage period of the insurance 
contract, reflecting the delivery of services to the policyholder. For 
certain contracts with participating features (where a substantial share 
of the fair value of the related investments and other underlying items is 
paid to policyholders) the CSM reflects the variable fee to shareholders. 
For these contracts, the CSM is adjusted to reflect the changes in 
economic experience and assumptions. For all other contracts the CSM 
is only adjusted for non-economic assumptions.
SLFRS 17 introduces a new measure of insurance revenue, based on 
the delivery of services to policyholders and excluding any premiums 
related to the investment elements of policies, which will be significantly 
different from existing premium revenue measures, currently reported 
in the income statement. In order to transition to SLFRS 17, the amount 
of deferred profit, being the CSM at transition date, needs to be 
determined.

223
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
SLFRS 17 requires, this CSM to be calculated as if the standard had 
applied retrospectively. If this is not practical, an entity is required to 
choose either a simplified retrospective approach or determine the CSM 
by reference to the fair value of the liabilities at the transition date. The 
approach for determining the CSM will have a significant impact on both 
shareholders’ equity and on the amount of profits on in-force business in 
future reporting periods.'
SLFRS 17 Implementation Programme - Union Assurance PLC (UA)
SLFRS 17 is expected to have a significant impact, as the requirements 
of the new standard are complex and requires a fundamental change 
to accounting for insurance contracts as well as the application of 
significant judgement and new estimation techniques. The effect of 
changes required to UA’s accounting policies as a result of implementing 
these standards are currently uncertain, but these changes can be 
expected to, among other things, alter the timing of profit recognition. 
Given the implementation of this standard is likely to involve significant 
enhancements to IT, actuarial and finance systems of UA, it will also have 
an impact on the UA’s expenses.
UA has an implementation programme underway to implement 
SLFRS 17 and SLFRS 9. The scope of the programme consists of setting 
accounting policies and developing application methodologies, 
establishing appropriate processes and controls, sourcing appropriate 
data and implementing actuarial and finance system changes.
UA’s Board established the SLFRS 17 Steering Committee to ensure 
strategic, tactical and operational readiness for the implementation of 
SLFRS 17. UA made steady progress in SLFRS 17 implementation journey 
and awarded Proof of Concept (POC) to a selected vendor. UA has made 
significant progress in the SLFRS 17 implementation journey.
UA is on track to providing SLFRS 17 financial statements in line with the 
requirements when it becomes effective.
The following amendments and improvements are not expected to have 
a significant impact on the Group’s financial statements. 
Amendment to LKAS 1 : Classification of liabilities as  
Current or Non-current. 
Amendment to LKAS 1 : Disclosure of Accounting Policies.
Amendment to LKAS 8 : Definition of Accounting Estimates
Amendment to LKAS 12 : Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities 
arising from a Single Transaction.

224 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
8.1 	
Business segments
 
Transportation
Consumer Foods
Retail
For the year ended 31 March
In Rs.‘000s
2023
2022
2023
2022
2023
2022
Disaggregation of revenue - Timing of revenue recognition
Goods transferred at a point in time 
 71,301,704 
 30,188,848 
 33,776,305 
 22,789,929 
 106,922,269 
 90,873,520 
Services transferred over time
 3,177,956 
 2,361,113 
 - 
 - 
 133,559 
 182,414 
Total segment revenue
 74,479,660 
 32,549,961 
 33,776,305 
 22,789,929 
 107,055,828 
 91,055,934 
Elimination of inter segment revenue
External revenue
Segment results
 4,253,990
 (2,628,478)
 2,060,269
 2,451,687
 4,463,112
 1,551,585
Finance cost
 (719,143)
 (168,402)
 (958,157)
 (180,182)
 (4,096,912)
 (1,872,457)
Finance income
 260,451 
 132,359 
 65,532 
 36,885 
 196,401 
 331,717 
Change in fair value of investment property
 - 
 - 
 24,149 
 16,955 
 (3,085)
 - 
Share of results of equity accounted investees 
 5,774,946 
 3,679,087 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Eliminations / adjustments
 - 
 128 
 (28,112)
 21,540 
 (1,453)
 (4,127)
Profit / (loss) before tax
 9,570,244 
 1,014,694
 1,163,681 
 2,346,885
 558,063 
 6,718
Tax expense
 (560,375)
 (282,038)
 580,918
 (422,136)
 737,612
 (871,971)
Profit/ (loss) for the year
 9,009,869
732,656
 1,744,599
 1,924,749
 1,295,675
 (865,253)
 Purchase and construction of PPE* 
 331,667 
 283,326 
 1,026,914 
 1,147,426 
 3,041,194 
 4,144,698 
 Addition to IA* 
 - 
 2,940 
 539,752 
 251,419 
 642,701 
 782,860 
 Depreciation of PPE* 
 187,335 
 200,571 
 1,025,718 
 940,403 
 1,642,420 
 1,339,574 
 Amortisation of IA* 
 8,434 
 1,866 
 56,062 
 37,914 
 359,672 
 261,579 
 Amortisation of ROU* 
 75,112 
 58,210 
 4,347 
 6,964 
 1,153,054 
 1,020,120 
 Employee benefit provision and related costs 
 10,327 
 24,365 
 2,020 
 113,509 
39,573
 95,776 
In addition to segment results, information such as finance costs / income, tax expenses has been allocated to segments for better presentation.
* PPE - Property, plant and equipment, IA - Intangible assets, ROU - Right-of-use assets
GROUP BUSINESS, OPERATIONS AND MANAGEMENT 
8.	
OPERATING SEGMENT INFORMATION 
Accounting policy 
The Group’s internal organisation and management is structured 
based on individual products and services which are similar in nature 
and process and where the risks and returns are similar. The operating 
segments represent this business structure. 
In addition, segments are determined based on the Group’s 
geographical spread of operations as well. The geographical analysis 
of turnover and profits are based on location of customers and assets 
respectively. 
The activities of each of the operating business segments of the Group 
are detailed in the Group directory in the Supplementary section of the 
Annual report.
The Group has now organised its business units into seven reportable 
operating segments based on their products and services as follows:
Transportation
This operating segment provides an array of transportation related 
services, which comprise of a container terminal in the Port of Colombo, 
a marine bunkering business, domestic airline, joint venture/associations 
with leading shipping, logistics and air transportation multinationals as 
well as travel and airlines services in Sri Lanka and the Maldives.
Consumer Foods
Consumer foods segment focuses on manufacturing of a wide 
range of soft drinks, dairy products, ice creams and processed foods 
which competes in three major categories namely beverages, frozen 
confectionery and convenience foods.
Retail
Retail segment focuses on modern organised retailing through a chain 
of supermarkets, multi-use international logistics centre, distribution of 
printers, copiers, smartphones and other office automation equipment.

225
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
Leisure
Property
Financial Services
Others
Group Total
2023
2022
2023
2022
2023
2022
2023
2022
2023
2022
 - 
 - 
 552,474 
 35,220,257 
 - 
 - 
 3,743,937 
 2,018,797 
 216,296,689 
 181,091,351 
 39,731,355 
 18,914,184 
 1,875,744 
 763,173 
 16,202,957 
 15,685,926 
 6,699,917 
 4,125,135 
 67,821,488 
 42,031,945 
 39,731,355 
 18,914,184 
 2,428,218 
 35,983,430 
 16,202,957 
 15,685,926 
 10,443,854 
 6,143,932 
 284,118,177 
 223,123,296 
 (7,478,270)
 (5,048,550)
 276,639,907 
 218,074,746 
 2,398,333
 65,158
 (1,627,298)
 2,683,512
 3,626,660
 2,867,497
 (825,919)
 (791,245)
 14,349,147
 6,199,716 
 (3,084,504)
 (1,354,402)
 (122,006)
 (138,747)
 (12)
 (323,352)
 (8,822,134)
 (2,997,215)
 (17,802,868)
 (7,034,757)
 292,374 
 109,286 
 299,854 
 107,339 
 178,486 
 173,059 
 16,682,719 
 24,310,553 
 17,975,817 
 25,201,198 
 201,400 
 104,950 
 525,342 
 (4,287,974)
 - 
 - 
 130,732 
 81,314 
 878,538 
 (4,084,755)
 (19,653)
 (35,391)
 (1,127,788)
 824,630 
 2,946,038 
 2,277,613 
 - 
 - 
 7,573,543 
6,745,939 
 (217,825)
 (170,750)
 (83,057)
 (35,829)
 - 
 - 
 (54,313)
 486,190 
 (384,760)
 297,152 
 (429,875)
 (1,281,149)
 (2,134,953)
 (847,069)
 6,751,172 
 4,994,817
 7,111,085 
 21,089,597
 22,589,417 
 27,324,493
 76,220
 (21,031)
 (215,164)
 (139,140)
 (1,077,835)
 (680,777)
 (3,234,669)
 (4,464,493)
 (3,693,293)
 (6,881,586)
 (353,655)
 (1,302,180)
 (2,350,117)
 (986,209)
 5,673,337
 4,314,040
 3,876,416
 16,625,104
 18,896,124
 20,442,907
 1,996,884 
 639,952 
 112,907 
 114,410 
 117,516 
 183,620 
 446,776 
 113,344 
 7,073,858 
 6,626,776 
 5,050 
 11,415 
 - 
 - 
 74,818 
 244,721 
 33,469 
66,822
 1,295,790 
1,360,177
 3,080,095 
 2,230,149 
 62,701 
 57,419 
 118,669 
 99,540 
 163,672 
 146,548 
 6,280,610 
 5,014,204 
 75,607 
 71,774 
 6,601 
 6,601 
 294,149 
 274,115 
 51,724 
 50,057 
 852,249 
 703,906 
 2,771,224 
 1,633,812 
 20,477 
 21,427 
 125,838 
 100,078 
 1,178 
 1,178 
 4,151,230 
 2,841,789 
 (42,308)
 140,792 
(27,520)
 14,221 
 (62,150)
 63,377 
 (115,624)
 132,114 
 (195,682)
 584,154 
Leisure
The leisure segment comprises of five-star city hotels, a lean luxury hotel, 
resort hotels spread across prime tourist locations in Sri Lanka as well as 
Maldives, and a destination management business in Sri Lanka.
Property
Property segment concentrates primarily on property development, 
renting of commercial office spaces and management of the Group’s real 
estate.
Financial Services
The segment engages in a broad range of financial services including 
insurance, commercial banking, debt trading, fund management, leasing 
and stock broking. 
Others
This reportable segment represents companies in the plantation 
industry, Information technology, management and holding Company 
of the Group as well as several ancillary companies.
Segment information has been prepared in conformity with the 
accounting policies adopted for preparing and presenting the 
consolidated financial statements of the Group.
No operating segments have been aggregated to form the above 
reportable operating segments. An individual segment manager is 
determined for each operating segment and the results are regularly 
reviewed by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors monitors 
the operating results of its business units separately for the purpose 
of making decisions about resource allocation and performance 
assessment. Segment performance is evaluated based on operating 
profit or loss which in certain respects, as explained in the operating 
segments’ information, is measured differently from operating profit 
or loss in the consolidated financial statements. However, except the 
Financial Services segment, other segments’ financing activities are 
managed on a group basis and are not allocated to operating segments. 
Pricing between operating segments comply with the arm’s length 
principals relating to transfer pricing in the ordinary course of business.

226 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
8.	
OPERATING SEGMENT INFORMATION (CONTD.)
8.2.	
Business segments
The following table presents segment assets and liabilities of the Group’s business segments. 
 
Transportation
Consumer Foods
Retail
As at
In Rs.‘000s
31.03.2023 
31.03.2022
31.03.2023 
31.03.2022
31.03.2023 
31.03.2022
 Property, plant and equipment 
 1,065,820 
 967,241 
 10,822,124 
 10,112,354 
 18,294,522 
 17,153,312 
 Right-of-use-assets 
 549,380 
 103,319 
 267,301 
 274,048 
 9,539,807 
 9,838,314 
 Investment property 
 - 
 - 
 341,398 
 317,250 
 304,474 
 - 
 Intangible assets 
 65,000 
 73,593 
 1,182,500 
 683,547 
 2,557,066 
 2,274,943 
 Non-current financial assets 
 125,974 
 126,064 
 273,966 
 210,412 
 218,490 
 161,887 
 Other non-current assets 
 51,972 
 11,193 
 128,962 
 34,550 
 993,260 
 972,291 
 Segment non-current assets 
 1,858,146 
 1,281,410 
 13,016,251 
 11,632,161 
 31,907,619 
 30,400,747 
 Investments in equity accounted investees 
 17,769,439
 15,050,879
-
-
-
-
 Deferred tax assets 
 Goodwill 
 Eliminations / adjustments 
 Total non-current assets 
 Inventories 
 462,430 
 4,597,542 
 5,541,602 
 3,729,059 
 11,173,246 
 8,020,175 
 Trade and other receivables 
 2,799,055 
 5,699,913 
 4,660,106 
 3,940,217 
 2,639,958 
 2,877,516 
 Short term investments 
 6,665,675 
 5,619,503 
-
 758 
 243,742 
 3,181,909 
 Cash in hand and at bank 
 3,012,674 
 4,931,536 
 547,979 
 615,102 
 1,335,771 
 5,273,668 
 Segment current assets 
 12,939,834 
 20,848,494 
 10,749,687 
 8,285,136 
 15,392,717 
 19,353,268 
 Other current assets 
 Eliminations / adjustments 
 Total current assets 
 Total assets 
 Insurance contract liabilities 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 
 199,760 
 7,333 
 227,802 
 358,647 
 6,622,609 
 7,991,304 
 Lease liabilities 
 573,466 
 109,010 
 160,906 
 152,328 
 9,840,263 
 9,786,865 
 Employee benefit liabilities 
 118,217 
 105,801 
 523,330 
 707,380 
 410,492 
 418,092 
 Non-current financial liabilities 
 - 
-
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Other non-current liabilities 
 - 
-
 104,036 
 96,183 
 - 
 - 
 Segment non-current liabilities 
 891,443 
 222,144 
 1,016,074 
 1,314,538 
 16,873,364 
 18,196,261 
 Deferred tax liabilities 
 Eliminations / adjustments 
 Total non-current liabilities 
 Trade and other payables 
 2,970,264 
 5,700,540 
 3,716,255 
 4,321,046 
 13,838,670 
 21,981,118 
 Short term borrowings 
 5,943,802 
 10,838,491 
 262,177 
 - 
 1,205,078 
 2,000,000 
 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 
 2,000 
 10,000 
 391,775 
 634,042 
 2,068,696 
 1,588,696 
 Lease liabilities
 - 
-
 1,829 
 1,396 
 652,273 
 476,996 
 Bank overdrafts 
 2,545,939 
 1,905,340 
 5,653,860 
 2,121,675 
 10,625,490 
 3,773,544 
 Segment current liabilities 
 11,462,005 
 18,454,371 
 10,025,896 
 7,078,159 
 28,390,207 
 29,820,354 
 Income tax liabilities 
 Other current liabilities 
 Eliminations / adjustments 
 Total current liabilities 
 Total liabilities 
 Total segment assets 
 14,797,980 
 22,129,904 
 23,765,938 
 19,917,297 
 47,300,336 
 49,754,015 
 Total segment liabilities 
 12,353,448 
 18,676,515 
 11,041,970 
 8,392,697 
 45,263,571 
 48,016,615 
Inter company investments made by the Group of companies have not been considered for the calculation of segment assets.

227
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
Leisure
Property
Financial Services
Others
Group Total
31.03.2023 
31.03.2022
31.03.2023 
31.03.2022
31.03.2023 
31.03.2022
31.03.2023 
31.03.2022
31.03.2023 
31.03.2022
297,722,918
 63,491,916 
 5,126,480 
 4,991,754 
 2,737,024 
 2,738,220 
 1,935,074 
 1,313,218 
337,703,962
 100,768,015 
 42,150,699 
 41,403,024 
 210,292 
 216,807 
 425,118 
 454,179 
 33,622 
 34,800 
 53,176,219 
 52,324,491 
 5,117,334 
 4,701,632 
 49,925,083 
 47,032,217 
 - 
-
 2,596,897 
 2,421,012 
 58,285,186 
 54,472,111 
 129,931 
 200,488 
 500 
 667 
 1,251,283 
 1,480,614 
 180,255 
 204,944 
 5,366,535 
 4,918,796 
 10,869,131 
 10,435,965 
 27,692 
 82,148 
 58,388,861 
 44,176,904 
 4,775,231 
 3,424,868 
 74,679,345 
 58,618,248 
77,072
 20,304 
 - 
 180,224,953 
 86,193 
 70,053 
 233,844 
 141,949 
1,571,303
 181,475,293 
 356,067,085 
 120,253,329 
 55,290,047 
 232,548,546 
 62,888,479 
 48,919,970 
 9,754,923 
 7,540,791 
 530,782,550 
 452,576,954 
 1,372,911
 1,391,744
 1,679,553
 2,807,341
 17,664,243
 14,615,592
-
-
 38,486,146 
 33,865,556 
 2,582,275 
 1,554,438 
 730,901 
 730,901 
 (10,881,000)
 (9,861,321)
 561,700,872 
 478,866,528 
 1,017,150 
 624,324 
 20,491,493 
 19,052,049 
 - 
 9,441 
 497,343 
 244,438 
 39,183,264 
 36,277,028 
 7,153,088 
 4,572,062 
 2,796,959 
 7,796,348 
 1,537,315 
 2,184,085 
 3,312,418 
 2,645,024 
 24,898,899 
 29,715,165 
 3,649,725 
 3,521,626 
 4,361,202 
 116,870 
 12,098,950 
 17,037,398 
 58,036,307 
 84,710,109 
 85,055,601 
 114,188,173 
 2,923,886 
 2,561,453 
 4,243,625 
 7,137,753 
 1,060,260 
 1,084,499 
 11,769,967 
 30,735,857 
 24,894,162 
 52,339,868 
 14,743,849 
 11,279,465 
 31,893,279 
 34,103,020 
 14,696,525 
 20,315,423 
 73,616,035 
 118,335,428 
 174,031,926 
 232,520,234 
 14,570,452 
 11,914,461 
 (5,796,835)
 (5,505,530)
182,805,543
 238,929,165 
744,506,415
 717,795,693 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 58,907,310 
 51,349,323 
 - 
 - 
 58,907,310 
 51,349,323 
 96,201,931 
 26,799,374 
 304,742 
 69,018,341 
 - 
 - 
 66,919,718 
 64,650,033 
 170,476,562 
 168,825,032 
 21,125,638 
 19,659,970 
 410 
 462 
 306,148 
 312,659 
-
 - 
 32,006,831 
 30,021,294 
 823,169 
 927,287 
 8,699 
 38,187 
 184,892 
 279,515 
 490,833 
 630,355 
 2,559,632 
 3,106,617 
 - 
 - 
 1,726,877 
2,413,880
 - 
 - 
 18,380,148 
 - 
 20,107,025 
2,413,880
 182,444 
 124,244 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 427 
 447 
 286,907 
 220,874 
 118,333,182 
 47,510,875 
 2,040,728 
71,470,870
 59,398,350 
 51,941,497 
 85,791,126 
 65,280,835 
 284,344,267 
255,937,020
19,687,569
 12,016,404 
 (10,652,683)
(9,858,147)
293,379,153
 258,095,277 
 5,056,161 
 4,061,764 
 888,337 
 2,820,379 
 4,155,248 
 4,616,409 
 2,491,243 
 2,227,717 
 33,116,178 
 45,728,973 
 2,833,700 
 3,466,629 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,312,074 
 2,016,044 
 11,556,831 
 18,321,164 
 6,843,958 
 4,361,702 
 188,000 
 31,467,019 
 - 
 - 
 3,344,997 
 2,562,994 
 12,839,426 
 40,624,453 
 1,682,243 
 2,947,896 
 - 
 - 
 112,308 
 131,917 
 - 
 - 
 2,448,653 
 3,558,205 
 10,079,148 
 7,364,353 
 647,726 
 1,758,998 
 140,551 
 160,879 
 428,023 
 3,308,983 
 30,120,737 
 20,393,772 
 26,495,210 
 22,202,344 
 1,724,063 
 36,046,396 
 4,408,107 
 4,909,205 
 7,576,337 
 10,115,738 
 90,081,825 
 128,626,567 
 1,798,855 
 2,618,554 
 5,191,579 
 4,280,387 
 (6,363,454)
 (5,916,565)
 90,708,805 
 129,608,943 
 384,087,958
 387,704,220
 370,810,934 
 131,532,794 
 87,183,326 
 266,651,566 
 77,585,004 
 69,235,393 
 83,370,958 
 125,876,219 
 704,814,476 
 685,097,188 
 144,828,392 
 69,713,219 
 3,764,791 
107,517,266
 63,806,457 
 56,850,702 
 93,367,463 
 75,396,573 
 374,426,092 
384,563,587

228 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
8.	
OPERATING SEGMENT INFORMATION (CONTD.)
8.3	
 Business Segment analysis - Disaggregation of revenue - Business segment analysis 
 
GROUP
 
2023
2022
For the year ended 31 March
In Rs.‘000s
Sale of 
goods
Rendering
of services
Total
revenue
Sale of 
goods
Rendering
of services
Total
revenue
Transportation
 70,829,986 
 2,816,120 
 73,646,106 
 30,188,848 
 1,699,199 
 31,888,047 
Consumer Foods 
 31,268,870 
 - 
 31,268,870 
 21,007,883 
 - 
 21,007,883 
Retail
 106,715,142 
 133,426 
 106,848,568 
 90,659,816 
 182,414 
 90,842,230 
Leisure
 - 
 39,677,238 
 39,677,238 
 - 
 18,878,616 
 18,878,616 
Property
 552,474 
 1,569,874 
 2,122,348 
 35,220,257 
 511,132 
 35,731,389 
Financial Services
 - 
 16,202,957 
 16,202,957 
 - 
 15,685,763 
 15,685,763 
Others
 3,743,937 
 3,129,883 
 6,873,820 
 2,018,797 
 2,022,021 
 4,040,818 
Group revenue
 213,110,409 
 63,529,498 
 276,639,907 
 179,095,601 
 38,979,145 
 218,074,746 
8.4 	
 Disaggregation of revenue - Geographical segment analysis (by location of customers) 
 
GROUP
For the year ended 31 March
In Rs.‘000s
2023
2022
Sri Lanka
 183,951,601 
170,809,324
Asia (excluding Sri Lanka)
 34,539,211 
16,513,760
Europe
 34,864,970 
19,604,217
Others
 23,284,125 
11,147,445 
Group external revenue
 276,639,907 
218,074,746
8.5 	
 Geographical segments, based on the location of assets 
 
Sri Lanka
Asia 
(excluding Sri Lanka)
Group Total
As at/for the period ended 31 March
In Rs.‘000s
2023
2022
2023
2022
2023
2022
Group external revenue
 254,035,299 
 207,676,917 
 22,604,608 
 10,397,829 
 276,639,907 
 218,074,746 
Segment revenue
 261,470,529 
 212,676,540 
 22,647,648 
 10,446,756 
 284,118,177 
 223,123,296 
Segment results
11,537,476
5,239,287
2,809,671
 960,429 
 14,349,147 
6,199,716
Segment assets
642,642,346
623,612,925
 62,172,130 
 61,484,263 
704,814,476
685,097,188
Segment liabilities
320,695,977
330,636,732
 53,730,115 
 53,926,855 
374,426,092
384,563,587
Purchase and construction of property, plant 
and equipment
6,291,111
6,421,345
782,747
 205,431 
 7,073,858 
6,626,776
Purchase and construction of intangible assets
 1,295,790 
1,360,177
 - 
 - 
 1,295,790 
1,360,177
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment
 5,159,591 
3,943,240
 1,121,019 
 1,070,964 
 6,280,610 
5,014,204
Amortisation of intangible assets
 852,249 
 703,906 
 - 
 - 
 852,249 
 703,906 
Amortisation of right- of - use assets
 1,418,893 
 1,265,845 
 2,732,337 
 1,575,944 
 4,151,230 
 2,841,789 
Employee benefit provision and related costs
 (195,682)
 584,154 
 - 
 - 
 (195,682)
 584,154 
Investments in equity accounted investees
 38,486,219 
 33,865,556 
 - 
 - 
 38,486,219 
 33,865,556 

229
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
 9.	
 BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION AND MATERIAL PARTLY 
OWNED SUBSIDIARIES 
Accounting policy 
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial 
statements of the Group and its subsidiaries as at the end of reporting 
period. Control over an investee is achieved when the Group is 
exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the 
investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power 
over the investee.
Control over an investee 
Specifically, the Group controls an investee if, and only if, the Group has:
	y
Power over the investee (i.e., existing rights that give it the current 
ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee)
	y
Exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the 
investee
	y
The ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns
Consolidation of entities in which the Group holds less than a 
majority of voting rights 
When the Group has less than a majority of the voting or similar rights 
of an investee, the Group considers all relevant facts and circumstances 
in assessing whether it has power over an investee, including:
	y
The contractual arrangement with the other vote holders of the 
investee; 
	y
Rights arising from other contractual arrangements; and
	y
The Group’s voting rights and potential voting rights
Subsidiaries that are consolidated have been listed in the Group 
directory under Supplementary section of the annual report.
The following companies, with equity control equal to or less than 50%, 
have been consolidated as subsidiaries based on above criteria. 
 
 % Holding 
Rajawella Holdings Ltd
49.85
Mack Air Services Maldives (Pte) Ltd 
49.00
Tea Smallholder Factories PLC
37.62
The Group re-assesses whether or not it controls an investee, if facts 
and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of 
the three elements of control. Consolidation of a subsidiary begins 
when the Group obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when 
the Group loses control of the subsidiary. Assets, liabilities, income and 
expenses of a subsidiary acquired or disposed of during the year are 
included in the consolidated financial statements from the date the 
Group gains control until the date the Group ceases to control the 
subsidiary.	
Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive income 
(OCI) are attributed to the equity holders of the parent of the Group 
and to the non-controlling interests, even if this results in the non- 
controlling interests having a deficit balance. The financial statements 
of the subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting period as 
the parent Company, which is 12 months ending 31 March, using 
consistent accounting policies. 
Transactions eliminated on Consolidation 
All intra-group assets, liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash 
flows relating to transactions between members of the Group are 
eliminated in full on consolidation. A change in the ownership interest 
of a subsidiary, without a loss of control, is accounted for as an equity 
transaction.
Loss of control
If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it derecognises the related 
assets (including goodwill), liabilities, non-controlling interest and other 
components of equity while any resultant gain or loss is recognised in 
the income statement. Any investment retained is recognised at fair 
value. The total profits and losses for the year of the Company and of 
its subsidiaries included in consolidation are shown in the consolidated 
income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive 
income and all assets and liabilities of the Company and of its 
subsidiaries included in consolidation are shown in the Consolidated 
Statement of Financial Position.	
Non-controlling interest (NCI)
Non-controlling interest which represents the portion of profit or loss 
and net assets not held by the Group, are shown as a component of 
profit for the year in the consolidated income statement and statement 
of comprehensive income and as a component of equity in the 
consolidated statement of financial position, separately from equity 
attributable to the shareholders of the parent.
The Consolidated Statement of Cash Flow includes the cash flows of 
the Company and its subsidiaries.

230 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
9.	
 BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION AND MATERIAL PARTLY OWNED SUBSIDIARIES (CONTD.)
9.1 	
 Material partly-owned subsidiaries 
Financial information of subsidiaries that have material non-controlling interests (NCI) are provided below.
 
Leisure 
Consumer Foods
Retail
In Rs.‘000s
2023
2022
2023
2022
2023
2022
Summarised Total Comprehensive Income 
Statement for the period ended 31 March
Revenue
 39,731,355 
 18,914,184 
 33,776,305 
 22,789,929 
 107,055,829 
 91,055,934 
Operating cost
 (36,539,683)
 (18,821,252)
 (30,903,840)
 (19,745,444)
 (102,465,649)
 (89,496,281)
Finance cost
 (3,084,504)
 (1,354,402)
 (955,716)
 (180,182)
 (4,104,980)
 (1,880,525)
Finance income
 292,374 
 109,286 
 65,532 
 36,885 
 196,401 
 331,717 
Change in fair value of investment property
 415,701 
 272,176 
 24,149 
 16,955 
 (3,085)
 - 
Profit before tax 
 815,243 
 (880,008)
 2,006,430 
 2,918,143 
 678,516 
 10,845 
Tax expense
 41,326 
 (45,208)
 580,918 
 (422,136)
 737,612 
 (871,971)
Profit for the year 
 856,569 
 (925,216)
 2,587,348 
 2,496,007 
 1,416,128 
 (861,126)
Other comprehensive income
 4,620,526 
 7,709,765 
 (97,231)
 445,646 
 142,242 
 77,464 
Total comprehensive income
 5,477,095 
 6,784,549 
 2,490,117 
 2,941,653 
 1,558,370 
 (783,662)
Profit/(loss) allocated to NCI
 (182,808)
 (354,038)
 325,198
 335,195 
 114,671
 108,455 
Dividend paid to NCI
 33,574
-
 242,468
 303,576 
 142,342
 47,122 
Summarised Statement of Financial Position as 
at 31 March
Non-current assets
356,067,085
120,253,329
 13,016,251 
11,632,161
31,907,619
 30,400,747 
Current assets
26,228,533
11,279,465
 8,285,136 
8,285,136
 15,392,717 
19,353,268 
Total assets
382,295,618
 131,532,794 
 21,301,387 
 19,917,297 
47,300,336
 49,754,015 
Non-current liabilities
 47,510,875 
 47,510,875 
 1,314,538 
 1,314,538 
 16,873,364 
 18,196,261 
Current liabilities
 22,202,344 
 22,202,344 
 7,078,159 
 7,078,159 
 28,390,207 
 29,820,354 
Total liabilities
 69,713,219 
 69,713,219 
 8,392,697 
 8,392,697 
 45,263,571 
 48,016,615 
Accumulated balances of NCI
 13,312,276
 11,436,504
 5,726,737
 5,071,929
1,905,946
 1,327,956
Summarised Statement of Cash Flows for the 
year ended 31 March
Cash flows from/(used in) operating activities
 3,799,933 
514,163
 (562,357)
 2,966,726 
 (6,114,653)
 7,921,836 
Cash flows from/(used in) investing activities
 (1,407,021)
 (679,397)
 (1,572,338)
 (1,508,946)
 (3,501,597)
 (3,148,738)
Cash flows from/(used in) financing activities
 (4,364,007)
4,526,341
 (1,451,251)
 (1,910,526)
 (4,096,593)
 (2,440,274)
Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash 
equivalents
 (1,971,095)
4,361,107
 (3,585,946)
(452,746)
 (13,712,843)
 2,332,824 
The above information is based on amounts before inter-company eliminations.
Names of material partly-owned subsidiaries and effective holding % 
owned by non-controlling interest:
Considering the Group balances, none of the individual partly-owned 
subsidiaries have material non-controlling interest. However, the above 
information has been presented on the aggregated interests in similar 
entities namely, the Leisure, Consumer Foods and Retail segment, based 
on the nature and risks of the products and services.
John Keells Holdings has material partly owned subsidiaries in Consumer 
Foods, Retail and Leisure sectors.
In Consumer Foods Sector, Ceylon Cold Stores PLC, Keells Food Products 
PLC and The Colombo Ice Company (Pvt) Ltd has an effective holding 
owned by non-controlling interest ranging from 11.37% - 18.64% as at 
31 March 2023 (2022 - 11.37% - 18.64 %).
In Retail Sector, JayKay Marketing Services (Pvt) Ltd and Logipark 
International (Pvt) Ltd both have 18.64% effective holding owned by 
non-controlling interest as at 31 March 2023 (2022 - 18.64%).

231
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
Under Leisure Sector, following companies have significant partly 
owned subsidiaries with effective holding percentage owned by non-
controlling interest ranged from 1.65% - 24.67% (2022 – 24.67%). 
The Leisure Sector subsidiaries include Ahungalla Holiday Resorts (Pvt) 
Ltd, Asian Hotels and Properties PLC, Beruwala Holiday Resorts (Pvt) 
Ltd, Ceylon Holiday Resorts Ltd, Cinnamon Holidays (Pvt) Ltd, Fantasea 
World Investments (Pte) Ltd, Habarana Lodge Ltd, Habarana Walk Inn Ltd, 
Hikkaduwa Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd, International Tourists and Hoteliers 
Ltd, John Keells Hotels PLC, John Keells Maldivian Resorts (Pte) Ltd, Kandy 
Walk Inn Ltd, Nuwara Eliya Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd, Rajawella Hotels 
Company Ltd, Resort Hotels Ltd, Serene Holidays (Pvt) Ltd, Tranquility 
(Pte) Ltd, Trans Asia Hotels PLC, Travel Club (Pte) Ltd, Trinco Holiday 
Resorts (Pvt) Ltd, Trinco Walk Inn Ltd, Walkers Tours Ltd, Wirawila Walk Inn 
Ltd and Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd.
Please refer Note 26 for the individual company’s effective holdings.
Accounting judgements,estimates and assumptions
Consolidation of entities in which the Group holds less than a 
majority of voting right (de facto control).
The Group considers that it controls some subsidiaries even though it 
owns less than 50% of the voting rights. This is because the Group is the 
single largest shareholder of those subsidiaries with equity interest. The 
remaining equity shares in those subsidiaries are widely held by many 
other shareholders, and there is no history of the other shareholders 
collaborating to exercise their votes collectively or to outvote the Group.
10.	
BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND ACQUISITIONS OF NON-
CONTROLLING INTERESTS 
Accounting policy 
Business combinations & goodwill
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method 
of accounting. The Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date as 
the fair value of the consideration transferred including the recognised 
amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree, less the net 
recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets 
acquired and liabilities assumed, all measured as of the acquisition date.
When the fair value of the consideration transferred including the 
recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree is 
lower than the fair value of net assets acquired, a gain is recognised 
immediately in the income statement. The Group elects on a 
transaction-by-transaction basis whether to measure non-controlling 
interests at fair value, or at their proportionate share of the recognised 
amount of the identifiable net assets, at the acquisition date. Transaction 
costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity 
securities, that the Group incurs in connection with a business 
combination are expensed as incurred. When the Group acquires a 
business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for 
appropriate classification and designation in accordance with the 
contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as 
at the acquisition date. If the business combination is achieved in stages, 
the acquisition date fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity 
interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date 
through profit or loss. Any contingent consideration to be transferred 
by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. 
Contingent consideration, resulting from business combinations, is 
valued at fair value at the acquisition date. Contingent consideration 
classified as equity is not remeasured and its subsequent settlement is 
accounted for within equity. Contingent consideration classified as an 
asset or liability that is a financial instrument and within the scope of 
SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments, is measured at fair value with the changes 
in fair value recognised in the Income Statement, in accordance with 
SLFRS 9.
Other contingent consideration that is not within the scope of SLFRS 9 is 
measured at fair value at each reporting date with changes in fair value 
recognised in profit or loss.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any 
accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment, 
annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business 
combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the 
Group’s cash generating units that are expected to benefit from the 
combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the 
acquiree are assigned to those units.
Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of 
the cash-generating unit to which the goodwill relates. Where the 
recoverable amount of the cash generating unit is less than the carrying 
amount, an impairment loss is recognised. The impairment loss is 
allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated 
to the unit and then to the other assets pro-rata to the carrying amount 
of each asset in the unit. Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on 
the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities 
of the foreign operation and translated at the closing rate.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the 
operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated 
with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of 
the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the 
operation, goodwill disposed in this circumstance is measured based on 
the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the 
cash-generating unit retained.	
Impairment of goodwill
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually (as at 31 March) when 
circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired. 
Impairment is determined for goodwill by assessing the recoverable 
amount of each cash-generating unit (or group of cash-generating units) 
to which the goodwill relates. Where the recoverable amount of the cash 
generating unit is less than their carrying amount, an impairment loss is 
recognised. Impairment losses relating to goodwill cannot be reversed in 
future periods.
10.1 	 Investment in subsidiaries
Waterfront Properties (Pvt) Ltd (WPL) 
John Keells Holdings PLC (JKH) further invested Rs.80,913 Mn (2022 
- Rs.13,552 Mn) in WPL, a subsidiary of JKH involved in developing, 
owning, managing, operating, selling, leasing and renting of a luxury 
multi/mixed use Integrated Resort.

232 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
10.2 	 Investment in equity accounted investees
Colombo West International Container Terminal (Pvt) Ltd (CWIT)
John Keells Holdings PLC further invested Rs.2,723 Mn (2022 - Rs.2,856 
Mn) in CWIT as per the Build, Own and Transfer (BOT) Agreement 
between the Sri Lanka Ports Authority and CWIT.
11.	
 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES
The Group has loans and other receivables, trade and other receivables 
and cash and short-term deposits that arise directly from its operations. 
The Group also holds other financial instruments such as available 
for sale and fair value through profit or loss financial instruments and 
10. 	
BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND ACQUISITIONS OF NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS (CONTD.)
may enter into derivative transactions. The Group’s principal financial 
liabilities, comprise of loans and borrowings, trade and other payables 
and financial guarantee contracts. The main purpose of these financial 
liabilities is to finance the Group’s operations and to provide guarantees 
to support its operations. The financial risk governance framework 
provides assurance to the Group’s senior management that the 
Group’s financial risk activities are governed by appropriate policies 
and procedures and that financial risks are identified, measured and 
managed in accordance with the Group’s policies and risk objectives. The 
Group is exposed to market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
11.1.1 Risk exposure
The maximum risk positions of financial assets which are generally subject to credit risk are equal to their carrying amounts (without consideration of  
collateral, if available). Following table shows the maximum risk positions.	
As at 31 March
2023
In Rs.‘000s
Notes
 Non- 
current 
financial 
assets 
Cash in 
hand and 
at bank
Trade
and other
receivables
Short term 
investments
Amounts 
due from 
related 
parties
Group
Government securities
11.1.2
 45,906,390 
 - 
 - 
 7,521,144 
 - 
Corporate debt securities
11.1.3
 9,185,289 
 - 
 - 
 1,653,689 
 - 
Deposits with banks
11.1.4
 803,775 
 - 
 - 
 69,453,925 
 - 
Loans to executives
11.1.5
 1,260,602 
 - 
356,266
 - 
 - 
Loans to life policyholders
11.1.6
 2,199,675 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Preference shares 
11.1.7
-
-
-
-
-
Interest rate swap
11.1.8
 4,215,838 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Trade and other receivables
11.1.9
 - 
 - 
19,940,932
 - 
 - 
Reinsurance receivables
11.1.10
 - 
 - 
 590,215 
 - 
 - 
Assets backed securities
11.1.11
 314,276 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Premium receivable
11.1.12
 - 
 - 
 620,665 
 - 
 - 
Amounts due from related parties
11.1.13
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 317,700 
Cash in hand and at bank
11.1.14
 - 
 25,092,977 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total credit risk exposure 
 63,885,845 
 25,092,977 
 21,508,078 
 78,628,758 
 317,700 
Financial assets at fair value through P&L
11.3.3.1
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3,593,064 
 - 
Financial assets at fair value through OCI
11.3.3.2
 71,206 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total equity risk exposure 
 71,206 
 - 
 - 
 3,593,064 
 - 
Total 
 63,957,051 
 25,092,977 
 21,508,078 
 82,221,822 
 317,700 
Company
Deposits with banks
11.1.4
 - 
 - 
 - 
 57,473,253 
 - 
Loans to executives
11.1.5
 151,987 
 - 
 20,766 
 - 
 - 
Interest rate swap
11.1.8
 4,215,838 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Trade and other receivables
11.1.9
 - 
 - 
 186,967 
 - 
 - 
Amounts due from related parties
11.1.13
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,177,616 
Cash in hand and at bank
11.1.14
 - 
 8,232,006 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total credit risk exposure 
 4,367,825 
 8,232,006 
 207,733 
 57,473,253 
 1,177,616 
Financial assets at fair value through OCI
11.3.3.2
 37,158 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total equity risk exposure 
 37,158 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total 
 4,404,983 
 8,232,006 
 207,733 
 57,473,253 
 1,177,616 

233
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that the Group’s 
exposure to bad debts is not significant.
With respect to credit risk arising from the other financial assets of the 
Group, such as cash and cash equivalents, available-for-sale financial 
investments, investments, and certain derivative instruments, the Group’s 
exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty. The 
Group manages its operations to avoid any excessive concentration of 
counterparty risk and the Group takes all reasonable steps to ensure the 
counterparties fulfil their obligations.
11.1 	  Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not meet its obligations 
under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading to a financial 
loss. The Group is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities 
(primarily trade receivables) and from its financing activities, including 
deposits with banks and financial institutions, foreign exchange 
transactions and other financial instruments.
The Group trades only with recognised, creditworthy third parties. It is 
the Group’s policy that all clients who wish to trade on credit terms are 
subject to credit verification procedures. In addition, receivable balances 
2022
Total
%
of 
allocation
 Non- 
current 
financial 
assets 
Cash in 
hand and 
at bank
Trade
and other
receivables
Short term
investments
Amounts 
due from 
related 
parties
Total
%
of 
allocation
 53,427,534 
28%
 31,752,878 
 - 
 - 
 10,704,129 
 - 
 42,457,007 
18%
 10,838,978 
6%
 9,553,315 
 - 
 - 
 1,454,315 
 - 
 11,007,630 
5%
 70,257,700 
37%
 632,491 
 - 
 - 
 95,936,007 
 - 
 96,569,378 
41%
1,616,868
1%
 1,048,842 
 - 
 326,682 
 - 
 - 
 1,375,524 
1%
 2,199,675 
1%
 1,952,394 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,952,394 
1%
-
-
 373,701 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 373,701 
0%
 4,215,838 
2%
 2,928,815 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2,928,815 
1%
19,940,932
11%
 - 
 - 
 25,550,066 
 - 
 - 
 25,550,066 
11%
 590,215 
0%
 - 
 - 
 1,135,652 
 - 
 - 
 1,135,652 
0%
 314,276 
0%
 314,304 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
314,304
0%
 620,665 
0%
 - 
 - 
482,948
 - 
 - 
482,948
0%
 317,700 
0%
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 196,394 
 196,394 
0%
 25,092,977 
14%
 - 
 52,376,531 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 52,376,531 
22%
 189,433,358
100%
 48,556,740 
 52,376,531 
27,495,348
 108,095,331 
 196,394 
236,406,039
100%
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2,626,213 
 - 
 133,749 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 133,749 
 - 
 - 
 2,626,213 
 - 
 48,690,489 
 52,376,531 
27,495,348
 110,721,544 
 196,394 
 57,473,253 
80%
 - 
 - 
 - 
 83,972,660 
 - 
 83,972,660 
73%
 172,753 
0%
 66,659 
 - 
 23,078 
 - 
 - 
 89,737 
0%
 4,215,838 
6%
 2,928,815 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2,928,815 
2%
 186,967 
0%
 - 
 - 
 80,836 
 - 
 - 
 80,836 
0%
 1,177,616 
2%
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 660,699 
 660,699 
1%
 8,232,006 
12%
 - 
 27,362,010 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 27,362,010 
24%
 71,458,433 
100%
 2,995,474 
 27,362,010 
 103,914 
 83,972,660 
 660,699 
 115,094,757 
100%
 87,563 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 87,563 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3,083,037 
 27,362,010 
 103,914 
 83,972,660 
 660,699 

234 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
11.1.3 Corporate debt securities 
As at 31 March 2023 corporate debt securities comprise 6% (2022 - 5%) 
of the total investments in debt securities, out of which 20% (2022 - 47%) 
were rated “A” or better, or guaranteed by a banking institution with a 
rating of “A” or better.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
GROUP
As at 31 March
2023
2022
Fitch ratings
 In Rs.’000s 
% 
 In Rs.’000s 
% 
AA
 - 
-
 959,461 
9%
AA- 
 - 
-
 863,526 
8%
A+
 607,585 
6%
 895,622 
8%
A 
 1,568,959 
14%
 2,407,965 
22%
A-
 829,469 
8%
 2,179,836 
20%
BBB+
 2,596,193 
32%
 3,212,371 
29%
BBB
 3,471,458
24%
 114,312 
1%
BBB-
 1,549,735 
14%
- 
-
B-
 - 
-
 158,934 
1%
CC
 215,579 
2%
 215,603 
2%
Total 
 10,838,978 
100%
 11,007,630 
100%
 
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2023
 2022
2023
 2022
Fitch ratings
 In Rs.
’000s 
% 
 In Rs.
’000s 
% 
 In Rs.
’000s 
% 
 In Rs.
’000s 
%
AA- 
 2,988,505 
4%
 80,016,461 
83%
 - 
 - 
 54,088,324 
64%
A+
 - 
 - 
1,120,113
1%
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
A 
 44,491,946 
63%
 6,187,339 
7%
 35,629,545 
62%
 21,689,059 
26%
A-
 22,777,249 
33%
 985,225 
1%
 21,843,708 
38%
 - 
 - 
CC
 - 
 - 
 8,260,240 
8%
 - 
 - 
 8,195,277 
10%
Total
 70,257,700 
100%
 96,569,378
100%
 57,473,253 
100%
 83,972,660 
100%
11. 	
 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (CONTD.)
11.1.2 Government securities 
As at 31 March 2023 as shown in table above, 28% (2022 - 18%) of debt 
 securities comprise investments in government securities consist of  
treasury bonds, bills and reverse repo investments. 
11.1.4 Deposits with banks
Deposits with bank mainly consist of fixed and call deposits .
As at 31 March 2023, fixed and call deposits comprise 67% (2022 - 91%) and 62% (2022 - 90%) for the Group and Company respectively were rated “A” 
or better.
11.1.5 Loans to executives 
Loans to executive portfolio is largely made up of vehicle loans which 
are given to staff at assistant manager level and above. The respective 
business units have obtained the necessary promissory notes as 
collateral for the loans granted.	
11.1.6 Loans to life policyholders 
The surrender value of insurance policies considered as the collateral for the 
loans given to life policy holders by Union Assurance PLC. System controls 
are in place to automatically convert a policy to lapse stage when the policy 
loan amount together with the interest is reaching the surrender value of 
the policy.

235
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
11.1.9 Trade and other receivables 	
 
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
In Rs.‘000s
2023
2022
2023
2022
Neither past due nor impaired
 7,367,072
8,295,935
170,823
 15,490 
Past due but not impaired
	 0-30 days
 6,479,147 
10,471,326
1,680
 19,577 
	 31–60 days
 2,059,955 
3,751,646
1,286
 9,184 
	 61–90 days
 373,006 
1,893,908
1,566
 33,437 
	 > 91 days
4,139,581
1,816,823
12,295
4,092
Gross carrying value
20,418,761
 26,229,638 
 187,650
 81,780 
Allowance for expected credit losses
 (477,829)
 (679,572)
(683)
 (944)
Total
 19,940,932 
 25,550,066 
 186,967 
 80,836 
The Group has obtained customer deposit from major customers by 
reviewing their past performance and credit worthiness, as collateral. 
The requirement for an impairment is analysed at each reporting date 
on an individual basis for major customers and uses a provision matrix to 
calculate Expected Credit Loss (ECL) for the balance. The provision rates 
are based on days past due for groupings of various customer segments 
that have similar loss patterns.
The provision matrix was initially based on the Group’s historical 
observed default rates. The Group calibrates the matrix to adjust the 
historical credit loss experience with forward-looking information. At 
every reporting date, the historical observed default rates are updated 
and changes in the forward-looking estimates are analysed.
The Group considers a financial asset including trade and receivable 
in default when contractual payments are 90 days past due. However, 
in certain cases, the Group may also consider a financial asset to be in 
default when internal or external information indicates that the Group 
is unlikely to receive the outstanding contractual amounts in full before 
taking into account any credit enhancements held by the Group. A 
financial asset is written off when there is no reasonable expectation of 
recovering the contractual cash flows.
11.1.10 Reinsurance receivables 
The Union Assurance PLC operates a policy to manage its reinsurance 
counterparty exposures by limiting the reinsurers that may be used and 
applying strict limits each reinsurer.
11.1.11 Asset Backed Securities 
Asset Backed Securities are fixed income instruments created through 
securitisation. This involves transferring assets (collateral) from the 
original owner to the trustee and then issuing securities based by these 
assets. The asset cash flows of the collateral are used to pay interest 
and re- pay capital. The Group closely monitors the grate rate of the 
investment to mitigate the credit risk associated. 
11.1.12 Premium receivable 
Only designated institutions are employed as intermediary parties 
by Union Assurance PLC Agreements have been signed within the 
intermediaries committing them to settle dues within a specified time 
period.
11.1.13 Amounts due from related parties 
The Group's amounts due from related parties mainly consists of 
associates and other venture partners' balances. The Company balance 
consists of the balances from affiliate companies.
11.1.14 Credit risk relating to cash in hand and bank balance 
In order to mitigate the concentration, settlement and operational risks 
related to cash and cash equivalents, the Group consciously manages 
the exposure to a single counterparty taking into consideration, where 
relevant, the rating or financial standing of the counterparty, where the 
position is reviewed as and when required, the duration of the exposure 
in managing such exposures and the nature of the transaction and 
agreement governing the exposure. 
11.1.7 Preference Shares 
Cumulative preference share investment which has lien over an asset, 
redeemable at the option of shareholder.
11.1.8 Interest rate swap
The Group has entered into interest rate swap that is a cash flow hedge. 
The changes in counterparty credit risk had no material effect on the 
hedge effectiveness assessment for derivatives designated in hedge 
relationships. Refer Note 13.3.

236 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
11. 	
 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (CONTD.)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
11.2.2 	
 Liquidity risk management 
The mixed approach combines elements of the cash flow matching 
approach and the liquid assets approach. 
The Group has implemented a mixed approach that combines elements 
of the cash flow matching approach and the liquid assets approach. The 
business units matched cash outflows in each time bucket against the 
combination of contractual cash inflows plus other inflows that can be 
generated through the sale of assets, repurchase agreement, or other 
secured borrowings.
The Group continued to place emphasis on ensuring that cash and 
undrawn committed facilities are sufficient to meet the short, medium 
and long-term funding requirements, unforeseen obligations as well 
as unanticipated opportunities. Constant dialogue between Group 
companies and banks regarding financing requirements, ensures that 
availability within each single borrower limit is optimised by efficiently 
reallocating under-utilised facilities within the Group. 
The Government of Sri Lanka offered certain relief measures including a 
moratorium on repayment of loans and concessionary working capital 
facilities for eligible industries. Group companies qualified for such relief 
measures and it helped ease the financial position further during the 
financial year. 
The daily cash management processes at the business units include 
active cash flow forecasts and matching the duration and profiles of 
assets and liabilities, thereby ensuring a prudent balance between 
liquidity and earnings.
11.2.1 Net debt/(cash) 
 
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2023
2022
2023
2022
In Rs.'000s
Short term investments
 82,221,822 
 110,721,544 
 57,473,253 
 83,972,660 
Cash in hand and at bank
 25,092,977 
 52,376,531 
 8,232,006 
 27,362,010 
Adjustments to liquid assets
 (6,974,998)
 (6,008,147)
 - 
 - 
Total liquid assets
 100,339,801 
 157,089,928 
 65,705,259 
 111,334,670 
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings (Non-current)
 159,778,892 
 158,921,898 
 66,907,718 
 64,634,033 
Liability attributable to Convertible Debentures
 18,380,148 
 - 
 18,380,148 
 - 
Lease liabilities (Non-current)
 32,052,489 
 30,066,952 
 - 
 - 
Short term borrowings
 8,701,652 
 14,833,056 
 1,300,000 
 2,000,000 
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings (Current)
 12,839,426 
 40,624,448 
 3,344,997 
 2,562,994 
Lease liabilities (Current)
 2,258,653 
 3,459,496 
 - 
 - 
Bank overdrafts
 30,048,743 
 20,321,777 
 172,372 
 2,939,311 
Total liabilities
 264,060,003 
 268,227,627 
 90,105,235 
 72,136,338 
Net debt / (cash)
 163,720,202 
 111,137,699 
 24,399,976 
 (39,198,332)
11.2 	  Liquidity risk 
The Group’s policy is to hold cash and undrawn committed facilities at 
a level sufficient to ensure that the Group has available funds to meet 
its short and medium term capital and funding obligations, including 
organic growth and acquisition activities, and to meet any unforeseen 
obligations and opportunities. The Group holds cash and undrawn 
committed facilities to enable the Group to manage its liquidity risk.
The Group monitors its risk to a shortage of funds using a daily cash 
management process. This process considers the maturity of both 
the Group’s financial investments and financial assets (e.g. accounts 
receivable, other financial assets) and projected cash flows from 
operations.
The Group’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of 
funding and flexibility through the use of multiple sources of funding 
including debentures, bank loans, loan notes, overdrafts and finance 
leases over a broad spread of maturities.

237
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities at 31 March 2022 based on contractual undiscounted (principal plus 
interest) payments.
In Rs.‘000s
Within 1 
year
Between
1-2 years
Between
2-3 years
Between
3-4 years
Between
4-5 years
More than 
5 years
Total
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
44,444,003
30,103,624
37,649,735
38,215,436
32,110,580
40,827,883
223,351,262
Lease liabilities
4,782,574
3,739,568
4,953,710
3,413,157
3,498,153
22,539,787
42,926,949
Trade and other payables
 43,469,407 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 43,469,407 
Amounts due to related parties
 1,818 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,818 
Short term borrowings
 14,833,056 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 14,833,056 
Bank overdrafts
 20,321,777 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 20,321,777 
127,852,636
33,843,192
42,603,445
41,628,593
35,608,733
63,367,670
344,904,269
Maturity analysis - Company
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Company’s financial liabilities at 31 March 2023 based on contractual undiscounted (principal 
plus interest) payments.
In Rs.‘000s
Within 1 
year
Between
1-2 years
  Between 
2-3 years  
  Between 
3-4 years  
  Between
4-5 years 
  More than
5 Years 
Total
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 
 7,192,964 
 10,036,388 
 16,582,561 
 13,634,699 
 12,561,837 
 27,160,286 
 87,168,735 
Convertible debenture
811,687
813,911
27,458,758
-
-
-
29,084,357
Trade and other payables 
 631,405 
-
-
-
-
-
 631,405 
Amounts due to related parties 
 58,244 
-
-
-
-
-
 58,244 
Short term borrowings
 1,300,000 
-
-
-
-
-
 1,300,000 
Bank overdrafts 
 172,372 
-
-
-
-
-
 172,372 
 10,166,673 
 10,850,299 
 44,041,319 
 13,634,699 
 12,561,837 
 27,160,286  118,415,113 
Maturity analysis - Group
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities at 31 March 2023 based on contractual undiscounted (principal plus 
interest) payments.
GROUP
In Rs.‘000s
Within 1 
year
Between
1-2 years
Between
2-3 years
Between
3-4 years
Between
4-5 years
More than 
5 years
Total
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
 25,794,290 
 32,963,699 
 35,025,155 
 77,783,057 
 13,380,226 
 28,315,286 
 213,261,713 
Lease liabilities
 3,728,265 
 5,570,684 
 3,812,219 
 3,901,551 
 3,050,595 
 23,068,693 
 43,132,007 
Convertible debenture
811,687
813,911
27,458,758
-
-
-
29,084,357
Trade and other payables
 29,866,282 
-
-
-
-
-
 29,866,282 
Amounts due to related parties
 3,615 
-
-
-
-
-
 3,615 
Short term borrowings
 8,701,652 
-
-
-
-
-
 8,701,652 
Bank overdrafts
 30,048,743 
-
-
-
-
-
 30,048,743 
 98,954,535 
 39,348,294 
 66,296,132 
 81,684,608 
 16,430,821 
 51,383,979 
 354,098,369 

238 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
11. 	
 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (CONTD.)
11.3 	  Market risk 	
Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial 
instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market prices.
Market risk comprises of the following types of risk:
* Interest rate risk
* Currency risk
* Equity price risk
* Commodity price risk
The objective of market risk management is to manage and 
control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while 
optimising the return.
The sensitivity analyses in the following sections relate to the 
position as at 31 March in 2023 and 2022.
The analysis excludes the impact of movements in market variables 
on the carrying values of other post-retirement obligations, 
provisions, and the non-financial assets and liabilities.
The following assumptions have been made in calculating the 
sensitivity analyses:
* 	The sensitivity of the Statement of Financial Position item mainly 
relates to derivatives and debt instruments.
* The sensitivity of the relevant Income Statement item is the effect 
of the assumed changes in respective market risks. 
* This is based on the financial assets and financial liabilities held at 
31 March 2023 and 2022. 
11.3.1 Interest rate risk 
Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows 
of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in 
market interest rates. The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes in 
market interest rates relate primarily to the Group’s long-term debt 
obligations with floating interest rates. 
To manage the exposure of floating interest rates which is 
common to most loans, the Group enters into interest rate swaps, 
where necessary and applicable, in which it agrees to exchange, 
at specified intervals, the difference between fixed and variable 
rate interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed upon 
notional principal amount. 
The Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL) continued the tightening of its 
monetary policy stance during the current financial year, resulting 
in a sharp upward trend in rates in the first half of the financial year, 
particularly with the uncertainty of a domestic debt restructuring 
being factored in to secondary market yields on Government 
Securities. The shortage of liquidity in the first half of the financial 
year put further pressure on market interest rates. There was a 
decrease in interest rates in the last three months of the financial 
year on account of the reduced Government debt financing 
requirements and improved liquidity position in the country. 
The Group had mitigated the risk of increasing interest rates by 
balancing its portfolio of borrowings and moving a sizeable portion 
of its Sri Lankan Rupee borrowings on a long-term basis prior to the 
sharp upward movement in interest rates. Similarly, where relevant 
and possible, a majority of the Rupee long-term facilities were on a 
fixed rate basis over the tenor of the loan. In respect of the Group’s 
foreign currency borrowing portfolio, interest rate swap agreements 
are in place for a sizeable portion of the facilities.
The table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible 
change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, of the 
Group’s and Company's profit before tax (through the impact on 
floating rate borrowings). 
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Company's financial liabilities at 31 March 2022 based on contractual undiscounted (principal 
plus interest) payments. 
In Rs.‘000s
Within 1 
year
Between
1-2 years
  Between 
2-3 years  
  Between 
3-4 years  
  Between
4-5 years 
  More than
5 Years 
Total
 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 
 5,374,976 
 5,846,223 
 9,525,647 
 15,522,813 
 12,963,246 
 40,417,925 
 89,650,830 
 Trade and other payables 
 566,252 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 566,252 
 Amounts due to related parties 
 20,912 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 20,912 
Short term borrowings
 2,000,000 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2,000,000 
 Bank overdrafts 
 2,939,311 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2,939,311 
 10,901,451 
 5,846,223 
 9,525,647 
 15,522,813 
 12,963,246 
 40,417,925 
 95,177,305 

239
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
 
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
Increase/(decrease)
in exchange rate USD
Effect on profit 
before tax 
Rs.‘000s
Effect on equity 
Rs.‘000s
Effect on profit 
before tax 
Rs.‘000s
Effect on equity 
Rs.‘000s
2023
+13%
1,010,599
35,396,628
890,672
532,882
-13%
(1,010,599)
(35,396,628)
(890,672)
(532,882)
2022
+52%
23,158,974
88,861,968
27,672,121
1,524,448
-52%
(23,158,974)
(88,861,968)
(27,672,121)
(1,524,448)
 
GROUP
COMPANY
Increase/ (decrease) in basis points
Effect on profit before tax 
Rs.‘000s
For the year ended 31 March
Rupee 
borrowings
Other currency
borrowings
2023
+ 1916
 + 427
(11,907,043)
(4,715,482)
- 1916
-427
 11,907,043
4,715,482
2022
+138
+58
 (1,220,476)
 (498,851)
-138
-58
 1,220,476 
 498,851
The assumed spread of basis points for the interest rate sensitivity analysis is based on the currently observable market environment changes to base 
floating interest rates.
11.3.2 	
 Foreign currency risk 
Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows 
of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in foreign 
exchange rates. The Group has exposure to foreign currency risk where it 
has cash flows in overseas operations and foreign currency transactions 
which are affected by foreign exchange movements. The Group treasury 
analyses the market condition of foreign exchange and provides market 
updates to the Group Executive Committee (GEC), with the use of 
external consultants' advice. Based on the suggestions made by the 
Group treasury the GEC takes decisions on whether to hold, sell, or make 
forward bookings of foreign currency as per decision rights given by 
Board of Directors.
Assumptions
The assumed spread of the exchange rate is based on the current 
observable market environment.
The Sri Lankan Rupee depreciated significantly in the first two quarters 
of the financial year and witnessed significant volatility during certain 
periods of the financial year. The foreign exchange markets were 
largely inactive and illiquid during the first half of the financial year 
amidst significant foreign exchange shortages and macroeconomic 
uncertainty. However, from the second half of the financial year, the 
foreign exchange liquidity improved on the back of a trade surplus 
given the sharp contraction of imports due to the fiscal and monetary 
policy measures adopted in the country and the continuation of import 
restrictions at the time. The Rupee appreciated during the final quarter 
with the improving foreign exchange liquidity situation in the country 
and the impending EFF from the International Monetary Fund (IMF), at 
the time. The Group adopted prudent measures, as and when required, 
to manage the financial impacts arising from the liquidity constraints 
and currency fluctuations by matching liabilities with corresponding 
inflows. At a Group level, the translation risk on foreign currency debt 
is largely hedged “naturally” as a result of the conscious strategy of 
maintaining US Dollar cash balances at the holding company whilst also 
ensuring obligations can be managed through US Dollar denominated 
revenue streams. The Group was able to navigate the liquidity challenges 
through matching its obligations with foreign currency inflows, as far 
as possible and permissible, while also using the strength of the Group 
balance sheet to manage the situation. 
11.3.2.1 Effects of currency translation 
For purposes of Group consolidated financial statements, income and 
expenses and assets and liabilities of subsidiaries whose functional 
currency differs from the Group presentation currency are translated into 
the Group presentation currency. Therefore, period-to-period changes in 
average exchange rates may cause currency translation effects that have 
a significant impact on, for example, revenue, segment results (Earnings 
Before Interest and Taxes –EBIT) and assets and liabilities of the Group. 
Unlike exchange rate transaction risk, exchange rate translation risk 
does not necessarily affect future cash flows. The Group’s equity position 
reflects changes in book values caused by exchange rates.

240 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
 
GROUP
As at 31 March
2023
2022
Rs.’000s
% 
Rs.’000s
% 
Application Software
 49,812 
1%
 25,258 
1%
Banks
 396,380 
11%
 369,346 
14%
Capital Goods
 906,535 
25%
 972,803 
37%
Consumer Durables & Apparel
 398,982 
11%
 653,667 
24%
Consumer Services
 194,454 
5%
 52,532 
2%
Energy
 315,951 
10%
 - 
-
Food & Staples Retailing
 13,018 
0%
 - 
-
Food Beverage & Tobacco
 440,292 
12%
 197,718 
8%
Household & Personal Products
 - 
-
 4,527 
0%
Investment Banking & Brokerage
 36,709 
1%
 - 
-
Materials
 641,028 
18%
 69,533 
3%
Real Estate 
 16,063 
0%
 - 
-
Telecommunication Services
 183,840 
6%
 259,743 
10%
Transportation
 - 
-
 21,086 
1%
 3,593,064 
100%
 2,626,213 
100%
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
GROUP
For the year ended 31 March
Change in year-end
 market price index
Effect on profit
before tax Rs.‘000s
Effect on equity
Rs.‘000s
2023
+10%
359,306
-
-10%
(359,306)
-
2022
+28%
735,340
-
- 28%
 (735,340)
-
11. 	
 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (CONTD.)
11.3.3 Equity price risk 
The Group’s listed and unlisted equity securities are susceptible to 
market price risk arising from uncertainties about future values of the 
investment securities. 
11.3.3.1 Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss 
The Group manages the equity price risk through diversification and by 
placing limits on individual and total equity instruments. Reports on the 
equity portfolio are submitted to the Group’s senior management on 
a regular basis. The Board of Directors reviews and approves all equity 
investment decisions. 
11.3.3.2 Financial instruments at fair value through other 
comprehensive income statement 
All unquoted equity investments are made after obtaining Board of 
Directors approval. 
11.3.3.3 	  Sensitivity analysis 
The table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change 
in the market index, with all other variables held constant, of the Group 
and Company's profit before tax and equity due to changes in the fair 
value of the listed equity securities.

241
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
11.4 	  Capital management 
The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to ensure 
that it maintains a strong financial position and healthy capital ratios in 
order to support its business and maximise shareholder value. 
 
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2023
2022
2023
2022
Debt / Equity
73.3%
81.3%
46.7%
42.5%
12. 	
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT AND RELATED FAIR VALUE 
DISCLOSURES 
Fair value measurement 
Fair value related disclosures for financial instruments and non-financial 
assets that are measured at fair value or where fair values are only, disclosed 
are reflected in this note. Aside from this note, additional fair value related 
disclosures, including the valuation methods, significant estimates and 
assumptions are also provided in:
•	 Investment in unquoted equity shares - Note 28.1
•	 Property, plant and equipment under revaluation model -  
Note 22.3
•	 Investment properties - Note 24
•	 Financial Instruments (including those carried at amortised cost) - 
Note 13
Accounting policy
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to 
transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants 
at the measurement date. The fair value measurement is based on the 
presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability 
takes place either:
• 	 In the principal market for the asset or liability, or 
• 	 In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous 
market for the asset or liability 
The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible by 
the Group. 
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions 
that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, 
assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest.
A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account 
a market participant’s ability to generate economic benefits by using 
the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market 
participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the 
circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair 
value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising 
the use of unobservable inputs.
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in 
the financial statements are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, 
described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to 
the fair value measurement as a whole:
•	 Level 1 — Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active markets for 
identical assets or liabilities 
•	 Level 2 — Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that 
is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly 
observable
•	 Level 3 — Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is 
significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable.
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements 
on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have 
occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation 
(based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value 
measurement as a whole) at the end of each reporting period.
The Group determines the policies and procedures for both recurring fair 
value measurement, such as investment properties and unquoted equity 
instruments, and for non-recurring measurement, such as assets held for 
sale in discontinued operations.
The services of external valuers are obtained for valuation of significant 
assets, such as land and building and investment properties. Selection 
criteria for external valuers include market knowledge, reputation, 
independence and whether professional standards are maintained. 
The Group decides, after discussions with the external valuers, which 
valuation techniques and inputs to use for individual assets.
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group has determined 
classes of assets on the basis of the nature, characteristics and risks of the 
asset and the level of the fair value hierarchy as explained above.
The Group manages its capital structure, and makes adjustments to it, in 
the light of changes in economic conditions. To maintain or adjust the 
capital structure, the Group may issue new shares, have a rights issue or 
buy back of shares. 	

242 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
12. 	
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT AND RELATED FAIR VALUE DISCLOSURES (CONTD.)
12.1 	 Fair value measurement hierarchy - Group
The Group held the following financial instruments carried at fair value in the Statement of Financial Position:
 
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
As at 31 March
In Rs.‘000s
 
2023
2022
2023
2022
2023
2022
2023
2022
FINANCIAL ASSETS
Non-listed equity 
investments
 - 
 - 
 280 
 280 
 70,926 
 133,469 
 71,206 
 133,749 
Listed equity investments
 3,899,110 
 4,503,190 
 210 
 341 
 - 
 - 
 3,899,320 
 4,503,531 
Quoted debt instruments
 15,032,489 
 7,787,418 
 154,424 
 222,988 
 - 
 - 
 15,186,913 
 8,010,406 
Unquoted debt instruments
 - 
 - 
 7,569 
 87,345 
 - 
 - 
 7,569 
 87,345 
Interest rate swap
 - 
 - 
 4,215,838 
 2,928,815 
 - 
 - 
 4,215,838 
 2,928,815 
Total
 18,931,599 
 12,290,608 
 4,378,321 
 3,239,769 
 70,926 
 133,469 
 23,380,846 
 15,663,846 
NON FINANCIAL ASSETS
Assets measured at fair 
value
Note
Land and buildings
 22.1 
-
-
-
-
 69,771,307 
 63,957,286 
 69,771,307 
 63,957,286 
Buildings on leasehold land
 22.1 
-
-
-
-
 40,944,758 
 37,368,368 
 40,944,758 
 37,368,368 
Investment property
 24
-
-
-
-
 33,029,385 
 30,607,550 
 33,029,385 
 30,607,550 
Total
-
-
-
-  143,745,450  131,933,204  143,745,450  131,933,204 
In determining the fair value, highest and best use of the property has 
been considered including the current condition of the properties, 
future usability and associated redevelopment requirements. Also, the 
valuers have made reference to market evidence of transaction prices for 
similar properties, with appropriate adjustments for size and location. The 
appraised fair values are rounded within the range of values.
All the other financial instruments were properly categorised and during 
the period were not materially different from the transaction prices at the 
date of initial recognition. The fair value changes on financial instruments 
in Level 3 category was properly recorded in the statement of other 
comprehensive income Fair valuation was done as of 31 March 2023.
Financial assets at fair value through Profit and loss 
There may be an increase in the amount of subjectivity involved in fair 
value measurements, and as such, a greater use of unobservable inputs will 
be required because relevant observable inputs are no longer available. 
This will have a direct impact to the policyholder profit or loss where 
diversification of the portfolio with the unaffected and growing industries 
will mitigate the risk.
12.2 	 Fair value measurement hierarchy - Company
 FINANCIAL ASSETS
Level 2
Level 3
As at 31 March
2023
2022
2023
2022
In Rs.'000s
Non-listed equity investments
 - 
 - 
 37,158 
 87,563 
Interest rate swap
 4,215,838 
 2,928,815 
 - 
 - 
 4,215,838 
 2,928,815 
 37,158 
 87,563 

243
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
12.3 	 Reconciliation of fair value measurements of level 3 financial instruments
The Group and Company carries unquoted equity shares are classified as Level 3 within the fair value hierarchy. A reconciliation of the beginning and 
closing balances including movements is summarised below:
 
GROUP
COMPANY
In Rs.‘000s
Fair value through other 
comprehensive income
As at 1 April 2022
 133,469 
 87,563 
Purchase of equity shares 
 293 
165
Disposal of equity shares
(28,059)
(28,059)
Remeasurement recognised in OCI
(34,777)
 (22,511)
As at 31 March 2023
 70,926 
 37,158 
Fair valuation done as at 31 March 2023 for all unquoted equity shares are classified as Level 3 within the fair value hierarchy using fair valuation 
methodology. Fair value would not significantly vary if one or more of the inputs were changed.	
13.	
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RELATED POLICIES 
Accounting policy
Financial instruments — Initial recognition and subsequent 
measurement
Initial recognition and measurement
Financial assets within the scope of SLFRS 9 are classified as amortised 
cost, fair value through other comprehensive income (OCI), and fair 
value through profit or loss.
The classification of financial assets at initial recognition depends on the 
financial asset’s contractual cash flow characteristics and the Group’s 
business model for managing them. This assessment is referred to as the 
SPPI test and is performed at an instrument level. The business model 
determines whether cash flows will result from collecting contractual 
cash flows, selling the financial assets, or both. With the exception of 
trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing component 
or for which the Group has applied the practical expedient are measured 
at the transaction price.
At initial recognition, the Group measures a financial asset at its fair value 
plus, in the case of a financial asset not at fair value through profit or loss 
(FVPL), transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition 
of the financial asset. Transaction costs of financial assets carried at FVPL 
are expensed in profit or loss.
The Group’s financial assets include cash and short-term deposits, 
trade and other receivables, loans and other receivables, quoted and 
unquoted financial instruments and derivative financial instruments.
Subsequent measurement
For purposes of subsequent measurement, financial assets are classified 
in four categories
• 	 Financial assets at amortised cost
•	 Financial assets at fair value through OCI with recycling of cumulative 
gains and losses
•	 Financial assets designated at fair value through OCI with no recycling 
of cumulative gains and losses upon derecognition
• 	 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
Debt instruments
Financial assets at amortised cost
Assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows where 
those cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest 
are measured at amortised cost. The Group measures financial assets at 
amortised cost if both of the following conditions are met:
• 	 The financial asset is held within a business model with the objective 
to hold financial assets in order to collect contractual cash flows and
• 	 The contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates 
to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the 
principal amount outstanding. 
Financial assets at amortised cost are subsequently measured using the 
effective interest (EIR) method and are subject to impairment. Gains and 
losses are recognised in profit or loss when the asset is derecognised, 
modified or impaired.
The Group’s financial assets at amortised cost includes trade receivables 
and short term investments.	

244 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Financial assets at fair value through OCI
Assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows and for 
selling the financial assets, where the assets’ cash flows represent solely 
payments of principal and interest, are measured at FVOCI. The Group 
measures debt instruments at fair value through OCI if both of the 
following conditions are met:
• 	 The financial asset is held within a business model with the objective 
of both holding to collect contractual cash flows and selling and;
• 	 The contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates 
to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the 
principal amount outstanding.
Movements in the carrying amount are taken through OCI, except for 
the recognition of impairment gains or losses, interest income and 
foreign exchange gains and losses which are recognised in profit or 
loss. When the financial asset is derecognised, the cumulative gain or 
loss previously recognised in OCI is reclassified from equity to profit or 
loss and recognised in other gains/(losses). Interest income from these 
financial assets is included in finance income using the effective interest 
rate method. Foreign exchange gains and losses are presented in other 
gains/(losses) and impairment expenses are presented as separate line 
item in the income statement. 
Equity Instruments
Financial assets designated at fair value through OCI
Upon initial recognition, the Group can elect to classify irrevocably its 
equity investments as financial assets at fair value through OCI when 
they meet the definition of equity under LKAS 32 Financial Instruments: 
Presentation and are not held for trading. The classification is determined 
on an instrument-by-instrument basis.
Gains and losses on these financial assets are never recycled to profit 
or loss. Dividends are recognised as other income in the statement of 
profit or loss when the right of payment has been established, except 
when the Group benefits from such proceeds as a recovery of part of the 
cost of the financial asset, in which case, such gains are recorded in OCI. 
Equity instruments designated at fair value through OCI are not subject 
to impairment assessment.
The Group elected to classify irrevocably its non-listed equity 
investments under this category.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include financial assets 
held for trading, financial assets designated upon initial recognition at 
fair value through profit or loss, or financial assets mandatorily required 
to be measured at fair value. Financial assets are classified as held for 
trading if they are acquired for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in 
the near term. Derivatives, including separated embedded derivatives, 
are also classified as held for trading unless they are designated as 
effective hedging instruments. Financial assets with cash flows that are 
not solely payments of principal and interest are classified and measured 
at fair value through profit or loss, irrespective of the business model. 
Notwithstanding the criteria for debt instruments to be classified at 
amortised cost or at fair value through OCI, as described above, debt 
instruments may be designated at fair value through profit or loss on 
initial recognition if doing so eliminates, or significantly reduces, an 
accounting mismatch.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are carried in the 
statement of financial position at fair value with net changes in fair value 
recognised in the statement of profit or loss.
This category includes derivative instruments and listed equity 
investments which the Group had not irrevocably elected to classify at 
fair value through OCI. Dividends on listed equity investments are also 
recognised as finance income in the statement of profit or loss when the 
right of payment has been established.
Dividends received from equity instruments have been disclosed in  
Note 17.	
Financial assets - derecognition
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash 
flows from the financial assets have expired or have been transferred 
and the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of 
ownership.
Impairment of financial assets
The Group recognises an allowance for expected credit losses (ECLs) for 
all debt instruments not held at fair value through profit or loss. ECLs 
are based on the difference between the contractual cash flows due 
in accordance with the contract and all the cash flows that the Group 
expects to receive, discounted at the Group's effective interest rate. 
Based on the nature of the sector and the company, the Group is using 
appropriate and company specific LGD’s and PD’s when calculating the 
expected credit loss.
For trade receivables, the Group applies the simplified approach 
permitted by SLFRS 9, which requires expected lifetime losses to be 
recognised from initial recognition of the receivables. The Group has 
established a provision matrix that is based on its historical credit loss 
experience, adjusted for forward-looking factors specific to the debtors 
and the economic environment.
Financial Liabilities
Initial recognition and measurement
Financial liabilities are classified, at initial recognition, as financial 
liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, loans and borrowings, 
payables, or as derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an 
effective hedge, as appropriate.
All financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value and, in the 
case of loans and borrowings and payables, net of directly attributable 
transaction costs.	
The Group’s financial liabilities include trade and other payables, loans 
and borrowings including bank overdrafts, and derivative financial 
instruments.
Subsequent measurement
The measurement of financial liabilities depends on their classification, 
as described below:
13.	
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RELATED POLICIES (CONTD.)

245
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss include financial 
liabilities held for trading and financial liabilities designated upon initial 
recognition as at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial liabilities are classified as held for trading if they are incurred for 
the purpose of repurchasing in the near term. This category also includes 
derivative financial instruments entered into by the Group that are not 
designated as hedging instruments in hedge relationships as defined by 
SLFRS 9. Separated embedded derivatives are also classified as held for 
trading unless they are designated as effective hedging instruments.
Gains or losses on liabilities held for trading are recognised in the Income 
statement.
Loans and borrowings
This is the category most relevant to the Group. After initial recognition, 
interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at 
amortised cost using the EIR method. Gains and losses are recognised in 
profit or loss when the liabilities are derecognised as well as through the 
EIR amortisation process.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or 
premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part of the 
EIR. The EIR amortisation is included as finance costs in the statement of 
profit or loss.
Derecognition
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the 
liability is discharged or cancelled or expires. When an existing 
financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on 
substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are 
substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as 
the derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new 
liability. The difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised 
in the Income statement.
Offsetting of financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is 
reported in the consolidated statement of financial position if there is a 
currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts and 
there is an intention to settle on a net basis, to realise the assets and 
settle the liabilities simultaneously.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting - Initial 
recognition and subsequent measurement
The Group uses derivative financial instruments, such as forward 
currency contracts, interest rate swaps and forward commodity 
contracts, to hedge its foreign currency risks, interest rate risks and 
commodity price risks, respectively. Such derivative financial instruments 
are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative 
contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value. 
Derivatives are carried as financial assets when the fair value is positive 
and as financial liabilities when the fair value is negative.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as:
•	 Fair value hedges when hedging the exposure to changes in the 
fair value of a recognised asset or liability or an unrecognised firm 
commitment
•	 Cash flow hedges when hedging the exposure to variability in cash 
flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a 
recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction 
or the foreign currency risk in an unrecognised firm commitment
•	 Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation.

246 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
13.	
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RELATED POLICIES (CONTD.)
13.1 	 Financial assets and liabilities by categories in accordance with SLFRS 9 - Group
 
Financial assets at  
amortised cost
Financial assets at fair value 
through OCI
As at 31 March
In Rs.‘000s
2023
2022
2023
2022
Financial instruments in non-current assets / non-current liabilities
Non-current financial assets / liabilities
 51,296,399 
 43,524,568 
 12,080,643 
 5,085,311 
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Leases liabilities
-
-
-
-
Financial instruments in current assets / current liabilities
Trade and other receivables / payables
 21,508,078 
 27,495,348 
 - 
-
Amounts due from / due to related parties
 317,700 
 196,394 
 - 
-
Short term investments / borrowings
 82,221,822 
104,099,055
-
1,866,971
Cash in hand and at bank
 25,092,977 
 52,376,531 
 - 
-
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
-
-
-
-
Leases liabilities
-
-
-
-
Bank overdrafts 
-
-
-
-
Total
 180,436,976 
227,691,896
 12,080,643 
6,952,282
13.2 	 Financial assets and liabilities by categories in accordance with SLFRS 9 - Company
 
Financial assets at  
amortised cost
Financial assets at fair value 
through OCI 
 
As at 31 March
In Rs.‘000s
2023
2022
2023
2022
 Financial instruments in non-current assets/non-current liabilities 
 Non-current financial assets / liabilities
 4,367,825 
 2,995,474 
 37,158 
87,563
 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 
 - 
-
 - 
-
 Financial instruments in current assets/current liabilities 
 Trade and other receivables / payables 
 207,733 
103,914
-
-
 Amounts due from / due to related parties 
 1,177,616 
660,699
-
-
 Short term investments / borrowings 
 57,473,253 
83,972,660
-
-
 Cash in hand and at bank 
 8,232,006 
27,362,010
-
-
 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 
-
-
-
-
 Bank overdrafts 
-
-
-
-
 Total 
 71,458,433
115,094,757
 37,158
87,563

247
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
Financial assets at fair value 
through profit or loss 
Total
Financial liabilities measured 
at amortised cost/fair value
2023
2022
2023
2022
2023
2022
 580,009 
 80,610 
 63,957,051 
 48,690,489 
20,107,025 
 2,413,880 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 159,778,892 
 158,921,898 
-
-
 - 
-
 32,052,489 
30,066,952
 - 
-
 21,508,078 
 27,495,348 
 29,866,282 
 43,469,407 
 - 
-
 317,700 
 196,394 
 3,615 
 1,818 
-
4,755,518
 82,221,822 
 110,721,544 
 8,701,652 
 14,833,056 
 - 
-
 25,092,977 
 52,376,531 
-
 - 
-
-
 - 
-
 12,839,426 
 40,624,448 
-
-
 - 
-
 2,258,653 
 3,459,496 
-
-
 - 
-
 30,048,743 
 20,321,777 
 580,009 
4,836,128
 193,097,628 
 239,480,306
295,656,777
 314,112,732 
Total
Financial liabilities measured 
at amortised cost
2023
2022
2023
2022
 4,404,983 
3,083,037
18,380,148
-
 - 
-
 66,907,718 
 64,634,033
 207,733 
103,914
 631,405 
566,252
 1,177,616 
660,699
 58,244 
 20,912
 57,473,253 
 83,972,660
 1,300,000 
2,000,000
 8,232,006 
27,362,010
 -
-
 - 
-
 3,344,997 
2,562,994
 - 
-
 172,372 
2,939,311
 71,495,591
115,182,320
90,794,884
72,723,502

248 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
13.3 	 Derivative financial instruments
 
GROUP
COMPANY
Contract notional 
amount in USD ‘000s
Fair value
In Rs.‘000s
Contract notional 
amount in USD ‘000s
Fair value
In Rs.‘000s
As at 31 March 
Cash-flow hedges
2023
2022
2023
2022
2023
2022
2023
2022
Interest rate swap - Derivative asset
 100,000 
100,000
 4,215,838 
2,928,815
 100,000 
100,000
 4,215,838 
2,928,815
The management assessed that, cash and short-term deposits, trade 
receivables, trade payables, bank overdrafts and other current financial 
liabilities approximate their carrying amounts largely due to the short-
term maturities of these instruments.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to 
transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants 
at the measurement date.
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate 
the fair values:
Fair value of quoted equities, debentures and bonds is based on price 
quotations in an active market at the reporting date
Accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions
Fair value of financial instruments
Where the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded 
in the statement of financial position cannot be derived from active 
markets, their fair value is determined using valuation techniques 
including the discounted cash flow model. The inputs to these models 
are taken from observable markets where possible.
Where this is not feasible, a degree of judgement is required in 
establishing fair values. The judgements include considerations of inputs 
such as liquidity risk, credit risk and volatility. 
NOTES TO THE INCOME STATEMENT, STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE 
INCOME AND STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
14. 	
REVENUE
Accounting policy
14.1 	 Total revenue
14.1.1 Revenue from contract with customers
Revenue from contracts with customers is recognised when control of 
the goods or services is transferred to the customer at an amount that 
reflects the consideration to which the Group expects to be entitled in 
exchange for those goods or services.
The fair value of unquoted instruments, loans from banks and other 
financial liabilities, obligations under finance leases, as well as non-
current financial liabilities are estimated by discounting future cash flows 
using rates currently available for debt on similar terms, credit risk and 
remaining maturities.
Fair value of the unquoted ordinary shares has been estimated using a 
Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) model. The valuation requires management 
to make certain assumptions about the model inputs, including forecast 
cash flows, the discount rate, credit risk and volatility. The probabilities 
of the various estimates within the range can be reasonably assessed 
and are used in management’s estimate of fair value for these unquoted 
equity investments.
13.	
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RELATED POLICIES (CONTD.)
GOODS TRANSFERRED AT A POINT IN TIME
Under SLFRS 15, revenue is recognised upon satisfaction of a 
performance obligation. The revenue recognition occurs at a point in 
time when control of the asset is transferred to the customer, generally, 
on delivery of the goods. 
SERVICES TRANSFERRED OVER TIME
Under SLFRS 15, the Group determines, at contract inception, whether it 
satisfies the performance obligation over time or at a point in time. For 
each performance obligation satisfied over time, the Group recognises 
the revenue over time by measuring the progress towards complete 
satisfaction of that performance obligation. 
14.1.2 Revenue from insurance contracts
Revenue from insurance contracts comprise of gross written premiums 
net of premium ceded to reinsurers.
14.2 	 Disaggregation of revenue 
The Group presented disaggregated revenue with Group’s reportable 
segments based on timing of revenue recognition and geographical 
region in the operating segment information section.

249
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
 
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
Note
2023
2022
2023
2022
In Rs.'000s
Timing of revenue recognition
Goods transferred at a point in time
 213,110,409 
 179,095,601 
 - 
 - 
Services transferred over time
 47,576,963 
 23,753,574 
 2,543,712 
 1,875,722 
Total revenue from contracts with customers
14.1.1
 260,687,372 
 202,849,175 
 2,543,712 
 1,875,722 
Revenue from insurance contracts 
14.1.2
 15,952,535 
 15,225,571 
 - 
 - 
Total revenue
 276,639,907 
 218,074,746 
 2,543,712 
 1,875,722 
For the better understanding of the Industry segment revenue, please refer Note 8.3 - 8.5 Business Segment analysis - Disaggregation of revenue.
14.3 	 Reconciliation of revenue 
Reconciliation between Revenue from contracts with customers 
and revenue for each reportable segment has been provided in the 
operating segment information section.
14.4 	 Contract balances
Contract assets
Contract assets are the Group’s right to consideration in exchange for 
goods or services that the Group has transferred to a customer, with 
rights that are conditional on some criteria other than the passage of 
time. Upon satisfaction of the conditions, the amounts recognised as 
contract assets are reclassified to trade receivables.
Contract liabilities
Contract liabilities are the Group's obligation to transfer goods or 
services to a customer for which the Group has received consideration 
(or the amount is due) from the customer. Contract liabilities include 
long-term advances received to deliver goods and services, short-term 
advances received to render certain services as well as transaction price 
allocated to unexpired service warranties, and loyalty points not yet 
redeemed.
 
GROUP
 
Contract balances
Performance obligations satisfied
As at / for the year ended 31 March
In Rs.‘000s
Note
2023
2022
2023
2022
Contract assets
 - 
-
-
1,297
Contract liabilities
	 Other non current liabilities
40
 158,640 
 73,760 
-
20,919,960
	 Trade and other payables
41
 186,264 
 123,166 
348,091
341,266
	 Other current liabilities
43
2,016,418
 2,093,394 
3,422
3,355
2,361,322
 2,290,320 
351,513
21,265,878

250 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
14. 	
REVENUE (CONTD.) 
14.5 	 Performance obligations and significant judgements
The Group’s performance obligations and significant judgements are 
summarised below:
Transportation
This operating segment provides an array of transportation related 
services, which primarily include a marine bunkering business, shipping, 
logistics and air transportation multinationals as well as travel and airline 
services. In providing airline services, net revenue is recognised at a point 
in time upon the sale of tickets as the entity is deemed as the agent. 
Total transaction price is comprised of cost and commission which is 
equal to the total ticketing service fee.
In providing Marine Services, the principal activity of the entity is to 
supply bunker services to their customers, in exchange for a bunker 
fee. The performance obligation can be termed as bunkering services. 
Revenue is recognised at a point in time, upon supply of the bunker to 
the vessels. Transaction price shall comprise of cost and mark up which 
is equal to total bunkering fee.
Consumer Foods 
Consumer Foods segment focuses on manufacturing of a wide range 
of beverages, frozen confectionary, processed meat and dairy products. 
Revenue is recognised at the point in time when the control of the asset 
is transferred to the customer, which is generally upon delivery of the 
goods. Revenue is measured based on actual sales, and therefore the 
output method is used for revenue recognition.
Retail
The Retail segment focuses on modern organised retailing through 
a chain of supermarkets. The office automation business comprises 
of distribution of printers, copiers, smartphones and other office 
automation equipment.
Revenue is recognised upon satisfaction of a performance obligation. 
The revenue recognition occurs at a point in time when control of the 
asset is transferred to the customer, which is generally upon delivery 
of the goods. The output method will provide a faithful depiction in 
recognising revenue. 
Customers who purchase from outlets may enter the entity’s customer 
loyalty programme and earn points that are redeemable against future 
purchases of the entity’s products. The entity will allocate a portion 
of the transaction price to the loyalty programme based on relative 
standalone selling price.
Leisure 
Leisure segment comprises of city hotels, resort hotels, as well as 
destination management business.
The revenue for providing the services are usually recognised at or 
after the guests' departure, over the period of stay or at the point of 
arrival of guests. The entity identifies the services under each contract 
as one performance obligation. The revenue is accounted based on 
the output method. Since revenue will be based on the final good or 
service provided, the output method will provide a faithful depiction in 
recognising revenue. 
In providing destination management services, the entity acts as the 
principal. Customer receives and consumes the benefits of the entity's 
performance, as and when the service is performed. Therefore, revenue 
is recognised at gross over the period, based on the output method. 
The timing and the amount of cash flow will vary according to the 
agreements.
Transaction price shall comprise of supplier fee and company mark-up, 
summing up to be the Gross Service fee. The advance payments are 
recognised as a liability. Upon provision of the services, the liability is set 
off and revenue is recognised over the period.	
Property
Property segment concentrates primarily on property development, 
renting of commercial office spaces,selling condomoniums and 
management of the Group’s real estate.
At inception of the contract, the entity determines whether it satisfies 
the performance obligation over time or at a point in time. Timing and 
amount of cash flow will be determined according to the agreement.
Financial Services
Financial Services provides a complete range of financial solutions 
including commercial banking, insurance, stock broking, debt trading, 
fund management and leasing. The services under one contract can be 
identified as one performance obligation.
Entity determines at contract inception whether it satisfies the 
performance obligation over time or at a point in time. For each 
performance obligation satisfied overtime, the entity recognises the 
revenue over time by measuring the progress towards complete 
satisfaction of that performance obligation. The output method will 
provide a faithful depiction in recognising revenue. 
Others
Others represents companies in the Plantation Industry, Information 
Technology, Management and Investments companies. The main 
streams of revenue; Management fees, BPO service fees and Consultancy 
fees, are recognised over a period of time, depending on service level 
agreements. 
Some contracts include multiple deliverables. Where the contracts 
include multiple performance obligations, the transaction price will 
be allocated to each performance obligation based on the stand-
alone selling prices. Where these are not directly observable, they are 
estimated based on expected cost plus margin.
Remaining performance obligations
The Group applies the practical expedient and does not disclose the 
amount of the transaction price allocated to the remaining performance 
obligations and an explanation of when the Group expects to recognise 
that amount as revenue for the year ended 31 March 2023.

251
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
15. 	
DIVIDEND INCOME 
Accounting policy 
Dividend
Dividend income is recognised when right to receive the payment is established.
 
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
2023
2022
In Rs.'000s
Dividend income from investments in subsidiaries and equity accounted investees
 10,635,000
 8,007,649
16. 	
OTHER OPERATING INCOME AND OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES 
Accounting policy 
Gains and losses
Net gains and losses of a revenue nature arising from the disposal of 
property, plant and equipment and other non-current assets, including 
investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, are accounted 
in the income statement, after deducting from the proceeds on disposal, 
the carrying amount of such assets and the related selling expenses.
Gains and losses arising from activities incidental to the main revenue 
generating activities and those arising from a group of similar 
transactions, which are not material are aggregated, reported and 
presented on a net basis.
Any losses arising from guaranteed rentals are accounted for, in the 
year of incurring the same. A provision is recognised if the projection 
indicates a loss.
Other income and expenses
Other income and expenses are recognised on an accrual basis.
16.1 	 Other operating income
 
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
2023
2022
2023
2022
In Rs.'000s
Promotional income and commission fee
 1,969,177 
 1,432,800 
 - 
-
Net gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment
 14,230 
62,198
 - 
 2,532 
Write back of dealer deposits
 - 
 11,163 
 - 
-
Sundry income
 1,277,214 
1,108,632
 41,219 
 48,812 
 3,260,621 
 2,614,793 
 41,219 
 51,344 
16.2 	 Other operating expenses 
 
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
2023
2022
2023
2022
In Rs.'000s
Impairment of assets
 1,106,367 
4,886,733
 684,451 
 506,246 
Heat, light and power
 2,479,316 
 800,684 
 - 
 - 
Exchange loss
 2,829,548 
 5,738,298 
 - 
 - 
Other overheads
 3,410,542
1,030,293
 63,703 
 8,232 
 9,825,773 
12,456,008
 748,154 
 514,478 
During the year under review, the Group recognised Rs.422 Mn 
impairment provision on preference share investment in Saffron Aviation 
(Pvt) Ltd.
The Company recognised Rs.684 Mn impairment loss of advance 
payments done for the advanced analytics use cases.
Last year Group balance includes Rs.4.7 Bn impairment in South Asia 
Gateway Terminals (Pvt) Ltd and Rs.506 Mn impairment in Saffron 
Aviation (Pvt) Ltd as the value in use of both investments were lower 
than its carrying values.

252 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
17.	
NET FINANCE INCOME 
Accounting policy 
Finance income
Finance income comprises of interest income on funds invested 
dividend income, gains on the disposal of fair value through OCI 
financial assets, fair value gains on financial assets at fair value through 
profit or loss, gains on the remeasurement to fair value of any pre-
existing interest in an acquiree that are recognised in the income 
statement.
Interest income is recorded as it accrues using the effective interest 
rate (EIR), which is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future 
cash receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument or 
a shorter period, where appropriate, to the net carrying amount of the 
financial asset. Interest income is included in finance income in the 
income statement.
Finance costs
Finance costs comprise interest expense on borrowings, unwinding of 
the discount on provisions, losses on disposal of fair value through OCI 
financial assets, fair value losses on financial assets at fair value through 
profit or loss, impairment losses recognised on financial assets (other 
than trade receivables) that are recognised in the income statement.
Interest expense is recorded as it accrues using the effective interest 
rate (EIR), which is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future 
cash payments through the expected life of the financial instrument or 
a shorter period, where appropriate, to the net carrying amount of the 
financial liability.
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or 
production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time 
to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost 
of the respective assets. All other borrowing costs are expensed in the 
period they occur. Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs 
that the Group incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds.
 
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
Note
2023
2022
2023
2022
In Rs.'000s
Net finance income 
Finance income
Interest income
 16,859,268 
 11,754,077 
 6,868,182 
 5,570,988 
Dividend income on
	 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
 122,681 
 147,739 
 - 
 - 
	 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income
 8,418 
 5,143 
 - 
 - 
Realised gains on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
 392,743 
 361,571 
 - 
 - 
Unrealised gains on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
 170,719
 - 
 - 
 - 
Investment related direct expenses
 (113,773)
 (89,645)
 - 
 - 
Exchange gains
 9,459,720 
 18,627,294 
 9,459,720 
 18,627,294 
Total finance income
 26,899,776 
 30,806,179 
 16,327,902 
 24,198,282 
Finance cost
Interest expense on borrowings
 (13,726,751)
 (5,199,990)
(6,539,398)
 (2,966,139)
Finance charge on lease liabilities
23.1.2
 (1,836,690)
 (1,511,437)
 - 
 - 
Finance charge on convertible debentures
 (2,239,427)
-
 (2,239,427)
-
Unrealised loss on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
 - 
 (323,330)
 - 
 - 
Total finance cost
 (17,802,868)
 (7,034,757)
 (8,778,825)
 (2,966,139)
Net finance income
 9,096,908 
 23,771,422 
 7,549,077 
 21,232,143 

253
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
18.	
PROFIT BEFORE TAX 
 Accounting policy 
Expenditure recognition
Expenses are recognised in the income statement on the basis of a 
direct association between the cost incurred and the earning of specific 
items of income. All expenditure incurred in the running of the business 
and in maintaining the property, plant and equipment in a state of 
efficiency has been charged to the income statement.
For the purpose of presentation of the income statement, the “function 
of expenses” method has been adopted, on the basis that it presents 
fairly the elements of the Company’s and Group’s performance.
 
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
2023
2022
2023
2022
In Rs.'000s
Profit before tax 
Profit before tax is stated after charging all expenses including the following;
Remuneration to executive directors
 620,151 
391,034
196,093
 106,238 
Remuneration to non executive directors
 71,658 
45,795
19,725
 15,960 
Costs of defined employee benefits
 	 Defined benefit plan cost
425,375
 400,450 
 27,626 
22,766
 	 Defined contribution plan cost - EPF and ETF
 1,475,419 
1,182,147
97,851
 72,880 
Other long term employee benefits cost
 (628,652)
 183,704 
(151,006)
42,891
Staff expenses
 21,283,417 
15,568,605
924,883
 587,596 
Share based payments
 274,062 
204,618
78,989
 61,117 
Auditors’ remuneration
	 Audit
72,429
52,604
10,239
7,048
	 Non-audit
10,924
10,733
2,061
4,565
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment
 6,280,610 
 5,014,204 
 45,153 
 38,590 
Amortisation of intangible assets
 852,249 
703,906
 31,551 
 33,324 
Amortisation of right of use assets
 4,151,230 
2,841,789
 - 
 - 
Provision for impairment 
 1,106,367 
4,886,733
 684,451 
506,246
(Gain) / Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
 (14,230)
(62,198)
-
 (2,532)
Donations
 106,612 
8,511
101,377
3,386
19.	
EARNINGS PER SHARE
Accounting policy
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to 
ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number 
of ordinary shares outstanding during the year. Diluted EPS is calculated 
by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the 
parent (after adjusting for outstanding share options) by the weighted 
average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year plus 
the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued 
on conversion of all the dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary 
shares.

254 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
19.	
EARNINGS PER SHARE (CONTD.)
19.1 	 Basic earnings per share
 
GROUP
For the year ended 31 March
Note
2023
2022
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent
 18,173,868 
 20,212,968 
Weighted average number of ordinary shares
19.3
 1,384,917 
1,336,027
Basic earnings per share
 13.12 
15.13
19.2 	 Diluted earnings per share 
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent
 18,173,868 
 20,212,968 
Adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares 
19.3
 1,384,948 
1,336,427
Diluted earnings per share
 13.12 
15.12
19.3 	 Amount used as denominator 
 
GROUP
For the year ended 31 March
Number of shares 
In '000s
Note
2023
2022
Ordinary shares at the beginning of the year
 1,384,917 
 1,319,664
Effect of share options exercised 
 - 
103
Private placement of ordinary shares
 - 
16,260
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue before dilution
 1,384,917 
1,336,027
Effects of dilution from:
	 Share option scheme
31
400 
	 Effect on convertible debenture 
39.1
-
-
Adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares
 1,384,948
1,336,427
20. 	
DIVIDEND PER SHARE
 
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
2023
2022
Rs
In Rs.‘000s
Rs
In Rs.‘000s
Equity dividend on ordinary shares declared and paid during the year
Final dividend (Previous years’ final dividend paid in the current year)
 0.50 
 692,458 
0.50
 659,869 
Interim dividends
 1.50 
 2,077,375 
1.00
 1,352,323 
Total dividend
 2.00 
 2,769,833 
1.50
 2,012,192 
21. 	
TAXES
Accounting policy 
Current tax
Current tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are 
measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to 
the taxation authorities. The tax rates and tax laws used to compute 
the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted, at the 
reporting date in the countries where the Group operates and generates 
taxable income.
Current income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is 
recognised in equity and for items recognised in other comprehensive 
income shall be recognised in other comprehensive income and not in 
the income statement. Management periodically evaluates positions 
taken in the tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable 
tax regulations are subject to interpretation and establishes provisions 
where appropriate.
Management has used its judgment on the application of tax laws 
including transfer pricing regulations involving identification of 
associated undertakings, estimation of the respective arm’s length prices 
and selection of appropriate pricing mechanisms.
The Group has complied with the arm’s length principles relating to 
transfer pricing as prescribed in the Inland Revenue Act.

255
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is provided using the liability method on temporary 
differences at the reporting date between the tax bases of assets and 
liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary 
differences, except:
• 	 Where the deferred tax liability arising from the initial recognition of 
goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business 
combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the 
accounting profit nor the taxable profit or loss; and
•	 In respect of taxable temporary differences associated with 
investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, 
where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be 
controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not 
reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, 
and unused tax credits and tax losses carried forward, to the extent 
that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the 
deductible temporary differences and the unused tax credits and tax 
losses carried forward can be utilised except:
•	 Where the deferred income tax assets relating to the deductible 
temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or 
liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the 
time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable 
profit or loss; and 
•	 In respect of deducible temporary differences associated with 
investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, 
deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable 
that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future 
and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary 
differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each 
reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable 
that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the 
deferred tax asset to be utilised. Unrecognised deferred tax assets are 
reassessed at each reporting date and are recognised to the extent that 
it has become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred 
tax asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at tax rates that are 
expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or liability is 
settled, based on the tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or 
substantively enacted as at the reporting date.
Deferred tax relating to items recognised outside the income statement 
is recognised outside the income statement. Deferred tax items are 
recognised in correlation to the underlying transaction either in other 
comprehensive income or directly in equity.
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset, if a legally 
enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current tax 
liabilities and when the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity 
and the same taxation authority.
No deferred tax asset or liability has been recognised in the companies 
which are enjoying the Board of Investment (BOI) tax holiday period, if 
there are no qualifying assets or liabilities beyond the tax holiday period.
Sales tax
Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of sales 
tax except:
•	 Where the sales tax incurred on the purchase of an asset or service is 
not recoverable from the taxation authority, in which case the sales 
tax is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as 
part of the expense item as applicable; and
•	 Where receivables and payables are stated with the amount of sales 
tax included.
The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation 
authority is included as part of receivables or payables in the statement 
of financial position.
IFRIC interpretation 23 uncertainty over income tax treatment 
The Interpretation addresses the accounting for income taxes when 
tax treatments involve uncertainty that affects the application of LKAS 
12 Income Taxes. It does not apply to taxes or levies outside the scope 
of LKAS 12, nor does it specifically include requirements relating to 
interest and penalties associated with uncertain tax treatments. The 
Interpretation specifically addresses the following: 
• 	 Whether an entity considers uncertain tax treatments separately 
• 	 The assumptions an entity makes about the examination of tax 
treatments by taxation authorities 
• 	 How an entity determines taxable profit (tax loss), tax bases, unused tax 
losses, unused tax credits and tax rates 
• 	 How an entity considers changes in facts and circumstances 
The Group determines whether to consider each uncertain tax 
treatment separately or together with one or more other uncertain tax 
treatments and uses the approach that better predicts the resolution of 
the uncertainty.
The Group applies significant judgement in identifying uncertainties 
over income tax treatments. Since the Group operates in a complex 
environment, it assessed whether the Interpretation had an impact on its 
consolidated financial statements.
Upon adoption of the Interpretation, the Group considered whether it 
has any uncertain tax positions and Group determined that it is probable 
that its tax treatments (including those for the subsidiaries) will be 
accepted by the taxation authorities. The Interpretation did not have an 
impact on the consolidated financial statements of the Group. 

256 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Temporary differences associated with the undistributed reserves in 
subsidiaries for which a deferred tax liability has not been recognised, 
amounts to Rs.1,985 Mn (2022 - Rs.2,846 Mn). The deferred tax effect on 
undistributed reserves of subsidiaries has not been recognised since 
the parent can control the timing of the reversal of these temporary 
differences.
21. 	
TAXES (CONTD.)
21.1 	 Tax expense 
 
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
Note
2023
2022
2023
2022
In Rs.'000s
Income statement
Current tax charge
21.5
 5,251,698 
 3,252,722 
2,057,640
1,060,725
	 (Over)/Under provision of current tax of previous years
 (646,128)
 (45,384)
-
 - 
	 Irrecoverable economic service charge 
21.7
 8,925 
 245,821 
-
 - 
Deferred tax charge/(reversal)
	 Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences
21.2
 (921,202)
 3,428,427 
-
 2,841,984 
21.6
 3,693,293 
 6,881,586 
2,057,640
3,902,709
Other comprehensive income
Deferred tax charge/(reversal)
	 Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences
21.2 
 7,688,637 
 806,930 
-
 - 
 7,688,637 
 806,930 
-
 - 
21.2 	 Deferred tax expense
 
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
2023
2022
2023
2022
In Rs.'000s
Income statement
Deferred tax expense arising from;
	 Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes
 883,146 
 330,241 
3,487
 2,027 
	 Revaluation of investment property to fair value
 960,902 
 580,930 
-
 - 
	 Retirement benefit obligations
 (109,207)
 (106,150)
8,170
 (74,337)
	 Benefit arising from tax losses
 (2,822,192)
 (578,916)
294,713
 (295,313)
	 Unrealised capital gains/others
 166,149 
 3,202,322 
(306,370)
 3,209,607 
Deferred tax charged/(reversal) directly to Income Statement
 (921,202)
 3,428,427 
-
 2,841,984 
Other comprehensive income
Deferred tax expense arising from;
	 Actuarial losses on defined benefit obligations
 37,850 
 7,723 
-
 - 
	 Revaluation of land and building to fair value
 7,650,787 
 799,207 
-
 - 
Deferred tax charged/(reversal) directly to OCI
 7,688,637
 806,930 
-
 - 
Surcharge tax 
Surcharge Tax Act No. 14 of 2022 was enacted on 8 April 2022 and is 
applicable to the John Keells Group as the collective taxable income of 
companies belonging to the Group, calculated in accordance with the 
provisions of the Inland Revenue Act No. 24 of 2017, exceeds  
Rs.2,000 Mn, for the year of assessment 2020/2021. The liability is 
computed at the rate of 25 percent on the taxable income of the 
individual Group companies, net of dividends from subsidiaries and 
deemed to be an expenditure in the financial statements in the year of 
assessment which commenced on 1 April 2020.

257
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
21.3 	 Income tax liabilities
 
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2023
2022
2023
2022
In Rs.'000s
At the beginning of the year
 2,618,554 
 1,988,170 
 880,969
 717,029 
Charge for the year
 2,475,665 
 3,150,020 
2,057,640
1,056,425
Payments and set off against refunds
 (3,295,364)
 (2,519,636)
(2,050,395)
(892,485)
At the end of the year
 1,798,855 
 2,618,554 
888,214
 880,969 
21.4 	 Deferred tax 
 
GROUP
COMPANY
 ASSETS
LIABILITIES
LIABILITIES
As at 31 March
In Rs.‘000s
2023
2022
2023
2022
2023
2022
At the beginning of the year
 1,554,438  1,089,027  12,016,404  7,720,111  2,841,984
 - 
Charge and release
 887,641 
 65,373  7,671,165  4,294,991 
-
 2,841,984 
Transfers / exchange differences 
 140,196 
 400,038 
 - 
 1,302 
-
-
At the end of the year
 2,582,275  1,554,438  19,687,569  12,016,404  2,841,984
 2,841,984 
The closing deferred tax asset and liability balances relate to the following;
Revaluation of land and building to fair value
 (495,207)
 (69,843)  14,007,848  5,020,124 
-
 - 
Revaluation of investment property to fair value
 - 
 (3,670)  3,930,908  1,386,639 
-
 - 
Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes
 96,240 
118,501
 3,955,708  2,876,236 
5,514
 2,027 
Employee benefit liability
 127,925 
83,723
 (368,839)
 (650,536)
(66,167)
 (74,337)
Losses available for offset against future taxable income
 2,601,568  1,371,347  (1,804,729)
 (670,011)
-
 (295,313)
Net gain/loss on fair value through OCI
 - 
-
 (33,327)
 - 
-
-
Unrealised capital gains/others
 251,749 
54,380
 -  4,053,952 
2,902,637
 3,209,607 
 2,582,275  1,554,438  19,687,569  12,016,404  2,841,984  2,841,984 
A deferred tax liability for the Group amounting to Rs.955 Mn (2022 
– Rs.955 Mn) has been recognised based on the impact of declared 
dividends of subsidiaries and the Group’s portion of distributable 
reserves of equity accounted investees.
Accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions 
The Group is subject to income tax and other taxes including VAT. 
Significant judgement was required to determine the total provision for 
current, deferred and other taxes due to uncertainties that exist with 
respect to the interpretation of the applicability of tax law at the time of 
the preparation of these financial statements.
Uncertainties also exist with respect to the interpretation of complex tax 
regulations and the amount and timing of future taxable income. 
Given the wide range of business relationships and the long-term 
nature and complexity of existing contractual agreements, differences 
arising between the actual results and the assumptions made, or future 
changes to such assumptions, could necessitate future adjustments to 
tax income and expense already recorded. Where the final tax outcome 
of such matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, 
such differences will impact the income and deferred tax amounts in the 
period in which the determination is made.
The Group has contingent tax liability amounting to Rs.2,353 Mn 
(2022 - Rs.1,588 Mn). These have been arrived at after discussing with 
independent legal and tax experts and based on information available. 
All assumptions are revisited as of the reporting date.	
Total Surcharge Tax of Rs.1,749 Mn and Rs.666 Mn has been recognised 
for the Group and the Company respectively as an opening adjustment 
to the 1 April 2022 retained earnings in the statement of Changes in 
Equity as per the Addendum to the Statement of Alternative Treatment 
(SoAT) issued by The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka. 
South Asia Gateway Terminals (Pvt) Ltd (SAGT) and Nations Trust Bank 
PLC (NTB) were liable to pay Surcharge Tax on the respective individual 
entity level. The Group share of total Surcharge Tax of Rs.1,276 Mn 
has been included in Surcharge Tax charge recognised in the Group 
Statement of Changes in Equity as an adjustment to the 1 April 2022 
opening retained earnings. 

258 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
21. 	
TAXES (CONTD.) 
21.5	 Reconciliation between current tax charge and the accounting profit 
 
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
2023
2022
2023
2022
In Rs.'000s
Profit before tax
 22,589,417 
 27,324,493 
16,766,924
 28,284,116 
Dividend income from Group companies
 12,838,346 
 9,137,197 
-
 - 
Share of results of equity accounted investees (net of tax)
 (7,573,543)
 (1,898,298)
-
 - 
Other consolidation adjustments
 (907,462)
 (846,612)
-
 - 
Profit after adjustments
 26,946,758 
 33,716,780 
16,766,924
 28,284,116 
Exempt profits
 (8,257,531)
 (6,286,616)
(6,341,931)
 (5,498,173)
Income not liable for income tax
 (10,754,364)
 (18,757,988)
(9,483,972)
 (18,590,437)
Resident dividend
 (5,361,312)
 (675,773)
(4,730,328)
 (675,773)
Adjusted accounting profit chargeable to income taxes
 2,573,551 
 7,996,403 
(3,789,307)
 3,519,732
Disallowable expenses
 27,270,260 
 13,928,603 
9,128,503
 3,019,904 
Allowable expenses
 (24,927,414)
 (16,234,485)
(9,735,830)
 (515,449)
Utilisation of tax losses
 (6,914,133)
 (3,500,880)
(1,882,772)
-
Current year tax losses not utilised
 1,945,620 
 2,268,887 
-
-
Tax effect on investment income 
 20,218,305 
2,209,342
20,218,305
 2,209,342 
Qualifying payment deductions
 (100,187)
 (1,931)
(100,187)
 (1,330)
Taxable income
 20,066,002 
 6,665,939 
13,838,712
 8,232,198 
Income tax charged at:
	 Standard rate 
 4,652,313 
 1,475,821 
803,633
 220,934 
	 Other concessionary rates 
 599,385 
 1,776,901 
1,254,007
 839,791 
Current tax charge
 5,251,698 
 3,252,722 
2,057,640
 1,060,725 
21.6	 Reconciliation between tax expense and the product of accounting profit 
 
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
2023
2022
2023
2022
In Rs.'000s
Adjusted accounting profit chargeable to income taxes
 2,573,551
 7,996,403
(3,789,307)
 3,519,732
Tax effect on chargeable profits
2,057,362
 3,300,879 
(556,530)
 492,762 
Tax effect on non deductible expenses
 324,694 
 224,480 
65,143
77,067
Tax effect on deductions claimed
 (879,004)
 (528,582)
(38,563)
 (65,635)
Net tax effect of unrecognised deferred tax assets for the year
 (1,126,112)
2,866,687
-
 3,177,581 
Under/(over) provision for previous years
 (646,128)
 (45,384)
-
Deferred tax due to carried forward tax losses
 705,811 
 117,460 
-
 - 
Deferred tax due to tax rate change on the temporary differences of previous years
660,155
 (16,087)
-
 - 
Other income based taxes:
 	 Irrecoverable economic service charge 
 8,925 
 245,821 
-
 - 
 	 Tax effect on investment income
 2,587,590 
 220,934 
2,587,590
 220,934 
Deferred tax on affiliated companies dividend reserve
-
495,378
-
-
Tax expense
 3,693,293 
 6,881,586
2,057,640
 3,902,709 
Group tax expense is based on the taxable profit of individual companies 
within the Group. At present the tax laws of Sri Lanka do not provide for 
Group taxation.
Income tax and Deferred tax have been provided as per the new 
rates legislated as per the Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No 45 
of 2022. The deferred tax charge/(reversal) in the Income Statement 
includes Rs.660 Mn for the Group relating to the tax rate change on 
the temporary differences of previous years. The deferred tax charge in 
the Other Comprehensive Income statement includes Rs.5.1 Bn for the 
Group relating to the tax rate change on the temporary differences of 
previous years.

259
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
21.9	  Applicable rates of income tax 
The tax liability of resident companies are computed at the standard rate of 30% except for the following companies which enjoy full or partial 
exemptions and concessions.
Company / Sector
Basis
Exemptions 
or 
concessions
Period
Exemptions / concessions granted under the Inland Revenue Act
John Keells Properties Ja-Ela (Pvt) Ltd 
New undertaking engaged in construction of 
commercial buildings
Exempt
9 years from 1st April 2015
Sancity Hotels & Properties Ltd (Subsidiary of Capitol 
Hotel Holdings (Pvt) Ltd)
Construction and operation of a tourist hotel
- do -
12 years from 1st year of profit 
or 2 years from operations 
John Keells Information Technology (Pvt) Ltd
Information technology services to the local 
companies 
- do -
31 March 2023
Cinnamon Hotel Management Ltd 
Export of services 
- do -
Open ended
Cinnamon Hotel Management International Pvt Ltd
Export of services 
- do -
- do -
Walkers Tours Ltd
Export of services 
- do -
- do -
Whittall Boustead Travels Ltd
Export of services 
- do -
- do -
John Keells International (Pvt) Ltd
Export of services 
- do -
- do -
Infomate (Pvt) Ltd
- do -
- do -
- do -
John Keells Information Technology (Pvt) Ltd
- do -
- do -
- do -
Exemptions / concessions granted under the Board of Investment Law
Asian Hotels and Properties PLC
Construction and operation of office, 
apartment complex and a hotel
2% of 
turnover
15 years from 1st April 2014
John Keells Logistics (Pvt) Ltd (Sites covered by the 
BOI agreement)
Warehousing
20%
Open ended
Waterfront Properties (Pvt) Ltd
Integrated super luxury tourist  
resort
Exempt
10 years from 1st year of profit  
or 3 years from operations
 
21.7 	 Economic Service Charge (ESC)
 
GROUP
For the year ended 31 March
2023
2022
In Rs.'000s
Irrecoverable Economic Service Charge (ESC) 
 8,925 
245,821
 8,925 
 245,821
21.8	 Tax losses carried forward
 
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
2023
2022
2023
2022
In Rs.'000s
Tax losses brought forward
 16,157,602 
 11,302,534 
 1,230,471 
 1,230,471 
Adjustments on finalisation of liability
 140,433 
 189,281 
-
 - 
Tax losses arising during the year
 3,488,753 
 6,486,569 
-
 - 
Utilisation of tax losses
 (6,914,133)
 (1,820,782)
-
 - 
 12,872,655 
 16,157,602 
 1,230,471
 1,230,471 
The Group has tax losses amounting to Rs.12,873 Mn (2022 - Rs.16,158 Mn) are available to offset against future taxable profits of the companies in 
which the tax losses arose.

260 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
22.	
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 
Accounting policy 
Basis of recognition
Property, plant and equipment are recognised if it is probable that future 
economic benefits associated with the asset will flow to the Group and 
the cost of the asset can be reliably measured.
Basis of measurement
Property, plant and equipment except for land and buildings are stated 
at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment 
loss. Such cost includes the cost of replacing component parts of the 
plant and equipment and borrowing costs for long-term construction 
projects if the recognition criteria are met. When significant parts of 
plant and equipment are required to be replaced at intervals, the Group 
derecognises the replaced part, and recognises the new part with its 
own associated useful life and depreciation. Likewise, when a major 
inspection is performed, its cost is recognised in the carrying amount of 
the plant and equipment as a replacement if the recognition criteria are 
satisfied. All other repair and maintenance costs are recognised in the 
income statement as incurred.
21. 	
TAXES (CONTD.) 
21.10	 Income tax rates of off-shore subsidiaries
Country of incorporation
Company
Rate
India
John Keells Foods India (Pvt)Ltd
30.9%
Mauritius
John Keells BPO International (Pvt) Ltd
15%
John Keells BPO Holdings (Pvt) Ltd
15%
Republic of Maldives
Fantasea World Investments (Pte) Ltd
15%
Travel Club (Pte) Ltd
15%
Tranqulity (Pte) Ltd
15%
John Keells Maldivian Resorts (Pte) Ltd
15%
Mack Air Services Maldives (Pte) Ltd
15%
Singapore
John Keells Singapore (Pte) Ltd
17% (Max)
Land and buildings are measured at fair value less accumulated 
depreciation on buildings and impairment charged subsequent to the 
date of the revaluation.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for 
impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the 
carrying value may not be recoverable.
Any revaluation surplus is recognised in other comprehensive income 
and accumulated in equity under the asset revaluation reserve, except 
to the extent that it reverses a revaluation decrease of the same asset 
previously recognised in the income statement, in which case the 
increase is recognised in the income statement.  
A revaluation deficit is recognised in the income statement, except 
to the extent that it offsets an existing surplus on the same asset 
recognised in the asset revaluation reserve.

261
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
Impairment of property plant and equipment
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication 
that an asset may be impaired. If any such indication exists, or when 
annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group makes 
an estimate of the asset’s recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable 
amount is the higher of an asset’s or cash generating unit’s fair value 
less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual 
asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely 
independent of those from other assets or groups of assets. Where the 
carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset 
is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount. 
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted 
to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current 
market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to 
the asset. Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement, 
except that, impairment losses in respect of property, plant and 
equipment previously revalued are recognised against the revaluation 
reserve through the statement of other comprehensive income to the 
extent that it reverses a previous revaluation surplus.
An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is 
any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no 
longer exist or may have decreased. If such an indication exists, the 
recoverable amount is estimated. A previously recognised impairment 
loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used 
to determine the asset’s recoverable amount since the last impairment 
loss was recognised. If that is the case, the carrying amount of the asset 
is increased to its recoverable amount. That increased amount cannot 
exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of 
depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in 
prior years. Such reversal is recognised in the income statement unless 
the asset is carried at revalued amount, in which case the reversal is 
treated as a revaluation increase. After such a reversal, the depreciation 
charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate the asset’s revised 
carrying amount, less any residual value, on a systematic basis over its 
remaining useful life.
Accumulated depreciation as at the revaluation date is eliminated 
against the gross carrying amount of the asset and the net amount 
is restated to the revalued amount of the asset. Upon disposal, 
any revaluation reserve relating to the particular asset being sold 
is transferred to retained earnings. Where land and buildings are 
subsequently revalued, the entire class of such assets is revalued at fair 
value on the date of revaluation. The Group has adopted a policy of 
revaluing assets by professional valuers at least every 5 years, except for 
properties held for rental and occupied mainly by group companies, 
which are revalued by professional valuers at least every 3 years.
Derecognition
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon 
replacement, disposal or when no future economic benefits are 
expected from its use. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of 
the asset is included in the income statement in the year the asset is 
derecognised.
Depreciation
Depreciation is calculated by using a straight-line method on the cost or 
valuation of all property, plant and equipment, other than freehold land, 
in order to write off such amounts over the estimated useful economic 
life of such assets.
The estimated useful life of assets is as follows:
Assets 
Years
Buildings (other than hotels)
50
Hotel buildings
up to 70 
Plant and machinery
10 – 25
Equipment
2– 15
Furniture and fittings
2– 15
Motor vehicles
4 – 10
Returnable containers
10
Vessels 
10-25
Borrowing costs 
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction 
or production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of 
time to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the 
cost of the asset. All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period 
in which they occur. Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs 
that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds.

262 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
22. 	
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTD.)
22.1 	 Property, plant and equipment - Group 
As at 31 March
In Rs.‘000s
Land and
buildings
 Buildings on 
 leasehold 
 land 
Plant and
machinery
Equipment,
furniture
and fittings
Cost or valuation
At the beginning of the year
 65,154,160 
 44,833,870 
 18,550,843 
 18,465,197 
Additions
 111,851 
 2,008,224 
 1,132,309 
 1,898,536 
Disposals
 (63)
 (17,827)
 (248,047)
 (427,042)
Revaluations
 5,981,027 
 2,021,816 
 - 
 - 
Transfers (from revaluation adjustment)
 (308,460)
 (749,496)
 - 
 - 
Impairment/ Derecognition
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Transfers 
 81,653 
 292,950 
 366,118 
 54,262 
Exchange differences 
 - 
 1,529,638 
 68,912 
 103,470 
At the end of the year
 71,020,168 
 49,919,175 
 19,870,135 
 20,094,423 
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
At the beginning of the year 
 (1,196,874)
 (7,465,502)
 (8,532,783)
 (10,326,917)
Charge for the year
 (360,696)
 (1,907,397)
 (1,333,594)
 (1,766,006)
Disposals
 218 
 11,229 
 193,326 
 377,810 
Transfers (from revaluation adjustment)
 308,460 
 749,496 
 - 
 - 
Impairment
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Transfers 
 31 
 - 
 - 
 (31)
Exchange differences
 - 
 (362,243)
 (2,447)
 19,639 
At the end of the year
 (1,248,861)
 (8,974,417)
 (9,675,498)
 (11,695,505)
Carrying value
As at 31 March 2023
 69,771,307 
 40,944,758 
 10,194,637 
 8,398,918 
As at 31 March 2022
 63,957,286 
 37,368,368 
 10,018,060 
 8,138,280 
22.2 	 Property, plant and equipment - Company 
 As at 31 March
 In Rs.‘000s
 Plant and 
 machinery 
 Equipment, 
 furniture 
 and fittings 
 Motor 
 vehicles 
 Total 
2023
 Total 
2022
Cost
At the beginning of the year
 3,454 
 284,048 
 50,162 
 337,664 
 346,775 
Additions
 - 
 102,340 
 - 
 102,340 
 14,160 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (23,271)
At the end of the year
 3,454 
 386,388 
 50,162 
 440,004 
 337,664 
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
At the beginning of the year
 (3,197)
 (216,295)
 (34,939)
 (254,431)
 (235,974)
Charge for the year
 (3)
 (39,857)
 (5,293)
 (45,153)
 (38,590)
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 20,133 
At the end of the year
 (3,200)
 (256,152)
 (40,232)
 (299,584)
 (254,431)
Carrying value
As at 31 March 2023
 254 
 130,236 
 9,930 
 140,420 
As at 31 March 2022
257
67,753
15,233
 83,233

263
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
Motor vehicles
Freehold
Returnable
containers
Others
Vessels
Capital
work in
progress
Total 
2023
Total 
2022
 848,587 
 996,023 
 6,818,476 
 1,158,719 
 1,196,493 
 158,022,367 
 140,053,614 
 84,399 
 44,310 
 646,280 
 1,614 
 1,146,335 
 7,073,858 
 6,626,776 
 (17,456)
 (110,397)
 (193,431)
 (151,211)
 (230,813)
 (1,396,287)
 (943,987)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 8,002,843 
 4,626,359 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (1,057,956)
 (668,529)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (42,296)
 16,028 
 46,807 
 62,099 
 - 
226,998,896
227,918,813
 (255,015)
 45,693 
 - 
 (17,265)
 - 
 69 
 1,730,517 
 8,625,445 
 977,251 
 976,743 
 7,316,158 
 1,009,122 
229,110,980
400,294,155
 158,022,367 
 (573,316)
 (746,890)
 (4,292,053)
 (540,428)
 - 
 (33,674,763)
 (26,976,972)
 (157,303)
 (57,300)
 (596,562)
 (101,752)
 - 
 (6,280,610)
 (5,014,204)
 9,855 
 110,662 
 166,294 
 151,211 
 - 
 1,020,605 
 572,945 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,057,956 
 668,529 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 10,899 
 - 
 - 
 105 
 - 
 - 
 105 
 18,711 
 198 
 - 
 24,404 
 - 
 - 
 (320,449)
 (2,954,671)
 (720,566)
 (693,528)
 (4,697,812)
 (490,969)
 - 
 (38,197,156)
 (33,674,763)
 256,685 
 283,215 
 2,618,346 
 518,153 
229,110,980
362,096,999
 275,271 
 249,133 
 2,526,423 
 618,291 
 1,196,493 
 
 124,347,604 
Rs.228 Bn transferred to property plant and equipment - work 
in progress from other non-current assets which represents the 
construction work in progress of Waterfront Properties (Pvt) Ltd.
The freehold and leasehold property which are relating to Waterfront 
Properties (Pvt) Ltd are located at Glennie Street and Justice Akbar 
Mawatha, Colombo 2.
During the year 2022/2023 there was no depreciation capitalised as a 
part of the cost of other assets. 
22.3 	 Revaluation of land and buildings 
Accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions 
The Group uses the revaluation model of measurement of land and 
buildings. The Group engaged independent expert valuers to determine 
the fair value of its land and buildings. Fair value is determined by 
reference to market-based evidence of transaction prices for similar 
properties. Valuations are based on open market prices, adjusted for any 
difference in the nature, location or condition of the specific property. 
These valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances 
and for which sufficient data is available to measure fair value, 
maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the 
use of unobservable inputs. The most recent revaluation was carried out 
on 31 December 2022.
The changes in fair value are recognised in other comprehensive income 
and in the statement of equity. The valuer has used valuation techniques 
such as market values and discounted cash flow methods where there 
was lack of comparable market data available based on the nature of the 
property.

264 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
22. 	
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTD.)
22.3 	 Revaluation of land and buildings (Contd.)
Details of Group’s land, building and other properties stated at valuation are indicated below;
Property
Name of the 
Chartered 
Valuation Surveyor
Method of 
valuation
Significant unobservable inputs
Estimated price 
per perch
Estimated price per 
square foot
Estimated 
discount 
rate
Correlation 
to fair value
Land and Building 
Asian Hotels & Properties PLC
P B Kalugalagedara
DCC
Rs.18,000,000 -  
Rs.20,000,000 
Rs.3,000 - Rs.15,000
 - 
Positive
Beruwala Holiday Resorts (Pvt ) Ltd
-do-
OMV
Rs.1,000,000 -  
Rs.1,250,000 
Rs.2,000 - Rs.8,000
 - 
Positive
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC
-do-
OMV
Rs.100,000 -  
Rs.300,000 
Rs.500 - Rs.5,000
 - 
Positive
Kandy Walk Inn Ltd
S Fernando 
OMV
Rs.13,000 -  
Rs.1,350,000 
Rs.1,250 - Rs.9,000
 - 
Positive
Keells Food Products PLC
P B Kalugalagedara
DCC
Rs.700,000
Rs.400 - Rs.3,250
 - 
Positive
Keells Realtors Ltd
-do-
DCC
Rs.1,825,000
Rs.500 - Rs.2,550
 - 
Positive
Mackinnons Keells Ltd
-do-
DCC
Rs.10,000,000
Rs.1,700
 - 
Positive
Tea Smallholder Factories PLC
K T D Tissera
DCC
Rs.5,000 -  
Rs.40,000
Rs.500 - Rs.3,000
-
Positive
Trinco Holiday Resort (Pvt) Ltd
P B Kalugalagedara
OMV
Rs.400,000
Rs.1,000 - Rs.7,250
-
Positive
Union Assurance PLC
-do-
DCC
Rs.9,000,000 - 
Rs.19,750,000
Rs.600 - Rs.7,500
 - 
Positive
Vauxhall Land Developments  
(Pvt) Ltd
-do-
OMV
Rs.18,000,000
 - 
 - 
Positive
Buildings on leasehold land
Ceylon Holiday Resorts Ltd
P B Kalugalagedara
DCC
-
Rs.9,000 - Rs.17,000
 - 
Positive
Keells Food Products PLC
-do-
OMV
-
Rs.150 - Rs.2,000
 - 
Positive
Habarana Lodge Ltd
S Fernando 
DCC
-
Rs.1,000 - Rs.11,000
 - 
Positive
Habarana Walk Inn Ltd
-do-
DCC
-
Rs.2,300 -  
Rs.9,250
 - 
Positive
Hikkaduwa Holiday Resort (Pvt) Ltd
P B Kalugalagedara
DCC
-
Rs.3,000 - Rs.8,500
 - 
Positive
Jaykay Marketing Service (Pvt) Ltd
-do-
IM
-
 - 
6%
Negative
John Keells Warehousing (Pvt) Ltd
K T D Tissera
IM
-
Rs.800 - Rs.4,000
 - 
Positive
Rajawella Holdings Ltd
P B Kalugalagedara
DCC
-
Rs.2,000 - Rs.9,500 
 - 
Positive
Trans Asia Hotels PLC
-do-
DCC
-
Rs.450 - Rs.9,000
 - 
Positive
Yala Village (Pvt ) Ltd
-do-
DCC
-
Rs.2,500 - Rs.9,000
 - 
Positive
Effective date of valuation was 31 December 2022.

265
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
Summary description of valuation methodologies;
Open market value method (OMV)
Open market value method uses prices and other relevant information 
generated by market transactions involving identical or comparable 
assets, liabilities or a group of assets and liabilities, such as a business.
Direct capital comparison method (DCC)
This method may be adopted when the rental value is not available 
from the property concerned, but there are evidences of sale price of 
properties as a whole. In such cases, the capitalised value of the property 
is fixed by direct comparison with capitalised value of similar property in 
the locality.
Contractors method (CM)
The replacement cost (contractors) method is used to value properties 
which do not generally exchange on the open market and for which 
comparable evidence therefore does not exist. The valuations are based 
on two components: the depreciated cost of the building element and 
the market value of the land. Current building costs and often the land 
price will be established by comparison.
Investment method (IM)
The investment method is used to value properties which are let to 
produce an income for the investor. Conventionally, investment value 
is a product of rent and yield. Each of these elements is derived using 
comparison techniques.
22.4	
The carrying amount of revalued land and buildings if they were carried at cost less depreciation and impairment, would be as follows; 
 
GROUP
As at 31 March
2023
2022
In Rs.'000s
Cost
50,195,043
48,109,810
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
(6,303,879)
(5,472,601)
Carrying value
43,891,164
42,637,209
Group land and buildings with a carrying value of Rs.4,090 Mn  
(2022 - Rs.4,098 Mn) have been pledged as security for term loans 
obtained, details of which are disclosed in Note 37.2.
Group property, plant and equipment with a cost of Rs.12,818 Mn  
(2022 - Rs.9,100 Mn) have been fully depreciated and continue to be in 
use by the Group. The cost of fully depreciated assets continued to be in 
used by the Company Rs.684 Mn (2022 - Rs.650 Mn).
The amount of borrowing costs capitalised during the year ended 31 
March 2023 was Rs.8.1 Bn (2022 - Rs.122 Mn) by the Group.	
23. 	
RIGHT OF USE ASSETS AND LEASE LIABILITIES 
Accounting Policy
Right of use assets
The Group recognises right of use assets when the underlying asset 
is available for use. Right of use assets are measured at cost, less any 
accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, and adjusted for any 
remeasurement of lease liabilities. The cost of right of use assets includes 
the amount of lease liabilities recognised, initial direct costs incurred, 
and lease payments made at or before the commencement date less 
any lease incentives received. Unless the Group is reasonably certain to 
obtain ownership of the leased asset at the end of the lease term, the 
recognised right of use assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis 
over the shorter of its estimated useful life or the lease term. Right of use 
assets are subject to impairment.
Lease liabilities
At the commencement date of the lease, the Group recognises lease 
liabilities measured at the present value of lease payments to be 
made over the lease term. In calculating the present value of lease 
payments, the Group uses the incremental borrowing rate at the lease 
commencement date if the interest rate implicit in the lease is not 
readily determinable. After the commencement date, the amount 
of lease liabilities is increased to reflect the accretion of interest and 
reduced for the lease payments made. In addition, the carrying amount 
of lease liabilities is remeasured if there is a modification, a change in 
the lease term, a change in the in-substance fixed lease payments or a 
change in the assessment to purchase the underlying asset.
The Group uses 6 months AWPLR based plus margin when calculating 
the incremental borrowing rate which reflects the average rate of 
borrowings in the Group. Quarterly calculated incremental borrowing 
rates were used to discount new leases obtained during the year.
Short-term leases and leases of low-value assets
The Group applies the short-term lease recognition exemption to leases 
that have a lease term of 12 months or less from the commencement 
date. It also applies the lease of low-value assets recognition exemption 
to leases of office equipment that are considered of low value. Lease 
payments on short-term leases and leases of low-value assets are 
recognised as expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.

266 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
23. 	
RIGHT OF USE ASSETS AND LEASE LIABILITIES (CONTD.)
23.1	 Amounts recognised in the statement of financial position and income statement
Set out below, are the carrying amounts of the Group's right of use assets and the movements for the year ended 31 March 2023.
23.1.1 Right of use assets
 
GROUP
Lease hold
properties
Motor 
Vehicles
Total
2023
Total
2022
In Rs.'000s
At the beginning of the year 
53,466,210
15,364
 53,481,574 
 40,616,850 
Additions
1,432,127 
14,041
 1,446,168 
 1,974,156 
Disposals
(55,851)
(2,070)
 (57,921)
 (140,905)
Amortisation expense
(4,142,026)
(9,204)
 (4,151,230)
 (2,841,789)
Exchange differences
3,466,355
-
 3,466,355 
 13,873,262 
At the end of the year 
54,166,815
18,131
 54,184,946 
 53,481,574 
23.1.2 Lease liabilities
Set out below are the carrying amounts of lease liabilities and the movements for the period ended 31 March 2023. 
 
GROUP
In Rs.'000s
2023
2022
At the beginning of the year 
 33,526,448 
 25,707,265 
Additions
 1,446,167 
 1,927,327 
Transfers
 (119,811)
 (98,571)
Finance charge on lease liabilities
 1,836,690 
 1,511,437 
Disposals
 (7,493)
 (140,905)
Payments
 (4,308,342)
 (3,140,184)
Exchange differences
 1,937,483 
 7,760,079 
At the end of the year 
 34,311,142 
 33,526,448 
Current
 2,258,653 
 3,459,496 
Non-current
 32,052,489 
 30,066,952 
Total lease liabilities as at 31 March
 34,311,142 
 33,526,448 
Following are the amounts recognised in income statement for the year ended 31 March
Amortisation of right-of-use assets 
 4,151,230 
 2,841,789 
Interest expense on lease liabilities 
 1,836,690 
 1,511,437 
Total amount recognised in income statement
 5,987,920 
 4,353,226 
Expenses relating to short term leases and leases of low value assets amounting to Rs.573 Mn (2022 - Rs.548 Mn) has recognised in profit or loss.

267
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
24. 	
INVESTMENT PROPERTIES
Accounting policy
Investment properties are measured initially at cost, including 
transaction costs. The carrying value of an investment property includes 
the cost of replacing part of an existing investment property, at the time 
that cost is incurred if the recognition criteria are met and excludes the 
costs of day to- day servicing of the investment property. Subsequent 
to initial recognition, the investment properties are stated at fair values, 
which reflect market conditions at the reporting date.
Gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are included in the 
income statement in the year in which they arise. Fair values are 
revaluated at least every 3 years by an accredited external, independent 
valuer. The most recent revaluation was carried out on 31 December 
2022.
Investment properties are derecognised when disposed, or permanently 
withdrawn from use because no future economic benefits are expected. 
Any gains or losses on retirement or disposal are recognised in the 
income statement in the year of retirement or disposal.
Transfers are made to or from investment property only when there 
is a change in use for a transfer from investment property to owner 
occupied property or inventory (WIP), the deemed cost for subsequent 
accounting is the fair value at the date of change in use. If owner 
occupied property becomes an investment property or inventory (WIP), 
the Group accounts for such property in accordance with the policy 
stated under property, plant and equipment up to the date of change 
in use. Where Group companies occupy a significant portion of the 
investment property of a subsidiary, such investment properties are 
treated as property, plant and equipment in the consolidated financial 
statements, and accounted for using accounting policy for property, 
plant and equipment.
 
GROUP
As at 31 March
In Rs.‘000s
2023
2022
Carrying value 
At the beginning of the year
30,607,550
 14,867,586 
Additions
-
 386,987 
Transfers
307,559
 22,849,369 
Net gain / (loss) from fair value remeasurement
878,538
 (4,084,755)
Disposals
-
 (1,137,119)
Exchange differences
1,235,738
(2,274,518)
At the end of the year
33,029,385
 30,607,550 
Freehold property
32,121,651
 30,024,752 
Leasehold property
907,734
 582,798 
33,029,385
 30,607,550 
Following are the amounts recognised in income statement for the year ended 31 March
Rental income earned
472,387
416,442
Direct operating expenses generating rental income 
154,626
 144,727 
Direct operating expenses that did not generate rental income
-
-
Accounting judgments, estimates and assumptions 
Fair value of the investment property is ascertained by independent 
valuations carried out by Chartered valuation surveyors, who have 
recent experience in valuing properties in similar locations and category. 
Investment property is appraised in accordance with LKAS 40, SLFRS 13 
and the 8th edition of International Valuation Standards published by the 
International Valuation Standards Committee (IVSC) by the independent 
valuers. In determining the fair value, the current condition of the 
properties, future usability and associated re-development requirements 
have been considered. Also, the valuers have made reference to market 
evidence of transaction prices for similar properties, with appropriate 
adjustments for size and location. The appraised fair values are rounded 
within the range of values.
The changes in fair value are recognised in the Income Statement. 
The determined fair values of investment properties, using investment 
method, are most sensitive to the estimated yield as well as the long 
term occupancy rate.

268 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
24. 	
INVESTMENT PROPERTY (CONTD.)
Description of valuation techniques used and key inputs to valuation of investment properties: 
 Property
Name of the 
Chartered 
Valuation Surveyor
Method of 
valuation*
Significant unobservable inputs
Estimated price 
per perch
Estimated 
price per 
square foot
Estimated 
discount 
rate
Correlation 
to fair value
Freehold property
Ahungalla Holiday Resort Ltd
S Fernando 
DCC
Rs.275,000 - 
Rs.440,000
-
-
Positive 
Asian Hotels and Properties PLC
P B Kalugalagedara
IM
 - 
 - 
6%
Negative 
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC
-do-
OMV
Rs.1,800,000
Rs.2,000
 - 
Positive 
Facets (Pvt) Ltd
S Fernando 
DCC
Rs.525,000
 - 
 - 
Positive 
Glennie Properties (Pvt) Ltd
P B Kalugalagedara
OMV
Rs.16,000,000
 - 
-
Positive 
John Keells Properties Ja-Ela (Pvt) Ltd 
-do-
DCC
Rs.1,250,000
Rs.4,750
 - 
Positive 
John Keells PLC
-do-
OMV
Rs.800,000
 - 
 - 
Positive 
J K Thudella Properties (Pvt) Ltd
P P T Mohideen
OMV
Rs.300,000
 - 
-
Positive 
Keells Realtors Ltd
P B Kalugalagedara
DCC
Rs.1,600,000 -  
Rs.2,500,000
Rs.900 
 - 
Positive 
Resort Hotels Ltd
S Fernando
DCC
Rs.125,000 -
Rs.285,000
 - 
-
Positive 
Trinco Walk Inn Ltd
-do-
DCC
Rs.150,000 -
Rs.385,000
 - 
-
Positive 
Waterfront Properties (Pvt) Ltd
P B Kalugalagedara
IM
-
-
6%
Negative
Whittall Boustead (Pvt) Ltd 
-do-
DCC
Rs.2,750,000
Rs.500 - 
Rs.2,000 
-
Positive 
Wirawila Walk Inn Ltd
S Fernando 
DCC
Rs.25,000
 - 
-
Positive 
Vauxhall Land Developments (Pvt) Ltd
P B Kalugalagedara
OMV
Rs.18,000,000
 - 
-
Positive 
Leasehold property
JayKay Marketing Services (Pvt) Ltd
P B Kalugalagedara
IM
Rs.225,000 - 
Rs.300,000
-
6%
Negative
Tea Smallholder Factories PLC
-do-
DCC
Rs.2,700,000
Rs.1,150
-
Positive 
* Summary of valuation methodologies can be found in property plant and equipment Note 22.3. 
The level at which fair value measurement is categorised can be found in fair value measurement and related fair value disclosures Note 12.1.

269
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
25.	
INTANGIBLE ASSETS 
Accounting policy 
Basis of recognition
An Intangible asset is recognised if it is probable that future economic 
benefits associated with the asset will flow to the Group and the cost of 
the asset can be reliably measured.
Basis of measurement 
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition 
at cost. The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination 
is the fair value as at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less any 
accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Internally generated intangible assets, excluding capitalised development 
costs, are not capitalised, and expenditure is charged to income statement 
in the year in which the expenditure is incurred.
Useful economic lives, amortisation and impairment
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed as either finite or 
indefinite lives. Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over the 
useful economic life and assessed for impairment whenever there is an 
indication that the intangible asset may be impaired.
The amortisation period and the amortisation method for an intangible 
asset with a finite useful life is reviewed at least at each financial year-
end and treated as accounting estimates. The amortisation is calculated 
by using straight-line method on the cost of all the intangible assets 
and the amortisation expense on intangible assets with finite lives is 
recognised in the income statement.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives and goodwill are not 
amortised but tested for impairment annually, or more frequently 
when an indication of impairment exists either individually or at the 
cash-generating unit level. The useful life of an intangible asset with an 
indefinite life is reviewed annually to determine whether indefinite life 
assessment continues to be supportable. If not, the change in the useful 
life assessment from indefinite to finite is made on a prospective basis.
Research and development costs
Research costs are expensed as incurred. An intangible asset arising from 
development expenditure on an individual project is recognised as an 
intangible asset, when the Group can demonstrate:
•	 The technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that it 
will be available for use or sale,
•	 Its intention to complete and its ability to use or sell the assets,
•	 how the assets will generate future economic benefits,
•	 the availability of resources to complete the assets,
•	 the ability to measure reliably the expenditure during development.
Following initial recognition of the development expenditure of an asset, 
the cost model is applied requiring the asset to be carried at cost less 
any accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Amortisation of the asset begins when development is complete and 
the asset is available for use. It is amortised over the period of expected 
future benefit from the use or expected future sales from the related 
project. During the period of development, the asset is tested for 
impairment annually. 
Contractual relationships
Contractual relationships are rights which provide access to distribution 
networks. Contractual relationships are initially recognised at cost and 
amortised over the contract period.
A summary of the policies applied to the Group’s intangible assets is as 
follows.
Intangible assets
Useful life
Type
Impairment testing
Purchased software
5 - 10
Acquired
When indicators of impairment exists. The amortisation method is reviewed at each 
financial year end.
Software license
5
Contractual 
relationships
5 - 10
Developed software
5 - 10
Internally generated
Annually for assets not yet in use and more frequently when indicators of 
impairment arise. For assets in use, when indicators of impairment arise. The 
amortisation method is reviewed at each financial year end.
Gains or losses arising from derecognition of an intangible asset are measured as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying 
amount of the asset and are recognised in the income statement when the asset is derecognised.

270 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
25.	
INTANGIBLE ASSETS (CONTD.)
25.1	  Intangible assets
 
Software
As at 31 March
In Rs.‘000s
Developed 
Purchased
Licenses
WIP
Cost/carrying value
At the beginning of the year
 2,780,878 
 1,182,057 
 2,056,967 
 50 
Additions
 976,719 
 80,199 
 205,403 
 33,469 
Transfers
 9,568 
 119 
 (42,295)
 (9,568)
Disposal
 - 
 (479)
 (516)
 - 
Impairment
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
At the end of the year
 3,767,165 
 1,261,896 
 2,219,559 
 23,951 
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
At the beginning of the year
 (668,431)
 (506,374)
 (1,089,532)
 - 
Amortisation 
 (308,781)
 (129,445)
 (228,807)
 - 
Transfers
 - 
 - 
 2,820 
 - 
Disposal
 - 
 202 
 36 
 - 
At the end of the year
 (977,212)
 (635,617)
 (1,315,483)
 - 
Carrying value
As at 31 March 2023
 2,789,953 
 626,279 
 904,076 
 23,951 
As at 31 March 2022
 2,112,447 
 675,683 
 967,435 
 50 
Group Intangible assets with a cost of Rs.223 Mn (2022- Rs.157 Mn) have been fully amortised and continue to be in use by the Group.
25.2	 Intangible assets - Goodwill
 
GROUP
Net carrying value
As at 31 March
In Rs.‘000s
2023
2022
Goodwill acquired through business combinations have been allocated to following cash generating units (CGU's) for 
impairment testing,
Cinnamon Hotels and Resorts
 166,248 
 166,248 
Consumer Foods
 299,293 
 299,293 
Financial Services
 265,360 
 265,360 
 730,901 
 730,901 
The recoverable amounts of all CGUs have been determined based on the fair value, less cost to sell or the value in use (VIU) calculation.

271
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
GROUP
COMPANY
Goodwill
Other
Software Licenses
2023
Total
2022
Total 
2023
Total
2022
Total 
 730,901 
 1,267,767 
8,018,620
6,771,743
 681,806 
 651,641 
 - 
 - 
 1,295,790 
 1,360,177 
 - 
 30,165 
 - 
 - 
 (42,176)
 225,110 
 - 
-
 - 
 (10,000)
 (10,995)
 (330,715)
 - 
-
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (7,695)
 - 
-
 730,901 
 1,257,767 
9,261,239
8,018,620
 681,806 
 681,806 
 - 
 (354,945)
(2,619,282)
(1,918,765)
 (587,443)
 (554,119)
 - 
 (185,216)
 (852,249)
 (703,906)
 (31,551)
 (33,324)
 - 
 - 
 2,820 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 238 
 3,389 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (540,161)
 (3,468,473)
(2,619,282)
 (618,994)
 (587,443)
 730,901 
 717,606 
 5,792,766 
 62,812 
 730,901 
 912,822 
 5,399,338 
 94,363 
Accounting judgments, estimates and assumptions 
Impairment of goodwill
Impairment exists when the carrying value of an asset or cash 
generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher 
of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use (VIU). The fair value 
less costs to sell calculation is based on available data from an active 
market, in an arm’s length transaction, of similar assets or observable 
market prices less incremental costs for disposing of the asset. The value 
in use calculation is based on a discounted cash flow model. The cash 
flows are derived from the budget for the next five years and do not 
include restructuring activities that the Group is not yet committed to or 
significant future investments that will enhance the asset’s performance 
of the cash generating unit being tested. The recoverable amount is 
most sensitive to the discount rate used for the discounted cash flow 
model as well as the expected future cash inflows and the growth rate 
used for extrapolation purposes. 
The key assumptions used to determine the recoverable amount for the 
different cash generating units, are as follows; 
Gross margins
The basis used to determine the value assigned to the budgeted 
gross margins is the gross margins achieved in the year preceding the 
budgeted year adjusted for projected market conditions.
Discount rates
The discount rate used is the risk free rate, adjusted by the addition of an 
appropriate risk premium.
Inflation
The basis used to determine the value assigned to the budgeted cost 
inflation, is the inflation rate, based on projected economic conditions.
Volume growth
Volume growth has been budgeted on a reasonable and realistic basis 
by taking into account the industry growth rates of one to four years 
immediately subsequent to the budgeted year. Cash flows beyond the 
five year period are extrapolated using 0% growth rate.

272 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
26.	
INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES 
Accounting policy 
Investment in subsidiaries is initially recognised at cost in the financial statements of the Company. Any transaction cost relating to acquisition of 
investment in subsidiaries is immediately recognised in the income statement. After the initial recognition, Investments in subsidiaries are carried at 
cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
26.1 	 Carrying value
 
COMPANY
As at 31 March
  
2023
2022
In Rs.'000s
Quoted
26.2
 20,299,498 
 20,256,309 
Unquoted
26.3
 177,775,113 
 96,710,286 
 198,074,611
 116,966,595
26.2 	 Group quoted investments
 
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
Number of
shares
Effective
 holding %
Number of
shares
Effective
 holding %
2023
In Rs.‘000s
2022
In Rs.‘000s
Cost
Asian Hotels and Properties PLC
347,824,190
78.56%
347,824,190
78.56%
 5,377,344 
 5,378,525 
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC
773,212,040
81.36%
671,558,120
70.66%
 1,709,632 
 1,682,346 
John Keells Hotels PLC
1,169,598,478
80.32%
1,169,598,478
80.32%
 7,102,140 
 7,102,140 
John Keells PLC
52,834,784
86.90%
52,834,784
86.90%
 491,354 
 488,005 
Keells Food Products PLC
22,937,250
88.63%
20,364,054
79.86%
 1,241,989 
 1,241,876 
Tea Smallholder Factories PLC
11,286,000
37.62%
11,286,000
37.62%
 66,809 
 66,809 
Trans Asia Hotels PLC
184,107,284
82.74%
97,284,256
48.64%
 1,619,225 
 1,617,229 
Union Assurance PLC
530,357,150
90.00%
530,357,150
90.00%
 2,691,005 
 2,679,379 
 20,299,498 
 20,256,309 
 
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2023
2022
2023
2022
In Rs.'000s
Market Value
Asian Hotels and Properties PLC
 15,304,264 
 12,869,495 
 15,304,264 
 12,869,495 
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC
 30,929,818 
 30,079,248 
 26,862,325 
 26,123,611 
John Keells Hotels PLC
 22,105,411 
 13,684,302 
 22,105,411 
 13,684,302 
John Keells PLC
 3,635,033 
 3,619,183 
 3,635,033 
 3,619,183 
Keells Food Products PLC
 3,669,960 
 3,813,318 
 3,258,249 
 3,385,524 
Tea Smallholder Factories PLC
 496,584 
 305,851 
 496,584 
 305,851 
Trans Asia Hotels PLC
 8,321,649 
 8,873,971 
 4,397,248 
 4,689,101 
Union Assurance PLC
 17,501,786 
 16,083,081 
 17,501,786 
 16,083,081 
 101,964,505 
 89,328,449 
 93,560,900 
 80,760,148 

273
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
26.3 	 Group unquoted investments
 
 GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2023
2023
2022
Number of
shares
Effective
 holding %
Number of
shares
Effective
 holding %
Cost
In Rs.‘000s
Cost
In Rs.‘000s
Ahungalla Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
 13,275,000 
 80.32 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Beruwala Holiday Resorts (Pvt ) Ltd
 219,725,653 
 79.78 
 - 
 - 
 3,586 
 3,586 
British Overseas (Pvt) Ltd
 61 
 61.00 
 61 
 61.00 
 - 
 - 
Ceylon Holidays Resorts Ltd
 18,260,784 
 79.60 
 - 
 - 
 3,893 
 3,887 
Cinnamon Hotel Management Ltd
 1,000,000 
 100.00 
 1,000,000 
 100.00 
 500,486 
 455,075 
Cinnamon Hotel Management International (Pvt) Ltd
 50,000 
 100.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Cinnamon Holiday (Pvt) Ltd
 20,000 
 80.32 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Facets (Pvt) Ltd
 15,000 
 100.00 
 15,000 
 100.00 
 - 
 - 
Fantasea World Investments (Pte) Ltd
 7,299 
 80.32 
 - 
 - 
 4,908 
 4,738 
Glennie Properties (Pvt) Ltd
 16,386,140 
 100.00 
 16,386,140 
 100.00 
 163,861 
 163,861 
Habarana Lodge Ltd
 12,981,548 
 78.99 
 - 
 - 
 4,312 
 4,096 
Habarana Walk Inn Ltd
 4,321,381 
 79.34 
 - 
 - 
 2,719 
 2,719 
Hikkaduwa Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
 107,596,700 
 79.60 
 - 
 - 
 2,874 
 2,621 
Infomate (Pvt) Ltd
 2,000,000 
 100.00 
 2,000,000 
 100.00 
 43,773 
 41,395 
International Tourists and Hoteliers Ltd
 38,490,901 
 79.78 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
J K Land (Pvt) Ltd
 2,302,760,246 
 100.00  2,302,760,246 
 100.00 
 24,964,639 
 24,964,639 
J K Packaging (Pvt) Ltd
 1,450,000 
 100.00 
 1,450,000 
 100.00 
 - 
 - 
J K Thudella Properties (Pvt) Ltd 
 45,346,760 
 100.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
JayKay Marketing Services (Pvt) Ltd
 202,239,025 
 81.36 
 - 
 - 
 258,114 
 226,222 
John Keells BPO Holdings (Pvt) Ltd
 19,000,000 
 100.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
John Keells BPO International (Pvt) Ltd
 1,500,000,000 
 100.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
John Keells BPO Solutions Lanka (Pvt) Ltd
 32,843,578 
 100.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
John Keells Information Technology (Pvt) Ltd 
9,650,000
 100.00 
 9,650,000 
 100.00 
 124,665 
 123,346 
John Keells Foods India (Pvt) Ltd
 8,999,990 
 88.63 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
John Keells International (Pvt) Ltd
 199,160,000 
 100.00 
 199,160,000 
 100.00 
 676,747 
 673,526 
John Keells Logistics (Pvt) Ltd
 19,999,998 
 100.00 
 19,999,998 
 100.00 
 232,048 
 229,930 
John Keells Maldivian Resorts (Pte) Ltd
 49,044,238 
 80.32 
 - 
 - 
 18,299 
 18,152 
John Keells Office Automation (Pvt) Ltd
 500,000 
 100.00 
 500,000 
 100.00 
 74,813 
 71,170 
John Keells Properties (Pvt) Ltd
 101,804 
 100.00 
 101,804 
 100.00 
 - 
 - 
John Keells Properties Ja-Ela (Pvt) Ltd
 95,436,000 
 100.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
John Keells Residential Properties (Pvt) Ltd
 2,081,698 
 100.00 
 2,081,698 
 100.00 
 20,817 
 20,817 
John Keells Singapore (Pte) Ltd
 160,000 
 80.00 
 160,000 
 80.00 
 4,209 
 4,209 
John Keells Stock Brokers (Pvt) Ltd
 1,500,000 
 90.04 
 360,000 
 24.00 
 90,902 
 85,187 
John Keells Teas (Pvt) Ltd
 12,000 
 100.00 
 12,000 
 100.00 
 26,599 
 22,424 
John Keells Warehousing (Pvt) Ltd
 12,000,000 
 86.90 
 - 
 - 
 5,039 
 5,034 
Kandy Walk Inn Ltd
 6,165,484 
 79.03 
 - 
 - 
 4,094 
 4,089 
Keells Consultants (Pvt) Ltd
 928 
 100.00 
 928 
 100.00 
 2,070 
 2,066 
Keells Realtors Ltd
 7,500,000 
 95.81 
 5,100,000 
 40.00 
 119,124 
 119,124 
Keells Shipping (Pvt) Ltd
 50,000 
 100.00 
 50,000 
 100.00 
 - 
 - 
Lanka Marine Services (Pvt) Ltd
 34,805,470 
 99.44 
 34,805,470 
 99.44 
 1,418,844 
 1,409,828 
Logipark International (Pvt) Ltd
 60,407,698 
81.36
-
-
 284 
 - 
Mack Air (Pvt) Ltd
 89,260 
 100.00 
 89,260 
 100.00 
 40,405 
 38,149 
Mack Air Services Maldives (Pvt) Ltd
4,900
 49.00
4,700
 47.00
 2,022
 2,022
Mack Freight Lanka (Pvt) Ltd
 13,000,000 
 100.00 
 13,000,000 
 100.00 
 3,015 
 2,268 
Mackinnon Keells Ltd
 31,966,951 
 100.00 
 31,966,951 
 100.00 
 670,166 
 670,166 
Mackinnon Mackenzie and Company (Shipping) Ltd
 139,092 
 100.00 
 139,092 
 100.00 
 65,844 
 65,850 

274 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
 GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2023
2023
2022
Number of
shares
Effective
 holding %
Number of
shares
Effective
 holding %
Cost
In Rs.‘000s
Cost
In Rs.‘000s
Mackinnon Mackenzie and Company of (Ceylon) Ltd
 1,244 
 100.00 
 1,244 
 100.00 
 29,122 
 29,122 
Mackinnons Travels (Pvt) Ltd
 499,996 
 100.00 
 499,996 
 100.00 
 31,853 
 31,150 
Mortlake (Pvt) Ltd
 43 
 100.00 
 43 
 100.00 
 20,000 
 20,000 
Nuwara Eliya Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
 31,606,252 
 80.32 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Rajawella Holdings Ltd
 13,063,936 
 49.85 
 11,573,339 
 45.18 
 801,707 
 801,707 
Rajawella Hotels Company Ltd
3,327,595
 80.32 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Resort Hotels Ltd
639,421
 79.89 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
The Colombo Ice Company (Pvt) Ltd
 169,999,999 
 81.36 
-
-
 1,365 
 1,155 
Tranquility (Pte) Ltd
 637,499 
 80.32 
 - 
 - 
 5,879 
 5,702 
Trans-ware Logistics (Pvt) Ltd
 5,539,929 
 100.00 
 5,539,929 
 100.00 
 58,983 
 58,983 
Travel Club (Pte) Ltd
 29,059 
 80.32 
 - 
 - 
 3,693 
 3,690 
Trinco Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
 8,120,005 
 80.32 
 - 
 - 
 3,628 
 3,623 
Trinco Walk Inn Ltd
 3,000,007 
 80.32 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Vauxhall Land Developments (Pvt) Ltd
2,171,655,391
100.00
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Walkers Tours Ltd
 3,737,634 
 98.51 
 3,737,634 
 98.05 
 200,041 
 195,291 
Waterfront Properties (Pvt) Ltd
13,996,538,919
99.10 13,265,614,492
94.78
132,745,038
 64,169,906 
Waterfront Properties (Pvt) Ltd - Preference shares
1,234,827,544
- 1,234,827,544
-
12,348,275
-
Whittall Boustead (Pvt) Ltd
 5,341,105 
 100.00 
 5,341,105 
 100.00 
 1,689,049 
 1,668,721 
Whittall Boustead (Travel) Ltd
 22,452,271 
 100.00 
 22,452,271 
 100.00 
 280,558 
 278,289 
Wirawila Walk Inn Ltd
2,012,822
 80.32 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd
 28,268,000 
 75.33 
 - 
 - 
 2,752 
 2,752 
Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd- Non voting preference shares
 10,000,000 
 -
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 177,775,113 
 96,710,286 
26.	
INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONTD.)

275
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
27. 	
INVESTMENT IN EQUITY ACCOUNTED INVESTEES 
Accounting policy 
An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence. 
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and 
operating policy decisions of the investee, but is not control or joint 
control over those policies.
Associate companies incorporated in Sri Lanka of the Group which have 
been accounted for under the equity method of accounting are:
	
Capitol Hotel Holdings Ltd
	
Colombo West International Terminal (Pvt) Ltd
	
Fairfirst Insurance Ltd
	 	 Indra Hotels and Resorts Kandy (Pvt) Ltd
	
Maersk Lanka (Pvt) Ltd
	
Nations Trust Bank PLC
	
Saffron Aviation (Pvt) Ltd
	
South Asia Gateway Terminals (Pvt) Ltd
A joint venture is a type of joint arrangement whereby the parties that 
have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the 
joint venture. Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control 
of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant 
activities require unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
Joint ventures incorporated in Sri Lanka entered into by the Group, 
which have been accounted for using the equity method, are:
	 Braybrooke Residential Properties (Pvt) Ltd 
	 DHL Keells (Pvt) Ltd
	 Inchcape Mackinnon Mackenzie Shipping (Pvt) Ltd
	 Sentinel Reality (Pvt) Ltd
The considerations made in determining significant influence or 
joint control are similar to those necessary to determine control over 
subsidiaries.
Nature of the entity’s relationship, principal place of business and the 
country of incorporation is disclosed in group directory.
The Group’s investments in its associate and joint venture are accounted 
for using the equity method. Under the equity method, the investment 
in an associate or a joint venture is initially recognised at cost. The 
carrying amount of the investment is adjusted to recognise changes in 
the Group’s share of net assets of the associate or joint venture since the 
acquisition date. Goodwill relating to the associate or joint venture is 
included in the carrying amount of the investment and is not tested for 
impairment individually.
The income statement reflects the Group’s share of the results of 
operations of the associate or joint venture. Any change in OCI of those 
investees is presented as part of the Group’s OCI. In addition, when there 
has been a change recognised directly in the equity of the associate 
or joint venture, the Group recognises its share of any changes, when 
applicable, in the statement of changes in equity.
Unrealised gains and losses resulting from transactions between the 
Group and the associate or joint venture are eliminated to the extent of 
the interest in the associate or joint venture.
The aggregate of the Group’s share of profit or loss of an associate 
and a joint venture is shown on the face of the income statement 
outside operating profit and represents profit or loss after tax and non-
controlling interests in the subsidiaries of the associate or joint venture.
After application of the equity method, the Group determines whether 
it is necessary to recognise an impairment loss on its investment 
in its associate or joint venture. At each reporting date, the Group 
determines whether there is objective evidence that the investment in 
the associate or joint venture is impaired. If there is such evidence, the 
Group calculates the amount of impairment as the difference between 
the recoverable amount of the associate or joint venture and its 
carrying value, and then recognises the loss as ‘Share of results of equity 
accounted investees’ in the Income Statement.
Upon loss of significant influence over the associate or joint control 
over the joint venture, the Group measures and recognises any retained 
investment at its fair value. Any difference between the carrying amount 
of the associate or joint venture upon loss of significant influence or joint 
control and the fair value of the retained investment and proceeds from 
disposal is recognised in income statement.
The accounting policies of associate companies and joint ventures 
conform to those used for similar transactions of the Group. Accounting 
policies that are specific to the business of associate companies are 
discussed below.
Equity method of accounting has been applied for associates and joint 
ventures using their corresponding/matching 12 months financial 
period. In the case of associates, where the reporting dates are different 
to Group reporting dates, adjustments are made for any significant 
transactions or events up to 31 March.

276 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
27. 	
INVESTMENT IN EQUITY ACCOUNTED INVESTEES (CONTD.)
 
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
Number of
 shares
Effective 
Holding 
%
2023
In Rs.
‘000s
2022
In Rs.
‘000s
Number of
 shares
Effective 
Holding 
%
2023
In Rs.
‘000s
2022
In Rs.
‘000s
27.1 	 Investments in joint ventures
Braybrooke Residential Properties (Pvt) Ltd
 102 
 50.00  1,804,500  1,804,500 
 - 
 - 
-
 - 
DHL Keells (Pvt) Ltd
 1,000,000 
 50.00 
 10,000 
 10,000 
 1,000,000 
 50.00 
 10,000 
 10,000 
Inchcape Mackinnon Mackenzie Shipping (Pvt) 
Ltd
 164,520 
 60.00 
 16,452 
 16,452 
 164,520 
 60.00 
 16,452 
 16,452 
Sentinel Reality (Pvt) Ltd
 6,958,469 
 40.16 
 65,768 
 64,949 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
27.2	 Investments in associates
Quoted
	 Nations Trust Bank PLC- Voting shares
81,453,184
 29.49  2,215,746  1,954,510 
54,483,737
 19.72  1,542,220  1,367,480 
	 Nations Trust Bank PLC- Non voting shares
22,599,226
 52.10  1,900,681 
1,827,923
17,926,596
 41.33  1,397,585  1,339,871 
Unquoted
	 Capitol Hotel Holdings (Pvt) Ltd
 3,249,232 
 19.47 
 325,483 
 325,483 
 3,254,832 
 19.47 
 325,483 
 325,483 
	 Colombo West International Terminal (Pvt) Ltd
 55,792,426 
 34.00  5,579,243  2,855,970 
 55,792,426 
34.00
 5,579,243  2,855,969 
	 Fairfirst Insurance Ltd
 68,902,870 
 19.80 
 689,718 
 689,718 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
	 Indra Hotels and Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
 67,050,025 
 32.13 
 670,742 
 670,742 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
	 Maersk Lanka (Pvt) Ltd
 30,000 
 30.00 
 150 
 150 
 30,000 
 30.00 
 150 
 150 
	 Saffron Aviation (Pvt) Ltd
 24,887,160 
 40.00 
 248,872 
 248,872 
 24,887,160 
 40.00 
 - 
 - 
	 Saffron Aviation (Pvt) Ltd - Preference shares
 135,530,835 
 - 
 506,247 
 506,247 
 135,530,835 
 - 
 - 
 - 
	 South Asia Gateway Terminals (Pvt) Ltd
 159,826,750 
 42.19  7,346,367  7,346,367 
 159,826,750 
 42.19  7,346,367  7,346,367 
Cumulative profit accruing to the Group net of 
dividend
-
-
 6,088,033 
6,194,213
 - 
 - 
-
 - 
Share of net assets of equity accounted 
investees
-
-  11,018,144  9,349,460 
 - 
 - 
-
-
-
-  38,486,146  33,865,556 
 16,217,500  13,261,772 
Group's shareholding in Nations Trust Bank PLC (NTB)
The Director of Bank Supervision of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL) 
informed John Keells Holdings PLC, in terms of a decision taken by the 
Monetary Board of the CBSL, the Group has been granted further time 
till 31 December 2021 to reduce its shareholding in the voting shares 
of the NTB to 20 percent. Subsequent to that, the Group is required 
to reduce its shareholding in the NTB to 15 percent on or before 31 
December 2022. The Monetary Board has also required NTB to limit 
the voting rights of the Group to 10 percent with effect from 31 March 
2018. NTB will continue to be an associate company of the Group. As at 
31 March 2023, the Group has an economic interest of 32.57 percent in 
NTB. The Group requested for an extension by letter dated 15 November 
2021, and a response is awaited. 
 
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2023
2022
2023
2022
In Rs.'000s
Market Value
Quoted shares of Nations Trust Bank PLC
	 Voting shares
5,213,004
 3,463,150 
3,486,959
2,316,489
	 Non voting shares
 1,283,636 
 1,284,907 
 1,018,231 
 1,019,239 
6,496,640
 4,748,057
4,505,190
3,335,728

277
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
27.3 	 SUMMARISED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF EQUITY ACCOUNTED INVESTEES
 
South Asia Gateway
 Terminals (Pvt) Ltd 
 Other associates 
 Joint ventures 
 Total
As at/year ended 31 March
In Rs.‘000s
2023
2022
2023
2022
2023
2022
2023
2022
Group share of;
Revenue
 14,382,232 
 8,103,449 
 13,363,535 
9,544,444
 7,092,226 
 8,633,085 
 34,837,993 
26,280,978
Operating expenses including 
cost of sales
 (6,712,293)
 (4,360,150)
 (8,369,466)
(6,530,011)
 (6,742,137)
 (7,194,726)  (21,823,896)
(18,084,887)
Net finance income
 93,393 
 151,165 
 282,176 
(45,422)
 (625,147)
 (107,069)
 (249,578)
(1,326)
Tax expense
 (3,092,315)
 (491,854)
 (1,817,599)
(579,322)
 (281,062)
 (377,650)
 (5,190,976)
(1,448,826)
Share of results of equity 
accounted investees
 4,671,017 
 3,402,610 
 3,458,646 
 2,389,689 
 (556,120)
 953,640 
 7,573,543 
 6,745,939 
Other comprehensive income
 913,548 
 4,448,407 
 748,850 
 (466,783)
 (21,415)
 (3,033)
 1,640,983 
 3,978,591 
Total Comprehensive Income
 5,584,565 
7,851,017
 4,207,496 
 1,922,906 
 (577,535)
 950,607 
 9,214,526 
10,724,530
 
Group share of;
Total assets
 14,954,279 
 16,226,919 
 168,098,266 
 169,020,223 
 15,468,925 
 12,522,508  198,521,470  197,769,650 
Total liabilities
 (4,616,383)
 (5,230,466)  (143,023,128)  (149,888,167)
 (12,574,972)
 (8,964,620)  (160,214,483)  (164,083,253)
Net assets
 10,337,896 
 10,996,453 
 25,075,138 
 19,132,056 
 2,893,953 
 3,557,888 
 38,306,987 
 33,686,397 
Goodwill
 - 
 - 
 165,899 
 165,899 
 13,260 
13,260
 179,159 
 179,159 
 10,337,896 
 10,996,453 
 25,241,037 
 19,297,955 
 2,907,213 
 3,571,148 
 38,486,146 
 33,865,556 
Capital commitments
-
-
-
-
3,447,202
 4,019,277
3,447,202
 4,019,277
Other commitments and 
Guarantees
-
-
82,700,599
78,043,531 
-
-
82,700,599
78,043,531 
Dividend received 
 5,582,716 
 3,362,755
711,294
 448,760
110,000
 100,000
6,404,010
 3,911,515
The share of results of equity accounted investees in the Income 
Statement and the Statement of Other Comprehensive Income are 
shown net of all related taxes. 
The Group and the Company have neither contingent liabilities nor 
capital and other commitments towards its associates and joint ventures.
Significant accounting policies that are specific to the business of 
equity accounted investees
Nations Trust Bank PLC (Bank)
Revenue from contracts with customers
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the 
economic beneﬁts will ﬂow to the Bank and the revenue can be reliably 
measured. The following speciﬁc recognition criteria must also be met 
before revenue is recognised.
Interest income
The Bank calculates interest income by applying the EIR to the gross 
carrying amount of ﬁnancial assets other than credit-impaired assets. 
The Bank ceases the recognition of interest income on assets when it is 
probable that the economic beneﬁt associated will not continue to ﬂow 
to the Bank. Interest income on all trading assets and ﬁnancial assets 
mandatorily required to be measured at fair value through profit or loss 
is also recognised using the contractual interest rate in interest income.
Net fee and commission income
The Bank earns fee and commission income from a diverse range of 
services it provides to its customers. Fee income can be divided in to the 
following three categories:
•	 Fee income earned from services that are provided over a certain 
period of time Fees earned for the provision of services are 
recognised as revenue as the services are provided. These fees include 
commission income and asset management fees, custody and other 
management and advisory fees.
•	 Fee income from providing ﬁnancial services are earned on the 
execution of a signiﬁcant act Fees and commissions arising from 
negotiating or participating in the negotiation of a transaction for 
a third party, such as the arrangement/participation or negotiation 
of the lending transactions or other securities are recognised on 
completion of the underlying transaction. Fees or components of fees 
that are linked to a certain performance are recognised after fulﬁlling 
the corresponding criteria.
•	 Fee income forming an integral part of the corresponding ﬁnancial 
instrument fees that the Bank considers to be an integral part of the 
corresponding ﬁnancial instruments include: loan origination fees, 
loan commitment fees for loans that are likely to be drawn down and 

278 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
27. 	
INVESTMENT IN EQUITY ACCOUNTED INVESTEES (CONTD.)
other credit related fees. The recognition of these fees (together with 
any incremental costs) form an integral part of the corresponding 
ﬁnancial instruments and are recognised as interest income through 
an adjustment to the EIR. The exception is, when it is unlikely that a 
loan will be drawn down, the loan commitment fees are recognised as 
revenue on expiry.
Dividend income
Dividend income is recognised when the Bank’s right to receive the 
payment is established which is generally when the shareholders 
approve the dividend.
Net trading income
Results arising from trading activities include all gains and losses from 
changes in fair value.
Rental income
Rental income is recognised on a straight line basis.
Other income 
Other income is recognised on an accrual basis.
South Asia Gateway Terminals (Pvt) Ltd
Stevedoring revenue 
Stevedoring revenue is recognised at the berthing time of the vessel. 
Storage revenue
Storage revenue is recognised on the issue of delivery advice. 
South Asia Gateway Terminals (Pvt) Ltd uses United States Dollar (USD) 
as its functional currency.
Fairfirst Insurance Ltd
Revenue from insurance contracts
General insurance business-gross written premium
Gross written premiums (GWP) comprise the total premiums received/ 
receivable for the whole period of cover provided by contracts entered 
into during the accounting period. GWP is generally written upon 
inception of the policy. Rebates that form part of the premium rate, such 
as no-claim rebates, are deducted from the gross written premium.
Insurance contract liabilities - general
Non-life insurance contract liabilities include the outstanding claims 
provision (Reserve for gross outstanding and incurred but not reported, 
and incurred and not enough reported - IBNR/ IBNER) and the provision 
for unearned premium and the provision for premium deficiency.
28.	
NON CURRENT FINANCIAL ASSETS
 
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
Note
2023
2022
2023
2022
In Rs.'000s
 
Other quoted equity investments 
210
 341 
-
-
Other unquoted equity investments
 28.1 
70,996
 133,408 
 37,158 
 87,563 
Other non equity investments
 28. 2 
63,885,845
 48,556,740 
 4,367,825 
 2,995,474 
 63,957,051 
 48,690,489 
 4,404,983 
 3,083,037 
28.1 	  Other unquoted equity investments 
 
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
In Rs.‘000s
Number of
shares
2023
2022
Number of
shares
2023
2022
Asia Power (Pvt) Ltd
282,766
 18,353 
 68,923 
282,766
 18,353 
 68,923 
Other equity instruments
 - 
52,643
 64,485 
 - 
 18,805 
 18,640 
70,996
 133,408 
 37,158 
 87,563 

279
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
28.2 	  Other non equity investments 
 
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
Note
2023
2022
2023
2022
In Rs.'000s
 
Bank deposits
569,138
 333,707 
 - 
 - 
Debentures 
9,185,289
 9,553,315 
 - 
 - 
Preference shares
-
 373,701 
 - 
 - 
Government securities
45,906,390
 31,752,878 
 - 
 - 
Deposits with non bank institutions
234,637
 298,784 
 - 
 - 
Loans to executives
28.3
1,260,602
 1,048,842 
 151,987 
 66,659 
Loans to life policyholders
28.4
2,199,675
 1,952,394 
 - 
 - 
Cash flow hedge
4,215,838
 2,928,815 
4,215,838
 2,928,815 
Asset backed securities
314,276
 314,304 
-
 - 
63,885,845
 48,556,740 
 4,367,825 
 2,995,474 
28.3 	 Loans to executives
 
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2023
2022
2023
2022
In Rs.'000s
At the beginning of the year
 1,375,524 
 1,332,400 
 89,737 
 78,998 
Loans granted / transfers
1,516,068
 718,516 
115,615
 34,305 
Recoveries
(1,274,724)
 (675,392)
(32,599)
 (23,566)
At the end of the year
1,616,868
 1,375,524 
 172,753 
 89,737 
Receivable within one year
356,266
 326,682 
 20,766 
 23,078 
Receivable between one and five years
1,260,602
 1,048,842 
 151,987 
 66,659 
1,616,868
 1,375,524 
 172,753 
 89,737 
28.4 	 Loans to life policyholders
 
GROUP
As at 31 March
2023
2022
In Rs.'000s
At the beginning of the year
 1,952,394 
 1,840,841 
Loans granted / transfers
1,107,677
878,410
Recoveries
(860,396)
(766,857)
At the end of the year
2,199,675
 1,952,394 

280 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
29.	
OTHER NON CURRENT ASSETS 
 
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
Note
2023
2022
2023
2022
In Rs.'000s
 
Pre paid cost
 602,238 
 282,339 
125,931
119,755
Work-in-progress - Waterfront project
29.1
-
 179,669,639 
 - 
 - 
Non current advances
969,066
 968,001 
 - 
 - 
1,571,304
 180,919,979 
 125,931 
 119,755 
29.1 	 Work-in-progress - Waterfront project
 
GROUP
As at 31 March
2023
2022
In Rs.'000s
Freehold property
-
 19,345,604 
Leasehold property
-
 7,584,983 
Other constructions in progress
-
 152,739,052 
-
 179,669,639 
The construction work in progress of Waterfront Properties (Pvt) Ltd, has 
been transferred to the Property plant and equipment - work in progress. 
The balance represents Freehold Land, advance paid on obtained Lease 
Land, directly attributable cost incurred on the project and borrowing 
cost capitalised.
30. 	
INVENTORIES 
Accounting policy 
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Net 
realisable value is the estimated selling price less estimated costs of 
completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale. 
The costs incurred in bringing inventories to its present location and 
condition, are accounted for as follows:
•	 Raw materials - On a weighted average basis
•	 Finished goods and work-in-progress - At the cost of direct materials, 
direct labour and an appropriate proportion of fixed production 
overheads based on normal operating capacity but excluding 
borrowing costs
•	 Other inventories – At actual cost
During the year ended 31 March 2023, Rs.113 Mn (2022 - Rs.57 Mn) was 
recognised as an expense for inventories carried at net realisable value. 
This is recognised in cost of sales and other operating expenses. 
 
GROUP
As at 31 March
2023
2022
In Rs.'000s
Inventories 
Raw materials
 1,912,716 
 1,353,492 
Finished goods
 12,835,764 
 12,581,519 
Produce stocks
 491,670 
 241,284 
Other stocks
 3,435,980 
 3,028,486 
Apartments and commercial space
 20,418,384 
 19,020,106 
 39,094,514 
 36,224,887 

281
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
31. 	
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 
A receivable represents the Group’s right to an amount of consideration that is unconditional. Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are 
generally on terms of 30 to 90 days. During the year, Rs.478 Mn (2022 - Rs.680 Mn) and Rs.0.6 Mn (2022 - Rs.0.9 Mn) for the Group and the Company 
respectively, was recognised as a provision for expected credit losses on trade receivables.
 
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
Note
2023
2022
2023
2022
In Rs.'000s
 
Trade and other receivables
 19,940,932 
 25,550,066 
 186,967 
 80,836 
Reinsurance receivables
 590,215 
 1,135,652 
 - 
 - 
Premiums receivable
 620,665 
482,948
 - 
 - 
Loans to executives
28.3
 356,266 
326,682
 20,766 
 23,078 
 21,508,078 
 27,495,348 
 207,733 
 103,914 
32. 	
OTHER CURRENT ASSETS 
 
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2023
2022
2023
2022
In Rs.'000s
Prepayments and non cash receivables
 12,533,737 
 9,539,625 
 1,669,156 
 802,463 
Tax recoverable
 2,036,715 
 2,374,836 
 26,479 
 14,141 
 14,570,452 
 11,914,461 
 1,695,635 
 816,604 
33. 	
SHORT TERM INVESTMENTS 
Short-term investments are liquid assets or cash, which are being held for a short period of time, with the primary purpose of controlling the tactical 
asset allocation. 
 
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
Note
2023
2022
2023
2022
In Rs.'000s
 
Quoted equities at market value
33.1
 3,593,064 
 2,626,213 
 - 
 - 
More than 3 months and less than 1 year
	 Debentures
 1,331,083 
 1,454,315 
 - 
 - 
	 Bank deposits
 28,228,305 
3,201,549
 27,525,841 
 510,067 
	 Government securities
 3,803,586 
 930,118 
 - 
 - 
 36,956,038 
8,212,195
 27,525,841 
 510,067 
Less than 3 months
	 Debentures
 322,606 
 - 
-
 - 
	 Bank deposits
 41,225,620 
92,735,338
 29,947,412 
 83,462,593 
	 Government securities
 3,717,558 
9,774,011
-
 - 
Reported in statement of cash flows
 45,265,784 
102,509,349
 29,947,412 
 83,462,593 
 82,221,822 
110,721,544
 57,473,253 
 83,972,660 

282 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
33. 	
SHORT TERM INVESTMENTS (CONTD.)
33.1 	 Quoted equities at market value - Group
 
Number of shares
Cost
Market value
As at 31 March
2023
2022
2023
In Rs.
‘000s
2022
In Rs.
‘000s
2023
In Rs.
‘000s
2022
In Rs.
‘000s
Access Engineering PLC
 504,769 
 474,129 
 8,105 
 11,320 
 7,168 
 7,112 
Agstar PLC
 12,726,104 
 - 
 224,993 
 - 
 142,532 
 - 
Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC
 1,105,257 
 381,551 
 51,929 
 14,206 
 66,205 
 13,545 
Aitken Spence PLC
 2,684,367 
 2,227,985 
 285,761 
 186,785 
 351,652 
 164,202 
Alumex PLC
 9,440,274 
 - 
 77,455 
 - 
 77,410 
 - 
BPPL Holdings PLC
 - 
 229,804 
 - 
 4,854 
 - 
 4,527 
Capital Alliance PLC
 1,126,043 
 - 
 34,067 
 - 
 36,709 
-
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC
 974,844 
 94,600 
 36,212 
 6,375 
 38,994 
 3,680 
Ceylon Tobacco Company PLC
 307,316 
 195,932 
 250,799 
 190,646 
 209,205 
 112,906 
Chevron Lubricants Lanka PLC
 4,000 
 - 
 374 
-
 366 
-
CIC Holdings PLC
 6,161,257 
 371,596 
 497,655 
 24,569 
 413,328 
 14,158 
Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC
 - 
 2,019,826 
 - 
 177,118 
 - 
 126,643 
Dialog Axiata PLC
 17,676,940 
 25,974,333 
 200,978 
 314,495 
 183,840 
 259,743 
Distilleries Company of Sri Lanka PLC
 2,623,258 
-
 54,557 
-
 51,416 
 - 
Expo Lanka Holdings PLC
 - 
 101,495 
-
 21,658 
 - 
 21,086 
Hayleys Fabric PLC
 3,367,985 
 4,719,190 
 109,239 
 160,047 
 84,874 
 137,328 
Hatton National Bank PLC
 2,917,710 
 1,465,124 
 339,427 
 202,510 
 377,843 
 160,065 
Hela Apparel Holdings PLC 
 10,305,776 
 12,990,515 
 126,838 
 194,858 
 82,446 
 167,578 
Hemas Holdings PLC
 5,788,039 
 - 
 347,330 
-
 376,223 
 - 
Hsenid Business Solutions PLC
 3,365,679 
 1,403,217 
 56,207 
 17,540 
 49,812 
 25,258 
John Keells Holdings PLC
 1,224,949 
 5,527,500 
 157,387 
 696,856 
 171,493 
 801,488 
John Keells Hotels PLC
 6,785,692 
 3,332,244 
 81,748 
 30,262 
 128,250 
 38,987 
Lanka IOC PLC
 1,842,280 
 - 
 350,722 
 - 
 315,951 
 - 
Lion Brewery (Ceylon) PLC
 3,149 
 - 
 1,968 
 - 
 2,251 
 - 
Pan Asia Banking Corporation PLC
 1,145,638 
 - 
 16,268 
 - 
 14,320 
 - 
Prime Lands Residencies PLC
 2,007,801 
 - 
 14,441 
 - 
 16,062 
 - 
Renuka Agri Foods PLC
 - 
 12,565,759 
-
 86,568 
 - 
 45,237 
Sampath Bank PLC
 80,298 
 1,804,326 
 4,493 
 113,679 
 4,216 
 82,638 
Singer Sri Lanka PLC
 867,838 
 - 
 9,039 
 - 
 13,018 
 - 
Sunshine Holdings PLC
 3,076,136 
 980,762 
 113,216 
 37,901 
 138,426 
 35,896 
Textured Jersey Lanka PLC
 7,239,468 
 8,762,843 
 260,647 
 308,039 
 231,663 
 348,761 
Tokyo Cement Company (Lanka) PLC
 147,826 
 1,633,487 
 5,219 
 95,068 
 7,391 
 55,375 
 3,717,074 
 2,895,354 
 3,593,064 
 2,626,213 
Above list mainly comprises of the investments made by Union Assurance PLC (UA) under the unit linked equity tracker fund.

283
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
34.1 	 Stated capital 
 
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2023
2022
Number of
shares
In ‘000s
Value of
shares
In Rs.‘000s
Number of
shares
In ‘000s
Value of
shares
In Rs.‘000s
Fully paid ordinary shares
At the beginning of the year
 1,384,917 
 73,187,861 
 1,319,664 
 63,101,661 
Share options exercised
 - 
 - 
 211 
 37,209 
Private placement of ordinary shares
 - 
 - 
 65,042 
10,048,991
At the end of the year
 1,384,917 
 73,187,861 
 1,384,917 
73,187,861
34. 	
STATED CAPITAL AND OTHER COMPONENTS OF EQUITY
Accounting policy
The ordinary shares of John Keells Holdings PLC are quoted in the 
Colombo Stock Exchange and the Global Depository Receipts are listed 
on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange. The holders of ordinary shares 
are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are 
eligible for one vote per share at General Meetings of the Company. The 
Group has in place an Employee Share Option Plan. Please refer Note 35 
for further details.
The number of shares in issue as at 31 March 2023 was 1,384,916,632 
which include global depository receipts (GDRs) of 1,320,942 (2022 
-1,320,942 ). Further information on the composition of shares in issue is 
given under the Share Information section of the Annual Report. 
A quantum of 35,295,775 shares (2022 - 36,788,659) have been reserved 
to be issued under the employee share option plan as at 31 March 2023.
Private placement of ordinary shares
The Company raised funds through a private placement of ordinary 
shares for Rs. equivalent of USD 80 million from the Asian Development 
Bank in two phases. 
34.2	
Other components of equity 
 
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2023
2022
2023
2022
In Rs.'000s
Revaluation reserve
41,136,975
 41,012,553 
 - 
 - 
Foreign currency translation reserve
 84,594,202 
 79,185,589 
 - 
 - 
Other capital reserve
 13,840,507 
 3,060,095 
 13,840,507 
 3,060,095 
Restricted regulatory reserve
 3,626,604 
 3,626,604 
 - 
 - 
Cash flow hedge reserve
 4,215,838 
 2,928,815 
 4,215,838 
 2,928,815 
Fair value reserve of financial assets at FVOCI
 (1,323,092)
 (802,243)
 (1,340)
 21,171 
146,091,034
129,011,413 
 18,055,005 
 6,010,081 

284 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
34. 	
STATED CAPITAL AND OTHER COMPONENTS OF EQUITY 
(CONTD.)
The revaluation reserve consists of the net surplus on the revaluation of 
property, plant and equipment and present value of acquired in-force 
business (PVIB).
The foreign currency translation reserve comprises the net exchange 
movement arising from the currency translation of foreign operations 
and equity accounted investees into Sri Lankan rupees.
The other capital reserve is used to recognise the value of equity-
settled share-based payments provided to employees, including key 
management personnel, as part of their remuneration.
Restricted regulatory reserve
Union Assurance PLC (UA)
Based on the direction issued by the IRCSL dated 20 March 2018, and 
subsequent approval, UA has transferred Rs.3,382 Mn attributable to 
non-participating and non unit fund of unit linked business from the life 
policyholder fund to the life shareholder fund (SHF). The distribution of 
the one-off surplus to shareholders, held as part of the Restricted The 
regulatory Reserve, is subject to meeting governance requirements 
stipulated by the IRCSL and can only be released upon receiving 
approval from the IRCSL. The one-off surplus in the SHF is represented by 
government debt securities as per the direction of the IRCSL. 
Nations Trust Bank PLC (NTB)
The statutory reserve fund is maintained as per the requirements in 
terms of Section 20 of the Banking Act No 30 of 1988. Accordingly, a sum 
equivalent to 5% of proﬁt after tax transferred to the reserve fund until 
the reserve fund is equal to 50% of the Bank’s Stated Capital. Thereafter, 
a further 2% of proﬁts will be transferred until the said reserve fund is 
equal to the Bank’s stated Capital.
Cash flow hedge reserve includes the fair value changes on the effective 
portion of interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges. 
The fair value reserve of financial assets at FVOCI includes changes in fair 
value of financial instruments designated as financial assets at FVOCI.
35. 	
SHARE-BASED PAYMENT PLANS 
Accounting Policy
Employee share option plan - Equity-settled transactions
Employees of the Group receive remuneration in the form of share-
based payment transactions, whereby employees render services as 
consideration for equity instruments (equity-settled transactions).
The Group applies SLFRS 2 Share Based Payments in accounting for 
employee remuneration in the form of shares from 1 April 2013 onwards.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with 
a corresponding increase in other capital reserves in equity, over the 
period in which the performance and service conditions are fulfilled. 
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at 
each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which 
the vesting period has expired and the Group’s best estimate of the 
number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest. The expense or 
credit to the income statement for a period represents the movement 
in cumulative expense recognised as at the beginning and end of that 
period and is recognised in employee benefits expense.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, 
except for equity-settled transactions where vesting is conditional 
upon a market or non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting 
irrespective of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is 
satisfied, provided that all other performance and service conditions are 
satisfied.
Where the terms of an equity-settled transaction award are modified, 
the minimum expense recognised is the expense as if the terms had not 
been modified, if the original terms of the award are met. An additional 
expense is recognised for any modification that increases the total fair 
value of the share-based payment transaction, or is otherwise beneficial 
to the employee as measured at the date of modification.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share 
dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per share (further details 
are given in Note 19.2).
Employee share option scheme
Under the John Keells Group’s Employees share option scheme (ESOP), 
share options of the parent are granted to executives of the Group 
generally with more than 12 months of service. The exercise price of the 
share options is equal to the 30 days volume weighted average market 
price of the underlying shares on the date of grant. The share options 
vest over a period of four years and is dependent on a performance 
criteria and a service criteria. The performance criteria being a minimum 
performance achievement of “Met Expectations” and service criteria 
being that the employee has to be in employment at the time the share 
options vest. The fair value of the share options is estimated at the grant 
date using a binomial option pricing model, taking into account the 
terms and conditions upon which the share options were granted.
The contractual term for each option granted is five years. There are no 
cash settlement alternatives. The Group does not have a past practice of 
cash settlement for these share options.

285
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
 
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
2023
2022
2023
2022
In Rs.'000s
Share based payment expense during the year
 274,062
 204,618
78,989
 61,117
Movements in the year
The following table illustrates the number (No.) and weighted average exercise prices (WAEP) of, and movements in, share options during the year;
 
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2023
2022
2023
2022
No.
WAEP
No.
WAEP
No.
WAEP
No.
WAEP
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 
 36,788,659 
 149.01 
 38,047,143
 150.06
 12,088,237 
 150.18 
 12,771,300 
 150.82 
Granted during the year
 8,291,500 
 124.57 
6,585,800
136.64
 2,200,300 
 123.21 
2,017,300
136.64
Transfers
 - 
-
-
-
 (7,373)
 154.10 
-
-
Exercised during the year
-
-
(210,675)
137.28
 - 
 - 
-
-
Expired during the year
 (9,784,384)
170.02 
(7,633,609)
143.93
 (3,569,388)
 169.91 
(2,700,363)
143.06 
Outstanding at the end of the year
 35,295,775 
 137.44 
36,788,659
149.01
 10,711,776 
 138.07 
12,088,237 
150.18
Exercisable at the end of the year
18,711,100
143.90
21,929,305
156.84
 5,829,401 
 144.73 
7,412,529 
158.31
 
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2023
Plan no 11
award 1
2022
Plan no 10
award 3
2021
Plan no 10
award 2
2020
Plan no 10
award 1
2019
Plan no 9
award 3
Dividend yield (%)
               2.90 
3.28
3.87
 3.62 
 3.76 
Expected volatility (%)
              24.15 
22.37
21.35
 17.47 
 17.77 
Risk free interest rate (%)
              23.10 
8.87
6.44
 9.83 
 10.09 
Expected life of share options (Years)
                    5 
5
5
5
5
Weighted average share price at the grant date (Rs.)
            119.85 
132.63
134.74
 138.70 
 154.10 
Weighted average remaining contractual life for the share options outstanding 
(Years)
                    3 
3
3
3
3
Weighted average fair value of options granted during the year (Rs.) 
              39.95 
44.21
44.91
 46.23 
51.37
Exercise price for options outstanding at the end of the year (Rs.)
            121.91 
136.64
132.86
 136.97 
 154.10 
Exercise price for options outstanding at the end of the year (Rs.) (adjusted as at 31 
March 2023)
            121.91 
136.64
132.86
 136.97 
154.14
Accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions 
The Group measures the cost of equity-settled transactions with 
employees by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments on 
the date at which they are granted. Estimating fair value for share-based 
payment transactions require determination of the most appropriate 
valuation model, which is dependent on the terms and conditions of 
the grant. This estimate also requires the determination of the most 
appropriate inputs to the valuation model, including the expected life of 
the share option, volatility and dividend yield and making assumptions 
about them.
The expected life of the share options is based on historical data and 
current expectations and is not necessarily indicative of exercise patterns 
that may occur. The expected volatility reflects the assumption that 
the historical volatility over a period similar to the life of the options 
is indicative of future trends, which may not necessarily be the actual 
outcome either.
The following information was used and results were generated using 
binomial model for ESOP.

286 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Life insurance contract liabilities 
Life insurance contract liabilities are recognised when contracts are 
entered into and premiums are charged. 
These liabilities are measured by using the gross premium valuation 
method as prescribed by the Regulation of Insurance Industry Act, No. 
43 of 2000. The liability is determined as the discounted value of the 
expected contractual cash outflows less the discounted value of the 
expected premiums. Valuation assumptions are derived based on the 
best estimate experience with a prescribed risk margin to allow for 
adverse deviations. Non participating liabilities are discounted fund 
based yield of non participating insurance fund. 
The value of participating policy liabilities is the higher of the value of 
the guaranteed benefits liability and the total benefits liability, derived 
at the participating insurance fund level. In calculating the guaranteed 
benefits liability, only the guaranteed benefits are considered and the 
cash flows are discounted using the risk free interest rate yield curve. 
Total benefits liability includes all the guaranteed and non guaranteed 
benefits, and discount the cash flows using the fund based yield of the 
participating insurance fund. 
The Liability is de-recognised when the contract expenses is discharged 
or is cancelled. At each reporting date, an assessment is made of 
whether the recognised life insurance liabilities are adequate, by using a 
liability adequacy test.
Liability adequacy test (LAT)
At each reporting date, an assessment is made of whether the 
recognised life insurance liabilities are adequate by using an existing 
liability adequacy test as laid out under SLFRS 4 - Insurance Contracts. 
The liability value is adjusted to the extent that it is sufficient to meet 
future benefits and expenses.
In performing the adequacy test, current best estimates of future 
contractual cash flows, including related cash flows such as claims 
handling and policy administration expenses, policyholder options 
and guarantees, as well as investment income from assets backing 
such liabilities, are used. A number of valuation methods are applied, 
including discounted cash flows to the extent that the test involves 
discounting of cash flows, the interest rate applied based on 
management’s prudent expectation of current market interest rates
Any deficiency shall be recognised in the Income Statement by setting 
up a provision for liability adequacy.
Accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions
Product classification
SLFRS 4 requires contracts written by insurers to be classified as either 
insurance contracts or investment contracts depending on the level of 
insurance risk transferred. 
Insurance contracts are contracts under which one party (the Insurer) 
accepts significant insurance risk from another party (the policyholder) 
by agreeing to compensate the policyholder if a specified uncertain 
future event (the insured event) adversely affects the policyholder. 
Significant insurance risk exists if an insured event could cause an insurer 
to pay significant additional benefits in any scenario, excluding scenarios 
that lack commercial substance (i.e. have no discernible effect on the 
economics of the transaction). The classification of contracts identifies 
both the insurance contracts that the company issues and reinsurance 
contracts that the company holds. 
Contracts where the company does not assume a significant insurance 
risk is classified as investment contracts. 
Investment contracts are those contracts that transfer significant 
financial risks and no significant insurance risks. Financial risk is the risk 
of a possible future change in one or more of a specified interest rates, 
financial instrument prices, commodity prices, foreign exchange rates, 
index of price or rates, credit ratings or credit index or other variables, 
provided in the case of a non-financial variable that the variable is not 
specific to a party to the contract.
Once a contract has been classified as an insurance contract, it remains 
an insurance contract for the remainder of its lifetime, even if the 
insurance risk reduces significantly during this period, unless all rights 
and obligations are extinguished or expired. Investment contracts 
can, however, be reclassified as insurance contracts after inception if 
insurance risk becomes significant.
Insurance and investment contracts are further classified as being either 
with or without discretionary participating features.
36.	
INSURANCE CONTRACT LIABILITIES
Accounting policy 
Insurance contract liabilities 
The long term and unit linked insurance business provisions are based 
on the recommendation of the independent external actuary following 
annual valuation of the life insurance business. The actuarial valuation 
takes into account all liabilities, including contingent liabilities and is 
based on assumptions recommended by the actuary.
36.1 	 Insurance contract liabilities 
 
GROUP
As at 31 March
2023
2022
In Rs.'000s
Insurance contract liabilities
 58,381,193 
 50,939,495 
Unclaimed benefits
 526,117 
 409,828 
 58,907,310 
 51,349,323 

287
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
Discretionary participating features (DPF)
DPF is a contractual right to receive, as a supplement to guaranteed 
benefits, additional benefits that;
• 	 are likely to be a significant portion of the total contractual benefits;
• 	 the amount or timing of which is contractually at the discretion of the 
issuer; and contractually based on:
• 	 The performance of a specified pool of contracts or a specified type of 
contract,
• 	 Realised and or unrealised investment returns on a specified pool of 
assets held by the issuer, and
• 	 The profit or loss of the company, fund or other entity that issues the 
contract.
Derivatives embedded in an insurance contract or an investment 
contract with DPF are separated and fair valued through the income 
statement unless the embedded derivative itself is an insurance contract 
or investment contract with DPF. The derivative is also not separated if 
the host insurance contract and / or investment contract with DPF is 
measured at fair value through the profit and loss.
IRCSL regulations and the terms and conditions of these contracts 
set out the bases for the determination of the amounts on which the 
additional discretionary benefits are based (the DPF eligible surplus) 
and within which the company may exercise its discretion as to the 
quantum and timing of their payments to contract holders. At least 90% 
of the eligible surplus must be attributed to contract holders as a group 
(which can include future contract holders) and the amount and timing 
of the distribution to individual contract holders is at the discretion 
of the company, subject to the advice of the appointed actuary. 
All DPF liabilities including unallocated surpluses, both guaranteed 
and discretionary, at the end of the reporting period are held within 
insurance contract liabilities, as appropriate.
Valuation of life insurance contract liabilities
Long duration contract liabilities included in the life insurance fund, 
result primarily from traditional participating, non-participating life and 
universal life insurance products. Short duration contract liabilities are 
primarily group term. The actuarial reserves have been established based 
on the following;
• 	 Non-participating liabilities and participating liabilities are discounted 
using their respective fund yield curves.
• 	 Mortality rates based on published mortality tables adjusted for actual 
experience as required by regulations issued by the IRCSL.
• 	 Surrender rates based on actual experience.
The amount of policyholder dividend to be paid is determined annually 
by the company. The dividend includes life policyholders share of net 
income that is required to be allocated by the insurance contract.
The main assumptions used relate to mortality, morbidity, longevity, 
investment returns, expenses, lapses, surrender rates and discount 
rates as further detailed in notes to the financial statements. For those 
contracts that insure risk related to longevity, prudent allowance is made 
for expected future mortality improvements, as well as wide ranging 
changes to the life style, which could result in significant changes to the 
expected future mortality exposure.
Estimates are also made for future investment income arising from the 
assets backing Life Insurance contracts. These estimates are based on 
current market returns, as well as expectations about future economic 
and financial developments. During the last year, Sri Lankan economy 
was impacted by geopolitical and foreign exchange issues which 
introduced very high levels of volatility to the economic markets. As a 
result the interest rates increased a lot impacting the value of assets and 
also our expectations about future economic conditions. The fund based 
yield curves used in calculation of actuarial reserves have been derived 
using estimates of future economic conditions which still remains 
volatile and evolving in nature.
Assumptions on future expenses are based on current expense levels, 
adjusted for expected expense inflation, if appropriate. Lapse and 
surrender rates are based on the Company’s historical experience of 
lapses and surrenders.
Valuation of life insurance fund
The valuation of the conventional life insurance fund as at 31 
December 2022 was carried out by Mr. Vivek Jalan FIA, FIAI of 
Willis Towers Watson India (Pvt) Ltd and a sum of Rs.2,300 million 
was transferred from the conventional life insurance fund to the 
shareholders fund for the year 2022. Subsequent to the transfer the  
conventional life fund stood at Rs.55,180 million.
Similarly the non unit fund of linked long term business valuation 
was carried out by Mr. Vivek Jalan FIA, FIAI of Willis Towers Watson 
India Private Limited and the non unit fund stood at Rs.251 million.	
In the opinion of the consultant actuary, the admissible assets of 
the conventional life insurance fund and the non unit fund of linked 
long term business as at 31 December 2022 is adequate to cover the 
liabilities of the funds.
As at 31 March 2023, an internal actuarial valuation has been carried 
out for the conventional life insurance fund and the non unit fund of 
linked long term business based on long-term assumptions, risk-free 
interest rate and yield which were increased during the latter half of 
the year. It is our opinion that the admissible assets are adequate to 
cover the liabilities of the funds.
One - off surplus arising from change in policy
liability valuation
The one-off surplus comprises of Rs.432.5 Mn attributable to 
participating business and Rs.2.5 Mn attributable to unit linked fund 
and Rs.3,382 Mn attributable to non-participating and non-unit fund 
of unit linked business.
Based on the directions issued by the IRCSL dated 20 March 2018 
and subsequent approval, the Company has transferred Rs.3,382 Mn 
attributable to non - participating and non-unit fund of unit linked 
business from life policyholder fund through Income Statement to 
life shareholder fund and held as part of the Restricted Regulatory 
Reserve under equity in the statement of financial position.
One - off Surplus was determined as the difference between the NPV 
solvency basis liability and the GPV distribution basis liability as of 31 
December 2015. This is calculated for Participating and other than 
participating funds, separately. Above basis is in line with the ‘Minimum 
One - off Surplus’ calculation basis provided in the IRCSL guideline.

288 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
36.	
INSURANCE CONTRACT LIABILITIES (CONTD.)
Movement in Life Insurance fund
As at 31 December
In Rs.‘000s
2022
2021
Conventional life insurance fund
Balance as at 1 January
 48,748,971 
 41,826,947 
Charge relating to Surcharge Tax
 (39,195)
 - 
Balance as at 1 January (Adjusted)
 48,709,776 
 41,826,947 
Increase in life insurance fund before surplus transfer to share holders
 8,722,945 
 8,525,435 
Transfer to shareholders
 (2,300,000)
 (1,600,000)
Effect of taxation on surplus/bonus transferred to policyholders
 (6,761)
 (27,162)
Net change in unclaimed benefits
 53,829 
 23,751 
Balance as at 31 December 
 55,179,789 
 48,748,971 
Non unit fund of linked life insurance contracts
Balance as at 1 January
 169,176 
 54,710 
Increase in non unit fund of linked life insurance before surplus transfer to share holders
 48,827 
 53,173 
Transfer to shareholders
 - 
 - 
Net change in unclaimed benefits
 33,101 
 61,293 
Balance as at 31 December 
 251,104 
 169,176 
 55,430,893 
 48,918,147 
Liability adequacy test (LAT) - Life insurance contract liabilities
As at 31 December 2022, liability adequacy test was performed by the 
appointed actuary Mr. Vivek Jalan FIA, FIAI of Willis Towers Watson India 
Private Limited who concluded that, the liability value is sufficient to 
meet future benefits and expenses. Hence, no provision was required to 
be made for any premium deficiency.
36.2 	 Change in life insurance contract liabilities 
The results of Union Assurance PLC’s (UA) life business segment is 
consolidated into the Group’s Consolidated Income Statement. The 
change in life insurance contract liabilities represents the transfer to 
the Life Fund, the difference between all income and expenditure 
attributable to life policy holders during the year. 
SUMMARISED FINANCIAL INFORMATION
For the year ended 31 March
2023
2022
In Rs.'000s
Total Revenue
 15,952,535 
 15,225,571 
Cost of sales
 (9,172,168)
 (7,829,465)
Gross profit
 6,780,367 
 7,396,106 
Operating expenses including distribution and administration expenses
 (5,341,994)
 (4,377,144)
Net finance income
 8,923,960 
 5,281,652 
Profit attributable to shareholders of UA
 (2,712,101)
 (1,884,315)
Change in insurance contract liabilities
 7,650,232 
 6,416,299 
Union Assurance PLC follows a risk mitigation approach for inherent uncertainty regarding the occurrence, amount or timing of insurance contract 
liabilities.

289
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
The following table describes headline risks and responses.
Headline risk
Risk response
Investment return on underlying items failing below guaranteed minimum 
rates
Management discretion to determine amount and timing of policy 
holders bonuses (within limits)
Insufficient fees to cover cost of guarantees and expenses
Hedging programme
Differences in duration and yield of assets and liabilities
• Matching of assets and liabilities cash flows
• Investing in investment grade assets
Policy holder behavioural risk
Surrender penalty
37. 	
INTEREST-BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS 
37.1 	 Movement 
 
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2023
2022
2023
2022
In Rs.'000s
At the beginning of the year
 199,546,346 
 128,473,113 
 67,197,027 
 47,186,858 
Cash movement
Loans obtained
 2,077,091 
 53,876,802 
-
 3,000,000 
Repayments
 (45,034,878)
 (34,946,688)
 (1,837,500)
 (1,474,806)
Non cash movement
Accrued Interest
1,565,807
 948,393 
 590,611 
134,057
Exchange differences
 14,463,952 
 51,194,726 
 4,302,577 
 18,350,918 
At the end of the year
 172,618,318 
 199,546,346 
 70,252,715 
 67,197,027 
Repayable within one year
 12,839,426 
40,624,448
 3,344,997 
 2,562,994 
Repayable after one year
 159,778,892 
158,921,898
 66,907,718 
 64,634,033 
 172,618,318 
 199,546,346 
 70,252,715 
 67,197,027 
37.2 	 Security and repayment terms
As at 31 March
Nominal 
Interest rate
Repayment terms
Assets Pledged and Collaterals
2023
In Rs.‘000s
2022
In Rs.‘000s
COMPANY
John Keells Holdings 
PLC
Fixed rate
28 quarterly installments 
commencing from December 2020
-
 4,275,000
 5,201,085
Fixed rate
60 monthly installments 
commencing from December 2020
-
 4,875,000
 5,550,000
Fixed rate 
6-month LIBOR 
plus margin* 
(on separate 
components of 
the loan)
12 semi annual installments 
commencing from December 2024 
after 4 years grace period
Freehold land held under Vauxhall 
Land Developments (Pvt) Ltd (VLD), 
pledge of shares held by the Group 
in Ceylon Cold Stores PLC and Union 
Assurance PLC, and identified liquid 
assets.
 58,477,715
 53,558,442
Fixed rate
60 monthly installments 
commencing from June 2021
-
 2,625,000
 2,887,500
 70,252,715
67,197,027

290 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
37. 	
INTEREST-BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS (CONTD.)
37.2 	 Security and repayment terms (Contd.)
As at 31 March
Nominal 
Interest rate
Repayment terms
Assets Pledged and Collaterals
2023
In Rs.‘000s
2022
In Rs.‘000s
GROUP COMPANIES
Asian Hotels and 
Properties PLC
Fixed rate
17 monthly installments 
commencing from May 2021 after 
6 months grace period
-
-
 50,000
Fixed rate
36 monthly installments 
commencing from September 
2021 after 6 months grace period
-
 211,522
 200,000 
AWPLR plus 
margin
Short term revolving loan to be 
settled within 180 days
-
-
452,000
Beruwala Holiday 
Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
1 month SOFR 
plus margin 
23 monthly installments 
commencing from August 2022
-
 208,022
 334,294
Ceylon Cold Stores 
PLC
Fixed rate
48 monthly installments with one 
year grace period
-
 329,203
 372,298
Ceylon Holiday 
Resorts Ltd
Fixed rate
48 monthly installments 
commencing from January 2023 
after 12 months grace period
Letter of Comfort from John Keells 
Holdings PLC
 591,120
 602,349 
Fixed for the first 
5 years and 1 
month AWPLR 
plus margin for 
the next 5 years 
102 monthly installments 
commencing from August 2022 
after 18 months grace period
Rs.3 Bn Corporate Guarantee from 
John Keells Hotels PLC 
 3,033,912
 3,063,305
Cinnamon Hotel 
Management Ltd 
Fixed rate
15 monthly installments 
commencing from April 2021
-
-
 4,800
Fantasea World 
Investments (Pte) 
Ltd
3 months SOFR 
plus margin
22 quarterly installments 
commencing from December 2018 
after 18 months grace period 
Leasehold rights of Island of 
Cinnamon Hakuraa Huraa. 
 5,049,917
 5,739,490
Habarana Walk Inn Ltd
Fixed rate
18 monthly installments 
commencing from July 2022 after 
6 months grace period
Rs.12.7 Mn Corporate Guarantee 
from John Keells Hotels PLC and 
Letter of Comfort from John Keells 
Holdings PLC
 5,966
 13,138
Habarana Lodge Ltd
1 month SOFR 
plus margin
23 monthly installments 
commencing from August 2022
-
 40,180
 59,085
Fixed rate
18 monthly installments 
commencing from July 2022 after 
6 months grace period
Rs.37.9 Mn Corporate Guarantee 
from John Keells Hotels PLC and 
Letter of Comfort from John Keells 
Holdings PLC 
 17,838
 39,965
Hikkaduwa Holiday 
Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
1 month SOFR 
plus margin
23 monthly installments 
commencing from August 2022
-
 109,013
 249,659
Fixed rate
18 monthly installments 
commencing from July 2022 after 
6 months grace period
Rs.18.9 Mn Corporate Guarantee 
from John Keells Hotels PLC and 
Letter of Comfort from John Keells 
Holdings PLC 
 8,892
 19,921
Fixed rate
72 monthly installments 
commencing from July 2022 after 
12 months grace period
Rs.540 Mn Corporate Guarantee 
from John Keells Hotels PLC 
 534,117
 560,359
John Keells Properties 
Ja-Ela (Pvt) Ltd
1 month COF plus 
margin
60 monthly installments 
commencing from December 2016
General terms and conditions for 
Rs.450 Mn signed relating to the 
term loan
 68,500
 145,041
John Keells 
Information 
Technology (Pvt) 
Ltd
Fixed rate
18 monthly installments 
commencing from April 2021
 - 
-
 4,000

291
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
As at 31 March
Nominal 
Interest rate
Repayment terms
Assets Pledged and Collaterals
2023
In Rs.‘000s
2022
In Rs.‘000s
John Keells Logistics 
(Pvt) Ltd
Fixed rate
24 monthly installments 
commencing from April 2021
 - 
 199,760
 4,000
John Keells Hotels PLC
Fixed rate
15 monthly installments 
commencing from June 2021 after 
9 months grace period
Letter of undertaking from John 
Keells Hotels PLC 
-
 1,421
Fixed for the first 
3 years and 1 
month AWPLR 
plus margin for 
the next 4 years
10 bi-annual installments 
commencing from June 2023 after 
24 months grace period
Letter of Comfort from John Keells 
Holdings PLC 
 1,199,755
 1,104,926
Jaykay Marketing 
Services (Pvt) Ltd
Fixed rate
20 quarterly installments 
commencing from March 2021
-
 2,200,000
 3,000,000
Fixed rate
20 quarterly installments 
commencing from May 2021
 - 
 1,200,000
 1,600,000
Fixed rate
Repayment on maturity 
-
 2,000,000
 2,000,000
Keells Food Products 
PLC
1 month COF plus 
margin
60 monthly installments 
commencing from February 2019
 - 
 42,213
 85,668
Kandy Walk Inn Ltd
Fixed rate
18 monthly installments 
commencing from July 2022 after 
6 months grace period
Rs.26.6 Mn Corporate Guarantee 
from John Keells Hotels PLC and 
Letter of Comfort from John Keells 
Holdings PLC 
 12,509
 28,064
Logipark International 
(Pvt) Ltd
1 month COF plus 
margin
15 quarterly installments after 1 
year grace period
Mortgage over the property
 3,291,305
 2,980,000
Mack Air (Pvt) Ltd
Fixed rate
15 monthly installments 
commencing after 9 months grace 
period
-
 2,000
 10,000
Mack International 
Freight (Pvt) Ltd
Fixed rate
15 monthly installments 
commencing after 9 months grace 
period
-
-
 3,333
Rajawella Holdings Ltd
1 month COF plus 
margin
60 monthly installments 
commencing from April 2020 after 
1 year grace period
-
 236,242
 393,340
The Colombo Ice 
Company (Pvt) Ltd
1 month COF plus 
margin
60 monthly installments 
commencing from March 2017 
after 1 year grace period 
Rs.773 Mn Corporate Guarantee 
from Ceylon Cold Stores PLC 
 248,162
 534,722
Trans Asia Hotels PLC
1 month LIBOR 
plus margin
24 Monthly installments 
commencing from January 2023
-
 213,987
-
5 quarterly installments 
commencing from March 2021
-
-
 228,750
Tranquility (Pte) Ltd
3 months SOFR 
plus margin
16 quarterly installments after 12 
months grace period commencing 
from September 2019 and grace 
period of 12 months from March 
2020 to February 2021
Leasehold right on the Island of 
Kanuoiy Huraa in Kaafu (Male') 
 6,597,250
 8,084,940
Trinco Holiday Resorts 
(Pvt) Ltd
AWPLR plus 
margin
13 monthly installments 
commencing from July 2022 after 
12 months grace period
Letter of Comfort from John Keells 
Hotels PLC
 61,267
 100,328
1 month SOFR 
plus margin
23 monthly installments 
commencing from August 2022
-
 47,036
 69,172
Fixed rate
18 monthly installments from July 
2022 after 6 months grace period
Corporate Guarantee from John Keells 
Hotels PLC and Letter of Comfort from 
John Keells Holdings PLC 
 8,686
 19,504

292 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
Other long term employee benefit
A new Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTI) has been launched in 2018/19 for 
senior employees of the Group. The overall incentive was to will be paid 
in cash as a lump sum payment upon achievement of key performance 
indicators linked to the five-year strategic plan in place. 
The liability recognised in respect other long term employee benefits 
are measured as the present value of the estimated future cash outflows 
expected to be made by the Group in relation to the performance and 
the services of the relevant employees, up to the reporting date. 
The management has decided to cease the LTI plan due to failure in 
achieving overall key performance indicators linked to the five-year 
strategic plan by some business units. Therefore, respective provisions 
have been reversed in the current financial year.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
37. 	
INTEREST-BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS (CONTD.) 
37.2 	 Security and repayment terms (Contd.)
As at 31 March
Nominal 
Interest rate
Repayment terms
Assets Pledged and Collaterals
2023
In Rs.‘000s
2022
In Rs.‘000s
Waterfront Properties 
(Pvt) Ltd
3 month LIBOR 
plus margin
5-year loan with a 2-year grace 
period and back-ended capital 
payments.
WPL’s assets (other than the 
residential and office buildings), 
Sponsor support undertaking by 
JKH, Pledge of 14.5 Bn shares  
held by JKH in WPL
 74,330,204
 68,734,525
Market standard 
margin over 
interest rate on 
collateral
Repayment on maturity, June 2022
Pledged fixed deposits of John Keells 
Holdings PLC with a security cover 
of 1.1 times
-
 31,012,451 
Walkers Tours Ltd
Fixed rate
23 monthly installments 
commencing from September 
2021 after 6 months grace period
-
 164,360
 273,607 
Whittal Boustead 
(Travel) Ltd
364-days Treasury  
Bills rate plus  
margin
24 monthly installments 
commencing from March 2021 
after a 6 months grace period
-
 62,454
 103,971 
Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd
1 month SOFR 
plus margin
23 monthly installments 
commencing from August 2022
-
 10,070
 22,567 
Fixed rate
18 monthly installments 
commencing from July 2022 after 
6 months grace period
Rs.21.4 Mn Corporate Guarantee 
from John Keells Hotels PLC and 
Letter of Comfort from John Keells 
Holdings PLC 
 30,142
 44,326 
 172,618,318
199,546,346
* To be transitioned to 6-month SOFR plus margin and credit spread from December 2023.
38. 	
EMPLOYEE BENEFIT LIABILITIES
Accounting Policy
Employee contribution plans - EPF/ETF
Employees are eligible for Employees’ Provident Fund contributions 
and Employees’ Trust Fund contributions in line with respective statutes 
and regulations. The companies contribute the defined percentages of 
gross emoluments of employees to an approved Employees’ Provident 
Fund and to the Employees’ Trust Fund respectively, which are externally 
funded.
Employee defined benefit plan - gratuity
The liability recognised in the statement of financial position is the 
present value of the defined benefit obligation as at the reporting date 
using the projected unit credit method. Any actuarial gains or losses 
arising are recognised immediately in other comprehensive income.
Under the Payment of Gratuity Act No. 12 of 1983, the liability to an 
employee arises only on completion of 5 years of continued service. The 
obligation is not externally funded.
38.1 	 Employee benefit liabilities
 
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
Note
2023
2022
2023
2022
In Rs.'000s
 
Employee defined benefit plan - gratuity
 38.2 
2,513,093
 2,439,021 
219,756
 146,903 
Other long term employee benefit
 38.3 
46,539
 667,596 
-
 151,066 
At the end of the year
2,559,632
 3,106,617 
219,756
 297,969 

293
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
38.2 	 Employee defined benefit plan - gratuity
 
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2023
2022
2023
2022
In Rs.'000s
At the beginning of the year
2,439,021
 2,330,114 
146,903
 123,194 
Current service cost
222,064
 241,043 
15,205
 11,678 
Past service cost
-
 (15,538)
-
 (1,092)
Transfers
-
 - 
-
 891 
Interest cost on benefit obligation
203,311
 174,945 
12,421
 11,088 
Payments
(267,819)
 (269,012)
(3,886)
 (2,666)
(Gain)/Loss arising from changes in assumptions 
(81,295)
 (24,720)
49,113
 3,810 
Exchange differences
( 2,189)
 2,189 
-
 - 
At the end of the year
2,513,093
 2,439,021 
219,756
 146,903 
The expenses are recognised in the income statement in the following line items;
	 Cost of sales
183,435
165,036
3,543
 3,591 
	 Selling and distribution expenses
28,954
 34,795 
-
 - 
	 Administrative expenses
212,986
200,619
24,083
 18,083 
425,375
 400,450 
27,626
 21,674 
38.3 	 Other long term employee benefits
 
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2023
2022
2023
2022
In Rs.'000s
At the beginning of the year
667,596
 483,892 
151,006
 108,175 
Current service cost
(674,465)
 152,048 
(163,086)
 35,290 
Interest cost
53,408
 31,656 
12,080
 7,601 
At the end of the year
46,539
 667,596 
-
 151,066 
Accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions 
Employee benefit liability - gratuity
The employee benefit liability of the Group is based on the actuarial 
valuation carried out by independent actuarial specialists. The actuarial 
valuations are involve in making assumptions about discount rates and 
future salary increases. The complexity of the valuation, the underlying 
assumptions and its long term nature, the defined benefit obligation is 
highly sensitive to changes in these assumptions. All assumptions are 
reviewed at each reporting date. 
Under the Minimum Retirement Age of Workers Act No 28 of 2021, 
retirement benefit plan of the Group and the Company was amended 
due to the increase in retirement age.
The Management tested several scenarios based calculations on possible 
changes of the assumptions due to the prevailing macroeconomic 
conditions. Based on those calculations, the management has 
concluded that there is no material impact to retirement benefit 
obligation liability of the Group.   
The principal assumptions used in determining the cost of employee benefits were:
For the year ended 31 March
2023
2022
In Rs.'000s
Discount rate
18.00% -19.00%
8.00% -10.00%
Future salary increases
11.00%-15.00%
7.00% -9.00%
The adjusted treasury bond rate for the credit spread has been used as the discounted rate.

294 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
38. 	
EMPLOYEE BENEFIT LIABILITIES (CONTD.)
38.4 	 Sensitivity of assumptions used
A percentage change in the assumptions would have the following effects to employee defined benefit plan - gratuity.
 
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2023
2022
2023
2022
In Rs.'000s
Discount rate:
	 1% Increase
(104,429)
 (117,176)
(6,849)
 (5,798)
	 1% Decrease
91,414
 113,434 
7,311
 6,281 
Salary Increment rate:
	 1% Increase
100,305
 118,799 
7,899
 6,541 
	 1% Decrease
(114,064)
 (124,005)
(7,504)
 (6,141)
38.5 	 Maturity analysis of the payments 
The following payments are expected on employee benefit plan - gratuity in future years.
 
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2023
2022
2023
2022
In Rs.'000s
Within the next 12 months
151,479
 113,775 
-
 - 
Between 1 and 2 years
236,076
 228,446 
18,323
 13,253 
Between 2 and 5 years
1,042,794
 943,957 
176,201
 90,660 
Between 5 and 10 years
1,009,765
 965,951 
25,232
 42,990 
Beyond 10 years
72,979
 186,892 
-
 - 
Total expected payments
2,513,093
 2,439,021 
219,756
 146,903 
Weighted average duration (years) of defined benefit obligation
6.72
7.97
4.93
5.18
39. 	
NON CURRENT FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
Accounting policy
Group classifies all financial non current liabilities under non current financial liabilities which include forward contract liabilities and construction 
retention liabilities of the Waterfront integrated resort project.
 
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
Note
2023
2022
2023
2022
In Rs.'000s
 
Construction retention
 
 1,726,877 
 2,413,880 
-
 - 
Convertible debentures 
 39.1 
 18,380,148 
 -
 18,380,148 
-
 20,107,025 
 2,413,880 
 18,380,148 
-
39.1 	 Issue of unlisted convertible debentures to HWIC Asia Fund, a subsidiary of Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd
The Company raised foreign direct investments of Rs.27.06 billion through a private placement of unrated, unlisted, unsecured convertible debentures 
on 12 August 2022 at an issue price of Rs.130 per debenture to certain controlled affiliates (subsidiaries) of Fairfax Financial Holdings Limited. The date of 
maturity of the debentures is 12 August 2025 with HWIC having the option to convert each debenture to one new ordinary share of the Company during 
the conversion period from 12 February 2024 to 12 August 2025. .As per the SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments, the convertible debentures were contrasted 
against an equivalent plain debenture in order to segregate the liability and equity components associated with the transaction.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

295
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
40. 	
OTHER NON CURRENT LIABILITIES
Accounting policy
Group classifies all non-financial non current liabilities under other non current liabilities which include non refundable advances and deposits.
 
GROUP
As at 31 March
2023
2022
In Rs.'000s
Contract liabilities
 158,640 
 73,760 
Deposits
 103,366 
 96,183 
Other deferred liabilities
 24,230 
 50,260 
 286,236 
 220,203 
41. 	
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
Accounting policy 
Trade payables are the aggregate amount of obligations to pay for goods or services, that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business. Trade 
payables are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year.
 
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2023
2022
2023
2022
In Rs.'000s
Trade and other payables
 28,570,126 
 41,822,593 
 631,405 
 566,252 
Contract liabilities
 186,264 
 123,166 
 - 
 - 
Reinsurance payables
 626,885 
 1,219,314 
 - 
 - 
Advances and deposits
 483,007 
 304,334 
 - 
 - 
 29,866,282 
 43,469,407 
 631,405 
 566,252 
Trade and other payables are non-interest bearing and settled within one year. Reinsurance payables are settled within one year. For further explanation 
on the Group’s liquidity risk management process refer Note 11.2.2.
42. 	
SHORT TERM BORROWINGS
Accounting policy 
Short term borrowings are the interest bearing borrowings of the Group which fall due within 12 months from the end of the financial year. These are 
obtained for working capital requirements. 
 
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2023
2022
2023
2022
In Rs.'000s
Bank borrowings
 8,701,652 
 14,833,056 
 1,300,000 
 2,000,000 
 8,701,652 
 14,833,056 
 1,300,000 
 2,000,000 
43. 	
OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES 
Accounting policy
The Group classifies all non-financial current liabilities under other current liabilities.
 
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2023
2022
2023
2022
In Rs.'000s
Non refundable deposits
705,403
 627,277 
 - 
-
Contract liabilities
2,016,418
 2,093,394 
 - 
-
Other tax payables
2,469,758
 1,559,716 
 17,811 
-
 5,191,579 
 4,280,387 
 17,811 
-

296 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
44. 	
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties
The Group and the Company carried out transactions in the ordinary 
course of business with the following related entities. The list of Directors 
at each of the subsidiaries, joint venture and associate companies 
have been disclosed in the Group Directory under the Supplementary 
Information section of the Annual Report.
Governance structure, nature of the entity’s relationships, principal place 
of business and the country of incorporation have been disclosed in the 
corporate governance section and Group directory.
Transactions with related parties are carried out in the ordinary course 
of business. Outstanding current account balances at year end are 
unsecured, interest free and settlement occurs in cash.
The sales to and purchases from related parties are made on terms 
equivalent to those that prevail in arm's length transactions.
Non-recurrent related party transactions
There were no non-recurrent related party transactions which in 
aggregate value exceeds 10% of the equity or 5% of the total assets 
whichever is lower of the company as per 31 March 2022 audited 
financial statements, which required additional disclosures in the 
2022/2023 Annual Report under Colombo Stock Exchange listing Rule 
9.3.2 and Code of Best Practices on Related Party Transactions under the 
Securities and Exchange Commission Directive issued under Section 
13(c) of the Securities and Exchange Commission Act.
Recurrent related party transactions
There were no recurrent related party transactions which in aggregate value 
exceeds 10% of the consolidated revenue of the Group as per 31 March 
2022 audited financial Statements, which required additional disclosures in 
the 2022/2023 Annual Report under Colombo Stock Exchange listing Rule 
9.3.2 and Code of Best Practices on Related Party Transactions under the 
Securities and Exchange Commission Directive issued under Section 13(c) 
of the Securities and Exchange Commission Act.
44.1 	 Amounts due from related parties
 
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
Note
2023
2022
2023
2022
In Rs.'000s
 
Subsidiaries
44.5
 -
 - 
 938,444 
 531,375 
Equity accounted investees
 317,700
 196,394 
 239,172 
 129,324 
Key management personnel 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 317,700 
 196,394 
 1,177,616 
 660,699 
44.2 	 Amounts due to related parties
 
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
Note
2023
2022
2023
2022
In Rs.'000s
 
Subsidiaries
44.6
 - 
 - 
 58,244 
 20,912 
Equity accounted investees
 3,615 
 1,818 
 - 
 - 
Key management personnel 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3,615 
 1,818 
 58,244 
 20,912 

297
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
44.3 	 Transactions with related parties
 
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended/As at 31 March 
Note
2023
2022
2023
2022
In Rs.'000s
 
Subsidiaries
 	 Purchases of goods
-
-
17,865
 6,540 
 	 Rendering of services
 44.5 
-
-
1,788,455
 1,411,346 
 	 Receiving of services
 44.6 
-
-
624,506
 433,074 
 	 Rent paid
-
-
34,867
 31,611 
 	 Dividend received
-
-
4,697,143
 4,194,492 
Equity accounted investees
 Sale of goods
 18,861 
 9,567 
-
 - 
 Rendering of services
 44.5 
 1,243,441 
 693,777 
759,450
 461,150 
 Receiving of services
 311,256 
 199,477 
88
 115 
 Interest received
 44.4 
 1,096,370 
 160,859 
1,066,417
 96,108 
 Interest paid
 44.4 
 150,068 
 45,081 
7,991
 3 
 Loans received 
 - 
 1,000,000 
-
 - 
 Dividend received
-
-
5,937,857
 3,813,157 
Key management personnel (KMP)
 	 Sale of goods
-
-
-
-
Close family members of KMP
 	 Sale of goods
-
-
-
-
Companies controlled / jointly controlled / significantly 
	 Influenced by KMP and their close family members
	 Rendering of services
1,548
5,037
-
-
	 Receiving of services
37,151
14,374
-
-
Post employment benefit plan
 	 Contributions to the provident fund
 338,801
 287,558 
 91,504
 70,256 
44.4 	 Transactions with related parties - Associates
 
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 
2023
2022
2023
2022
In Rs.'000s
Nations Trust Bank PLC
Interest received 
1,096,370
 160,859 
1,066,417
 96,108 
Interest paid
150,068
 45,081 
7,991
 3 
The Group held interest bearing deposits of Rs.16,092 Mn (2022 - Rs.4,658 Mn) at Nations Trust Bank PLC as at 31 March 2023.

298 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
44. 	
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (CONTD.)
44.5 	 Related party transactions and balances 
 
COMPANY
Rendering of services
Amounts due from
For the year ended/As at 31 March 
In Rs.‘000s
2023
2022
2023
2022
Subsidiaries
Asian Hotels and Properties PLC
 65,000 
 59,879 
 8,653 
 2,229 
Beruwala Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
 15,816 
 13,894 
 1,973 
 1,324 
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC
 238,372 
 162,211 
 446,895 
 38,777 
Ceylon Holiday Resorts Ltd
 16,016 
 13,389 
 1,929 
 1,227 
Cinnamon Hotel Management Ltd
 79,973 
 62,927 
 22,321 
 7,005 
Fantasea World Investments (Pte) Ltd
 8,096 
 5,967 
 855 
 572 
Habarana Lodge Ltd
 13,322 
 11,576 
 1,579 
 1,119 
Habarana Walk Inn Ltd
 10,444 
 9,438 
 1,268 
 886 
Hikkaduwa Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
 13,288 
 11,438 
 1,643 
 1,077 
Infomate (Pvt) Ltd
 82,096 
 52,426 
 28,120 
 9,207 
JayKay Marketing Services (Pvt) Ltd
 518,560 
 407,653 
 204,090 
 363,075 
John Keells Information Technology (Pvt) Ltd
 91,625 
 74,360 
 39,038 
 - 
John Keells International (Pvt) Ltd
 7,886 
 6,330 
 8,497 
 - 
John Keells Logistics (Pvt) Ltd
 40,718 
 41,892 
 48,176 
 16,124 
John Keells Maldivian Resorts (Pte) Ltd
 4,356 
 4,042 
 531 
 352 
John Keells Office Automation (Pvt) Ltd
 42,348 
 37,875 
 31,906 
 17,478 
John Keells PLC
 21,897 
 18,343 
 2,426 
 - 
John Keells Stock Brokers (Pvt) Ltd
 13,870 
 12,131 
 13 
 - 
John Keells Teas Ltd 
 2,737 
 2,654 
 1,548 
 591 
John Keells Warehousing (Pvt) Ltd
 3,917 
 3,514 
 313 
 331 
Kandy Walk Inn Ltd
 12,584 
 11,109 
 1,478 
 969 
Keells Consultants (Pvt) Ltd
 4,852 
 4,131 
 1,347 
 - 
Keells Food Products PLC
 50,619 
 43,439 
 4,767 
 4,029 
Lanka Marine Services Ltd
 19,936 
 16,691 
 2,293 
 3,599 
Mack Air (Pvt) Ltd
 14,825 
 13,608 
 - 
 - 
Mackinnons Keells Ltd
 2,217 
 1,848 
 209 
 - 
Mackinnons Travels (Pvt) Ltd
 9,108 
 7,323 
 2,073 
 - 
Rajawella Holdings Ltd
 10,130 
 7,396 
 5,401 
 1,384 
Tea Small Holder Factories PLC
 4,289 
 2,776 
 1,230 
 11,550 
The Colombo Ice Company (Pvt) Ltd
 18,958 
 15,377 
 - 
 1,602 
Tranquility (Pte) Ltd
 10,547 
 13,205 
 1,820 
 1,267 
Trans Asia Hotels PLC
 45,785 
 41,694 
 7,741 
 227 
Travel Club (Pte) Ltd
 7,626 
 6,039 
 782 
 577 
Trinco Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
 10,600 
 9,152 
 1,312 
 848 
Union Assurance PLC
 103,778 
 85,098 
 15,094 
 8,939 
Walkers Tours Ltd
 37,410 
 31,807 
 5,017 
 2,272 
Waterfront Properties (Pvt) Ltd
 39,623 
 21,670 
 8,064 
 16,866 
Whittall Boustead (Pvt) Ltd
 32,592 
 26,931 
 6,671 
 1,883 
Whittall Boustead (Travel) Ltd
 9,310 
 7,543 
 830 
 1,677 
Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd
 11,642 
 9,428 
 1,307 
 870 
Other subsidiaries
 41,690 
 23,142 
 19,163 
 11,442 
 1,788,455 
 1,411,346 
 938,444 
 531,375 

299
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
 
COMPANY
Rendering of services
Amounts due from
For the year ended/As at 31 March 
In Rs.‘000s
2023
2022
2023
2022
Joint ventures
DHL Keells (Pvt) Ltd
 718,950 
 441,876 
167,528
 118,325 
Braybrooke Residential Properties (Pvt) Ltd
 1,168 
 736 
 400 
 105 
Inchcape Mackinnon Mackenzie Shipping (Pvt) Ltd
 834 
 544 
 127 
 703 
Sentinel Reality (Pvt) Ltd
 - 
 - 
 1 
 - 
Associates
 
Fairfirst Insurance Ltd
 - 
 - 
 - 
 318 
Nations Trust Bank PLC
 - 
 - 
 1,899 
 1,559 
Saffron Aviation (Pvt) Ltd
 3,776 
 3,172 
5,077
 377 
South Asia Gateway Terminals ( Pvt ) Ltd
 10,461 
 5,315 
 2,542 
 6,990 
Capital Hotel Holdings (Pvt) Ltd
 11,337 
 9,507 
 1,656 
 938 
Colombo West International Terminal (Pvt) Ltd
 12,924 
 - 
 59,942 
-
 759,450 
 461,150 
 239,172 
 129,324 
44.6 	 Related party transactions and balances 
 
COMPANY
 Receiving of services
Amounts due to
For the year ended/As at 31 March 
In Rs.‘000s
2023
2022
2023
2022
Subsidiaries
Asian Hotels and Properties PLC
 15,315 
 192 
 7,563 
 - 
Infomate (Pvt) Ltd
 8,435 
 5,890 
 3,356 
 - 
Trans Asia Hotels PLC
 6,890 
 - 
 - 
 - 
John Keells Information Technologies (Pvt) Ltd 
 492,765 
 399,598 
 23,327 
 3,676 
John Keells Singapore (Pte) Ltd
 40,285 
 13,621 
 - 
 2,818 
Mackinnons Travels (Pvt) Ltd
 44,596 
-
 - 
-
Whittall Boustead (Pvt) Ltd
 10,055 
 8,916 
 - 
 - 
Other subsidiaries
14,787
 4,857 
 23,998 
 14,418 
 624,506 
 433,074 
 58,244 
 20,912 
Joint ventures
DHL Keells (Pvt) Ltd
 88 
 115 
 - 
 - 
 88 
 115 
 - 
 - 
Details of inter-company assets pledged and given as collateral for loans and borrowings can be found in Interest-bearing loans and borrowings  
Note 37.2 in the financial statements.

300 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
44.7 	 Compensation of key management personnel
Key management personnel include members of the Board of Directors of John Keells Holdings PLC and its subsidiary companies.
 
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
2023
2022
2023
2022
In Rs.'000s
Short-term employee benefits
691,809
436,828
215,819
122,198
Post employment benefits
13,189
 8,227
4,560
 2,589
Share based payments
114,361
 69,532
38,016
 28,385
819,359
514,587
258,395
153,172
Directors’ interest in the employee share option plan of the Company
As at 31 March 2023, the executive members of the Board of Directors held options to purchase ordinary shares under the employee share option plan 
as follows;
 
COMPANY
2023
2022
Expiry date
Adjusted exercise
price 
Rs.
Number of shares
outstanding at 
the end of period
Number of shares
exercisable at the
end of period
Number of shares
outstanding at the
end of period
Number of shares 
exercisable at the 
end of period
02.07.2022
173.30
-
-
              725,000 
         725,000 
21.06.2023
154.10
880,000
880,000
              880,000 
         660,000 
30.06.2024
136.97
880,000
660,000
              880,000 
         440,000 
30.06.2025
132.86
880,000
440,000
              880,000 
         220,000 
30.06.2026
136.64
880,000
220,000
              880,000 
                  -   
30.06.2027
121.91
880,000
-
-
                  -   
No share options have been granted to the non-executive members of the Board of Directors under the employee share option plan.
44. 	
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (CONTD.)

301
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
OTHER DISCLOSURES
45. 	
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
Accounting policy
Provisions, contingent assets and contingent liabilities 
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation 
(legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that an 
outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required 
to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the 
amount of the obligation. Where the Group expects some or all of a 
provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, 
the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when the 
reimbursement is virtually certain.
The expense relating to any provision is presented in the income 
statement net of any reimbursement.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are 
discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, where appropriate, 
the risks specific to the liability. Where discounting is used, the increase in 
the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost. 
All contingent liabilities are disclosed as a note to the financial statements 
unless the outflow of resources is remote. A contingent liability recognised 
in a business combination is initially measured at its fair value. 
Subsequently, it is measured at the higher of: the amount that would 
be recognised in accordance with the general guidance for provisions 
above (LKAS 37) or the amount initially recognised less, when 
appropriate, cumulative amortisation recognised in accordance with 
the guidance for revenue recognition (SLFRS 15). Contingent assets are 
disclosed, where inflow of economic benefit is probable. 
The contingent liabilities of the Company and the Group as at 31 March 
2023, relates to the following:
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC (JKH)
The contingent liability of the Company as at 31 March 2023, relates to 
the following: 
Income tax assessment relating to year of assessment 2006/7. 
The Company has lodged appeals against the assessment and is 
contesting it under appellate procedure.
Having discussed with independent legal and tax experts and based 
on information available, the contingent liability as at 31 March 2023, is 
estimated at Rs.54 Mn.
CEYLON COLD STORES PLC (CCS)
The contingent liability of CCS as at 31 March 2023, relates to the 
Following:
Income tax assessments relating to years of assessment 2011/12 to 
2013/14. 
The company has lodged appeals against the assessments and is 
contesting these under appellate procedure.
Having discussed with independent legal and tax experts and based on 
the information available, the contingent liability as at 31 March 2023 is 
estimated at Rs.36.5 Mn.
LANKA MARINE SERVICES (PVT) LTD (LMS)
The contingent liability of LMS as at 31 March 2023, relates to the 
following:
Assessment of Turnover tax levied by the Western Provincial Council for 
the period from 1 January 2003 to 31 December 2004.
The company has lodged appeals against the assessment and is 
contesting these under appellate procedure.
Income tax assessment relating to year of assessment 2001/2, 2007/8, 
2008/9 and 2011/12
The company has appealed against the assessments on the grounds 
that the sale of bunker to foreign-going ships is an export, which is 
liable to concessionary rates of taxes, but this has been disputed by the 
Department of Inland Revenue (IRD). The Court of Appeal varied the 
terms on which TAC/Board of Review (BOR) determined the matter but 
affirmed the decision by the BOR/TAC which was in favour of the IRD. 
The company has lodged an appeal to the Supreme Court, and having 
considered the matter, the Supreme Court has granted leave to proceed.
Income tax assessment relating to years of assessment from 2009/10, 
2010/11, 2012/13 to 2018/19. The company has lodged appeals against 
the assessments and is contesting these under the appellate procedure.
Apart from the procedural grounds of appeal, the substantive issue 
under dispute is the position taken by the company that the sale of 
bunker to foreign ships is an export and is entitled to the exemptions 
concessions attached thereto.
Having discussed with independent legal and tax experts and based 
on information available, the contingent liability as at 31 March 2023, is 
estimated at Rs.1,293 Mn.
MACKINNONS TRAVELS (PVT) LTD (MTL)
The contingent liability of MTL as at 31 March 2023, relates to the 
Following:
Value Added Tax assessments relating to the periods from 1 April 2009 to 
31 March 2011 and 1 January 2017 to 30 November 2019. 
The company has lodged appeals against the assessments and is 
contesting these under appellate procedure.
Having discussed with independent legal and tax experts and based 
on information available, the contingent liability as at 31 March 2023 is 
estimated at Rs.108 Mn.
CINNAMON HOTEL MANAGEMENT LTD (CHML)
The contingent liability of CHML as at 31 March 2023, relates to the 
following:
Income tax assessment relating to years of assessment 2018/19.
The company has lodged an appeal against the assessment and is 
contesting these under appellate procedure.
Having discussed with independent legal and tax experts and based on 
the information available, the contingent liability as at 31 March 2023 is 
estimated at Rs.26.4 Mn.

302 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
TRANS ASIA HOTELS PLC (TAH)
The contingent liability of TAH as at 31 March 2023, relates to the 
following:
Income tax assessments relating to years of assessments 2012/13 to 
2017/18.
The company has lodged appeals against the assessments and is 
contesting these under appellate procedure.
Having discussed with independent legal and tax experts and based on 
the information available, the contingent liability as at 31 March 2023 is 
estimated at Rs.192.1 Mn.
UNION ASSURANCE PLC (UA)
The contingent liability of UA as at 31 March 2023, relates to the 
following:
Value Added Tax assessments relating to the periods from 1 April 2016 to 
31 March 2019.
The company has lodged appeals against the assessments and is 
contesting these under appellate procedure. Having discussed with 
independent legal and tax experts and based on information available, 
the contingent liability as at 31 March 2023, is estimated at Rs.13.9 Mn.
Financial Services VAT and NBT assessments relating to the periods from 
1 January 2016 to 31 December 2018.
The company has lodged appeals against the assessments and is 
contesting these under appellate procedure. Having discussed with 
independent legal and tax experts and based on information available, 
the contingent liability as at 31 March 2023, is estimated at Rs.643 Mn.
Income Tax Assessments received for years of assessments 2010/11, 
2011/12, 2012/13, 2013/14, 2014/15, 2015/16,2016/17, 2017/18 and 
2018/19. 
The assessments were raised for the above years of assessments by 
making life insurance income liable to pay income taxes of Rs.13 Mn, 
Rs.132 Mn, Rs.411 Mn, Rs.175 Mn, Rs.887 Mn, Rs.832 Mn,  
Rs.472 Mn, Rs.749 Mn and Rs.701 Mn respectively. The company has 
lodged valid appeals against the assessments raised and is contesting 
these under the appellate procedure.
Having discussed with independent legal and tax experts and based on 
information available, the Directors are of the view that the company has 
followed due process and acted in accordance with the prevailing laws 
in its tax submissions for years of assessment from 2010/11 to 2017/18 
and accordingly have concluded that the above assessments have no 
rationale or basis in law.
46. 	
CAPITAL AND OTHER COMMITMENTS
 
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2023
2022
2023
2022
In Rs.'000s
Capital commitments approved but not provided for
18,685,499
28,418,998
-
-
Guarantees
3,301,937
3,267,348
2,620,621
1,947,000
21,987,436
31,686,346
2,620,621
 1,947,000
47. 	
ASSETS PLEDGED
Assets pledged for facilities obtained are given in Note 37.2 to the financial statements. 
48. 	
EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD
The Board of Directors of the Company has declared a final dividend of Rs.0.50 per share for the financial year ended 31 March 2023. As required by 
section 56 (2) of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, the Board of Directors has confirmed that the Company satisfies the solvency test in accordance 
with section 57 of the Companies Act No.07 of 2007, and has obtained a certificate from auditors, prior to declaring a final dividend which is to be paid 
on or before 21 June 2023.
In accordance with LKAS 10, Events after the reporting period, the final dividend has not been recognised as a liability in the financial statements as at 
31 March 2023.

EVOLVING
304 History of John Keells Group    305 Decade at a Glance    306 Economic Value Statement 
308 Indicative US Dollar Financial Statements    310 Group Real Estate Portfolio 
312 Glossary    313 Independent Assurance Statement on Non-Financial Reporting 
316 Group Directory    326 GRI - Disclosure 207-4    328 GRI Content Index    339 Notice of Meeting
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION

304 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
HISTORY OF THE JOHN KEELLS GROUP
1870-1970
1870 – Two English brothers, George and Edwin 
John set up E. John & Co, a firm of produce and 
exchange brokers.
1948 –Merged with two other London based tea 
brokers, thereby evolving into a private liability 
company by the name of E. John, Thompson, 
White & Company Ltd.
1960 – Amalgamated with Keell and Waldock 
Ltd, another long-established produce, share and 
freight broking company. The company changed 
its name to John Keell Thompson White Ltd.
1971-1990
1973 – Acquired Walkers Tours and Travels 
(Ceylon) Ltd, a leading inbound tour operator.
1974 – The firm became a Rupee quoted public 
company, with its name changed to John Keells 
Ltd.
1986 – A newly incorporated John Keells 
Holdings (JKH) acquired a controlling stake in 
John Keells Limited and obtained a quotation 
on the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) amidst a 
heavily over-subscribed public share issue.
1991-2000
1991 – Acquired the Whittalls Group of 
Companies, thereby gaining control of Ceylon 
Cold Stores, Ceylon Holiday Resorts, and Union 
Assurance. The acquisition was one of the largest 
deals of the time.
1994 – JKH became the first Sri Lankan company 
to obtain a listing overseas, by way of issuing 
Global Depository Receipts (GDRs) on the 
Luxembourg Stock Exchange.
1996 – Velidhu Resort Hotel, an 80-roomed island 
resort in the Maldives, was acquired. This marked 
the Group’s first major investment overseas.
1999 – Nations Trust Bank (NTB) was established, 
through a joint venture with the International 
Finance Corporation (IFC) and Central Finance 
Co. Ltd. The South Asia Gateway Terminal (SAGT) 
commenced operations at the Port of Colombo.
2000 – JKH became the first Sri Lankan company 
to obtain the SL-AAA credit rating from Fitch 
Ratings. 
2001-2007
2003 – JKH acquired Asian Hotels and Properties, 
thereby gaining control of 40% of the 5-star room 
capacity in Colombo.
2004 – John Keells Hotels Limited (KHL) was 
created as a holding company for all Group 
resorts. The Group’s CSR arm, the John Keells 
Social Responsibility Foundation was established 
as a non-profit organisation.
2005 – The Group launched its hotel brand 
‘Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts’. JKH entered into an 
MoU to develop a third resort in the Maldives. 
Keells Plantations was divested, marking the 
Group’s exit from the ownership of plantations. 
JKH also entered into the BPO space through a 
joint venture with Raman Roy Associates.
2006 – The Group acquired a lease on Dhonveli 
Beach and Spa and Ellaidhoo Tourist Resort in the 
Maldives. The Group also increased its stake in 
SAGT by 8% to 34%. John Keells Holdings Ltd was 
renamed John Keells Holdings PLC.
2007 - Cinnamon Island Alidhoo commenced 
operations. The Group signed a long-term 
funding arrangement amounting to USD 75 
million with IFC.
2008-2010
2008 - JKH acquired a further 8.4% in SAGT and 
also increased stakes in UA, CCS, JKL and KFPL.
2009 - JKH’s market capitalisation surpassed USD 
1 billion. 
2010 - The head lease of Alidhoo Island was 
divested while the head lease of Dhonveli 
Island was acquired for a period of 18 years. 
Construction of 'OnThree20', a 475-unit 
apartment complex in the heart of Colombo 
commenced. JKH increased its stake in UA to 
95.6%.
2011-2014
2011/12 - 'The Emperor' apartment project at 
Crescat City, Colombo reached completion.
2012/13 - 'Cinnamon Bey', a 200 room five-star 
resort was launched. 'K-Zone', a 140,000 sq. ft. 
mall was opened in Ja-Ela, Colombo. Keells 
Food Products PLC and Union Assurance PLC 
successfully raised Rs. 1.2 billion and Rs. 720 
million respectively, via rights issues.
2013/14 - The market capitalisation of JKH 
exceeded USD 2 billion for the first time in the 
Group’s history. The 'Waterfront' integrated resort 
project, referred to as ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated 
Resort’ at present, was announced to the public.
2014/15 - 'Cinnamon Red Colombo', the first 
select service hotel in Sri Lanka, was launched. 
The ’OnThree20‘ residential development project 
was successfully completed. Union Assurance 
was segregated as per a regulatory directive, and 
the General Insurance segment was divested. 
2015 - PRESENT
2015/16 - Waterfront Properties (Private) 
Limited raised the necessary debt funding for 
the 'Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort' project, 
by way of the largest syndicated debt facility 
obtained by a local firm. A controlling stake in 
Rajawella Holdings Ltd (RHL) was acquired for 
Rs. 1.04 billion. The Group raised Rs. 8 billion by 
converting 50 million warrants, '7th Sense' on 
Gregory’s Road, a high end, niche, residential 
development was completed.
2017/18 - JMSL launched a new store format for 
its 'Keells' supermarkets. NTB launched 'FriMi', the 
country’s first digital bank, enabling the opening 
of a bank account through a smart device. JKH 
launched 'TRI-ZEN', an 891-apartment joint 
venture residential development.
2018/19 - The new ice cream factory was 
completed in Seethawaka. The 'Keells' brand 
was launched with the completion of a refit and 
rebranding across all supermarket outlets. The 
re-construction and refurbishment of 'Cinnamon 
Bentota Beach', formerly 'Bentota Beach Hotel', 
commenced in order to establish it as the 
'Cinnamon' brand's flagship property.
2019/20 - CY2020 marked a significant 
milestone for the Group, given 150 years of 
being in business. OCTAVE, the Group's Data 
and Advanced Analytics Centre of Excellence 
was formally initiated as a division under JKH. 
The newly reconstructed 159-room ‘Cinnamon 
Bentota Beach’ commenced operations as the 
Group's flagship 'Cinnamon' hotel. UA underwent 
a brand change, centred around the theme, 'Your 
Life, Our Strength'.
2020/21 - JKH entered into a ten-year financing 
agreement with the IFC for USD 175 million. A 
consortium consisting of Adani Ports and Special 
Economic Zone Limited (APSEZ) and JKH, in the 
capacity as the local partner, received a letter 
of intent (LOI) to develop and operate the West 
Container Terminal-1 at the Port of Colombo as 
a public private partnership (PPP) project. The 
Group instituted a Diversity, Equity and Inclusion 
programme towards increasing the diversity of 
our workforce and launched the 'ONE JKH' brand 
with several initiatives aimed at increasing critical 
diversity metrics across the Group. The Group 
established a goal of increasing the participation 
of women in the workforce up to 40% by the end 
of 2025/26, as a step towards achieving gender 
parity in the workforce.
2021/22 - JKH raised funds through a private 
placement of ordinary shares for a maximum 
cumulative amount of the LKR equivalent of USD 
80 million to the Asian Development Bank (ADB) 
in two phases, in which Phase I was completed 
in January 2022 and USD 50 million was raised. 
JMSL launched a new concept ‘Keells’ outlet at 
Lauries Road, Colombo which utilises innovative 
technology features such as ‘Scan & Go’ self-
checkouts. The build, operate transfer (BOT) 
agreement for the development West Container 
Terminal-1 (WCT-1) was signed. Waterfront 
Properties (Private) Limited, the project company 
of ‘Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort’ refinanced 
the USD 395 million syndicated loan.

305
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
DECADE AT A GLANCE
31 March
Rs. Mn
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
2018
2017
2016
2015
2014
OPERATING RESULTS
Group revenue
 276,640  218,075  127,676  138,956 
 135,456 
 121,215 
 106,273 
 93,710 
 91,852 
 86,706 
EBIT
 40,392 
 34,359 
 7,931 
 15,508 
 20,198 
 28,155 
 23,324 
 20,192 
 19,226 
 16,537 
Finance cost
 (17,803)
 (7,035)
 (4,669)
 (3,166)
 (2,722)
 (521)
 (436)
 (994)
 (668)
 (1,217)
Share of results of equity accounted 
investees (net of tax) 
 7,574 
6,746
 4,159 
 4,466 
 4,727 
 3,596 
 3,303 
 2,781 
 2,778 
 3,089 
Profit before tax 
 22,589 
 27,324 
 5,445 
 12,403 
 18,616 
 27,634 
 22,888 
 19,198 
 18,557 
 15,320 
Tax expense
 (3,693)
 (6,882)
 (1,494)
 (2,662)
 (2,378)
 (4,515)
 (4,771)
 (3,406)
 (2,812)
 (2,362)
Profit after tax
 18,896 
 20,443 
 3,951 
 9,741 
 16,237 
 23,120 
 18,117 
 15,792 
 15,745 
 12,958 
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent
 18,174 
 20,213 
 4,772 
 9,414 
 15,254 
 21,021 
 16,275 
 14,070 
 14,348 
 11,721 
Non-controlling interests
 722 
 230 
 (821)
 327 
 983 
 2,099 
 1,842 
 1,722 
 1,397 
 1,237 
 18,896 
 20,443 
 3,951 
 9,741 
 16,237 
 23,120 
 18,117 
 15,792 
 15,745 
 12,958 
CAPITAL EMPLOYED
Stated capital
 73,188 
 73,188 
 63,102 
 62,881 
 62,806 
 62,802 
 62,790 
 58,702 
 50,703 
 49,749 
Capital reserves and other components 
of equity
 146,091  129,011 
 72,403 
 66,085 
 58,646 
 49,852 
 38,652 
 28,715 
 24,501 
 21,845 
Revenue reserves
 121,743  109,087 
 90,652 
 87,885 
 82,834 
 87,266 
 77,193 
 67,565 
 62,594 
 51,304 
 341,022  311,286  226,157  216,851 
 204,286 
 199,920 
 178,635 
 154,982 
 137,798 
 122,898 
Non-controlling interest
 19,396 
 18,805
 16,830 
 26,872 
 26,072 
 24,944 
 15,696 
 13,499 
 12,279 
 11,421 
Total equity
 360,418  330,091  242,987  243,723 
 230,358 
 224,864 
 194,331 
 168,481 
 150,077 
 134,319 
Total debt
 264,060  268,228  172,904  100,907 
 54,513 
 29,722 
 22,766 
 20,750 
 23,934 
 26,139 
 624,478  598,319  415,891  344,630 
 284,871 
 254,586 
 217,097 
 189,231 
 174,011 
 160,458 
ASSETS EMPLOYED
Property, plant and equipment (PP&E)
 362,097  124,348  113,077  111,534 
 97,688 
 87,260 
 64,396 
 52,737 
 49,563 
 47,406 
Non-current assets other than PP&E
 199,604  354,518  257,226  204,360 
 170,687 
 136,427 
 107,912 
 93,376 
 78,030 
 71,969 
Current assets
 182,806  238,929  166,491  121,050 
 95,421 
 98,762 
 104,964 
 94,863 
 90,493 
 82,206 
Liabilities net of debt
 (120,028)  (119,476)  (120,903)
 (92,314)
 (78,925)
 (67,862)
 (60,175)
 (51,745)
 (44,075)
 (41,123)
 624,478  598,319  415,891  344,630 
 284,871 
 254,587 
 217,097 
 189,231 
 174,011 
 160,458 
CASH FLOW
Net cash flows from operating activities
 13,281 
30,440
13,825
 (10,350)
(4,743)
 16,012 
 21,020 
 20,513 
 20,855 
 8,041 
Net cash flows from / (used in) investing 
activities
 (78,889)
39,363
 (44,944)
 (27,039)
 (8,452)
 (16,640)
 (17,670)
 (9,567)
 (1,255)
 (19,710)
 Net cash flows from / (used in) financing 
activities
 (28,646)
 31,693 
 55,427 
 18,431 
 (11,000)
 (4,587)
 (4,105)
 (7,717)
 (4,838)
 25,446 
Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash 
equivalents
 (94,254)  101,495 
 24,308 
 (18,959)
 (14,709)
 (5,215)
 (755)
 3,229 
 14,762 
 13,777 
KEY INDICATORS
Basic earnings per share (Rs.)
 13.12 
 15.13 
 3.62 
 7.14 
 11.13 
 15.2 
 11.9 
 10.5 
 12.6 
10.5
Interest cover (no. of times)
 2.3 
4.9
 1.7 
 4.9 
 7.8 
 54 
 52.8 
51.5
 27.7 
 13.6 
Net assets per share* (Rs.) 
 246.2 
 224.8 
 163.3 
156.6 
 147.5 
 144.4 
 129.0 
 111.9 
 99.5 
 88.7 
Enterprise value (EV)
357,609
311,951
 244,679  186,236 
 210,020 
 187,926 
136.022
 124,182 
 155,675 
 124,182 
EV / EBITDA
 7.7 
 10.7 
 15.7 
 9.2 
 8.5 
 5.8 
 5.0 
 5.0 
 6.6 
 10.0 
ROE (%)
 5.6 
 7.5 
 2.2 
 4.5 
 7.5 
 11.1 
 9.8 
 9.6 
 11.0 
11.0
Debt / equity ratio (%)
 73.3 
81.3
 71.2 
 41.4 
 23.7 
 13.2 
 11.7 
 12.3 
 15.9 
 19.5 
Net debt excl. leases (cash)/Equity (%)
 35.91 
 23.5 
 20.0 
 14.0 
 1.9 
 (14.9)
 (28.5)
 (30.8)
 (28.8)
 (23.2)
Dividend payout (Rs.Mn)
 2,770 
 2,012 
 1,978 
 4,614 
 8,186 
 8,325 
 7,280 
 8,038 
 3,476 
 3,267 
Current ratio (no. of times)
 2.0 
1.8
 2.3 
 2.1 
 1.7 
 3.0 
 3.7 
 4.0 
 2.6 
 2.4 
Market price per share unadjusted (Rs.)
 140.0 
145.0
 148.5 
 115.4 
 156.0 
 159.6 
 137.9 
 148.0 
 199.4 
 227.0 
Market price per share diluted (Rs.)
 140.0 
145.0
 148.5 
 115.4 
 156.0 
 159.6 
 137.9 
 129.5 
 152.7 
 173.8 
Revenue growth rate (%)
 26.9 
70.8
 (8.1)
 2.6 
 11.8 
14.1
13.4
1.6
5.9
4.1
USD closing rate (Rs.)
 329.5 
305.0
 200.3 
 189.6 
 175.5 
155.9
151.9
147.7
133.5
130.7
USD average rate (Rs.)
 360.4 
208.3
 189.0 
 179.4 
 168.6 
153.6
148.0
139.2
131.2
130.1
* 	
Net assets per share has been calculated, for all periods, based on the net assets of the Group and number of shares in issue as at 31 March 2023.

306 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
ECONOMIC VALUE STATEMENT
 
Transportation
Consumer Foods
Retail
Leisure
Property
For the year ended 
31 March 
Rs.Mn
2023
2022
2023
2022
2023
2022
2023
2022
2023
2022
Direct economic value 
generated
 Revenue 
 74,538 
 32,550 
 34,143 
 23,008 
 109,006 
 91,056 
 43,032 
 20,593 
 2,824 
 36,350 
 Finance income 
 265 
 141 
 884 
 635 
 315 
 332 
 1,726 
 545 
 519 
 328 
 Share of results of 
associates 
 5,775 
 3,680 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (20)
 (35)
 (1,128)
 825 
 Profit on sale of assets 
& other income 
 192 
 640 
 832 
 535 
 2,396 
 2,222 
 785 
 501 
 14 
 24 
 Valuation gain/loss 
on IP 
 - 
 - 
 24 
 17 
 (3)
 - 
 201 
 105 
 525 
 (4,288)
 80,770 
 37,011 
 35,883 
 24,195 
 111,714 
 93,610 
 45,724 
 21,709 
 2,754 
 33,239 
 Economic value 
distributed 
 Operating costs 
 66,678 
 34,219 
 25,805 
 15,235 
 96,568 
 83,695 
26,441 
 13,098 
 3,406 
 33,206 
 Employee wages & 
benefits 
 756 
 672 
 3,948 
 3,307 
 5,537 
 4,689 
 7,771 
 4,327 
 1,193 
 448 
 Payments to providers 
of funds 
 3,447 
 825 
 2,630 
 1,898 
 5,097 
 2,775 
 4,527 
 994 
 330 
 300 
 Payments to 
government 
 572 
 288 
 968 
 1,160 
 147 
 780 
 1,205 
 325 
 79 
 102 
 Community 
investments 
 16 
 7 
 27 
 20 
 29 
 23 
 24 
 7 
 1 
 4 
 71,469 
 36,011 
 33,378 
 21,620 
 107,378 
 91,962 
39,968 
 18,751 
 5,009 
 34,060 
 Economic value 
retained 
 Depreciation 
 187 
 201 
 1,026 
 940 
 1,642 
 1,340 
 3,080 
 2,230 
63 
 57 
 Amortisation 
 84 
 60 
 60 
 45 
 1,513 
 1,282 
 2,847 
 1,706 
 27 
 28 
 Profit after dividends 
 9,030 
 739 
 1,419 
 1,590 
 1,181 
 (974)
 (171)
 (978)
 (2,345)
 (906)
 Retained for 
reinvestment / 
growth 
 9,301 
 1,000 
 2,505 
 2,575 
 4,336 
 1,648 
 5,756 
 2,958 
 (2,255)
 (821)
Above data has been derived from the audited Financial Statements that were prepared based on Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRS/LKAS). 
This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option

307
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
Financial Services
Others
Total
Eliminations/
Adjustments
Group Total
2023
2022
2023
2022
2023
2022
2023
2022
2023
%
2022
%
 16,204 
 15,686 
 10,537 
 6,745 
 290,284 
 225,988 
(13,644)
 (7,913)
 276,640 
 87.75 
 218,075 
 85.80 
 9,102 
 5,778 
 27,362 
 32,441 
 40,173 
 40,200 
 (13,273)
 (9,394)
 26,900 
 8.53 
 30,806 
 12.12 
 2,947 
 2,276 
 - 
 - 
 7,574 
 6,746 
 - 
 - 
 7,574 
 2.40 
 6,746 
 2.65 
 93 
 28 
 246 
 260 
 4,558 
 4,210 
 (1,297)
 (1,595)
 3,261 
 1.03 
 2,615 
 1.03 
 - 
 - 
 132 
 81 
 879 
 (4,085)
 - 
 - 
 879 
 0.29 
 (4,085)
 (1.61)
 28,346 
 23,768 
 38,277 
 39,527 
 343,468 
 273,059 
(28,214)
 (18,902)
315,254 
 100.00 
 254,157 
 100.00 
 19,328 
 14,958 
16,420 
 13,056 
 254,646 
 207,467 
(17,708)
 (11,790)
236,938 
 75.16 
 195,677 
 76.99 
 1,670 
 1,647 
2,655
 2,245 
23,530 
 17,335 
-
 - 
23,530 
 7.46 
 17,335 
 6.82 
 323 
 1,898 
 12,679 
 5,690 
 29,033 
 14,380 
 (7,736)
 (5,100)
 21,297 
 6.76 
 9,280 
 3.65 
 1,079 
 680 
 2,457 
 1,143 
 6,507 
 4,478 
 - 
 - 
 6,507 
 2.06 
 4,478 
 1.76 
 6 
 1 
 190 
 97 
 293 
 159 
 - 
 - 
 293 
 0.09 
 159 
 0.06 
 22,406 
 19,184 
 34,401 
 22,231 
 314,009 
 243,819 
 (25,444)
 (16,890)
 288,565 
 91.53 
 226,929 
 89.29 
 119 
 100 
 164 
 147 
 6,281 
 5,015 
 - 
 - 
 6,281 
 1.99 
 5,015 
 1.97 
 420 
 374 
 53 
 51 
5,004 
 3,546 
 - 
 - 
5,004 
 1.59 
 3,546 
 1.40 
 5,401 
 4,110 
 3,659 
 17,098 
 18,174 
 20,679 
 (2,770)
 (2,012)
 15,404 
 4.89 
 18,667 
 7.34 
 5,940 
 4,584 
3,876 
 17,296 
29,459 
 29,240 
 (2,770)
 (2,012)
 26,689 
 8.47 
 27,228 
 10.71 

308 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
INDICATIVE US DOLLAR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
INCOME STATEMENT
FOR INFORMATION PURPOSES ONLY
 
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
2023
2022
2023
2022
In USD '000s
Continuing operations 
Revenue from contracts with customers
 791,160 
 665,079 
 7,720 
 6,150 
Revenue from Insurance Contracts
 48,414 
 49,920 
 - 
 - 
Total Revenue
 839,574 
 714,999 
 7,720 
 6,150 
Cost of sales
 (689,500)
 (591,574)
 (3,541)
 (3,558)
Gross profit
 150,074
 123,425
 4,179
 2,592
Dividend income
 - 
 - 
 32,276 
 26,255 
Other operating income
 9,896 
 8,573 
 125 
 168 
Selling and distribution expenses
 (25,087)
 (18,796)
 - 
 - 
Administrative expenses
 (66,549)
 (48,402)
 (6,334)
 (4,207)
Other operating expenses
 (29,820)
 (40,839)
 (2,271)
 (1,687)
Results from operating activities
 38,514
23,961
 27,975
 23,121
Finance cost
 (54,030)
 (23,065)
 (26,643)
 (9,725)
Finance income
 81,638 
 101,004 
 49,554 
 79,339 
Change in insurance contract liabilities
 (23,218)
 (21,037)
 - 
 - 
Change in fair value of investment property
 2,666 
 (13,393)
 - 
 - 
Share of results of equity accounted investees (net of tax)
 22,985 
22,118
 - 
 - 
Profit before tax 
 68,555 
 89,588 
 50,886 
 92,735 
Tax expense
 (11,209)
 (22,563)
 (6,245)
 (12,782)
Profit for the year 
 57,346 
 67,025 
 44,641 
 79,953 
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent
 55,154 
 66,272 
Non-controlling interests
 2,192 
 753
 57,346 
 67,025
Earnings per share
Basic earnings per ordinary share
0.04
0.05
Diluted earnings per ordinary share
0.04
0.05
This information does not constitute a full set of financial statements in compliance with SLFRS/LKAS. The above should be read together with the 
Auditors' opinion and the notes to the financial statements. Exchange rates prevailing at year end USD/Rs.329.5 (2022 - 305) have been used to convert 
the income statement and statement of financial position. 

309
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION 
FOR INFORMATION PURPOSES ONLY
 
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2023
2022
2023
2022
In USD '000s
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment
 1,098,929 
 407,697 
 426 
 273 
Right- of - use assets
 164,446 
 175,349 
Investment property
 100,241 
 100,353 
 - 
 - 
Intangible assets
 17,580 
 17,703 
 191 
 309 
Investments in subsidiaries 
 - 
 - 
 601,137 
 383,497 
Investments in equity accounted investees
 116,802 
 111,035 
 49,219 
 43,481 
Non-current financial assets
 194,103 
 159,641 
 13,369 
 10,108 
Deferred tax assets
 7,837 
 5,097 
 - 
 - 
Other non-current assets
 4,769 
 593,180 
 382 
 393 
 1,704,707 
 1,570,055 
 664,724 
 438,061 
Current assets
Inventories
 118,648 
 118,770 
 - 
 - 
Trade and other receivables
 65,275 
 90,149 
 630 
 341 
Amounts due from related parties
 964 
 644 
 3,574 
 2,166 
Other current assets
 44,220 
 39,064 
 5,146 
 2,677 
Short term investments
 249,535 
 363,021 
 174,426 
 275,320 
Cash in hand and at bank
 76,155 
 171,726 
 24,983 
 89,712 
 554,797 
 783,374 
 208,759 
 370,216 
Total assets
 2,259,504
 2,353,429
 873,483
 808,277
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent
Stated capital
 222,118 
 239,960 
 222,118 
 239,960 
Revenue reserves
 369,479 
 357,663 
 308,974 
296,991
Other components of equity
 443,372 
422,988
 54,793 
 19,703 
 1,034,969 
 1,020,611 
 585,885 
556,654
Non-controlling interest
 58,866 
 61,656 
 - 
 - 
Total equity
 1,093,835
 1,082,267
 585,885
556,654
Non-current liabilities
Insurance contract liabilities
 178,778 
 168,358 
 - 
 - 
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
 484,913 
 521,055 
 203,058 
 211,915 
Lease liabilities
 97,276 
 98,580 
 - 
 - 
Deferred tax liabilities
 59,750 
 39,398 
 8,625 
 9,318 
Employee benefit liabilities
 7,768 
 10,186 
 667 
 977 
Non-current financial liabilities
 61,023 
 7,914 
 55,782 
 - 
Other non-current liabilities
 869 
 722 
 - 
 - 
 890,377 
 846,213 
 268,132 
 222,210 
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables
 90,641 
 142,523 
 1,916 
 1,857 
Amounts due to related parties
 11 
 6 
 177 
 69 
Income tax liabilities
 5,459 
 8,585 
 2,696 
2,888
Short term borrowings
 26,409 
 48,633 
 3,945 
 6,557 
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
 38,966 
 133,195 
 10,152 
 8,403 
Lease liabilities
 6,855 
 11,343 
 - 
 - 
Other current liabilities
 15,756 
 14,034 
 54 
 - 
Bank overdrafts
 91,195 
 66,630 
 526 
 9,639 
 275,292 
 424,949 
 19,466 
29,413
Total equity and liabilities
 2,259,504
 2,353,429
 873,483
 808,277
This information does not constitute a full set of financial statements in compliance with SLFRS/LKAS. The above should be read together with the 
Auditors' opinion and the notes to the financial statements. Exchange rates prevailing at year end USD/Rs.329.5 (2022 - 305) have been used to convert 
the income statement and statement of financial position.

310 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
GROUP REAL ESTATE PORTFOLIO
 
Land in acres
Net book value
Owning company and location
Number of
 Buildings
Buildings
in (sq. ft.)
Freehold
Leasehold
2023
Rs.‘000s
2022
Rs.‘000s
PROPERTIES IN COLOMBO
John Keells PLC
	 56/1, 58, 58 1/1 Kirulapone Avenue, Colombo 5.
 - 
 - 
0.08
 - 
 1,250 
 1,250 
Keells Realtors Ltd
 	 427 & 429, Ferguson Road, Colombo 15.
2
28,125
1.22
 - 
 424,026 
 424,122 
Mackinnon Keells Ltd
 	 Leyden Bastian Road, York Street, Colombo 01.
1
31,656
0.45
 - 
 736,809 
 735,000 
Union Assurance PLC
	 No 20, St. Michaels' Road, Colombo 03.
1
57,916
0.58
 - 
 2,437,199 
 2,098,518
Vauxhall Developments (Pvt) Ltd 
 	 No.199,Union Place, Colombo 2 and 148, Vauxhall Street, 
Colombo 2.
7
 209,484 
3.56
 - 
 10,237,857 
 9,687,620
 	 No.188, 188/1, 188/2, 190, 192 Vauxhall Street, Colombo 
2 and 42, Dawson Street, Colombo 2.
 - 
 - 
2.09
 - 
 6,019,200 
 5,684,800 
	 No. 186, 186/3 Vauxhall Street, Colombo 2.
 - 
 - 
3.72
 - 
 10,726,380 
 10,130,470 
Waterfront Properties (Pvt) Ltd 
No 5, Justice Akbar Mawatha, Slave Island, Colombo 2
1
207,480
 0.76 
 - 
 16,903,000
 15,530,000 
Glennie Properties (Pvt) Ltd 
 	 No.82, Glennie Street, Colombo 02.
 - 
 - 
0.08
 - 
 193,920
 193,920
12
534,661
12.54
 - 
47,679,641
44,485,700
PROPERTIES OUTSIDE COLOMBO
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC
 	 Kaduwela.
22
334,804
27.35
 - 
 2,280,245 
 1,817,815 
 	 Trincomalee.
3
19,071
1.06
 - 
 341,394 
 317,250 
 	 Kotagala
6
13,354
 - 
 0.71 
 60,475 
 97,531 
Facets (Pvt) Ltd
	 Ahungalla.
-
 - 
 6.31 
 - 
 529,200
 479,200
John Keells PLC
 	 17/1, Temple Road, Ekala, Ja-Ela.
1
1,200
3.77
 - 
 483,000
 422,730
John Keells Properties Ja-Ela (Pvt) Ltd
 	 No 525, Colombo Road, Kapuwatta, Ja-Ela.
1
 144,631 
 6.60 
 - 
 2,068,000
 2,088,000
John Keells Warehousing (Pvt) Ltd
 	 Muthurajawela.
3
146,743
 - 
 6.19 
 576,643
 389,521
Keells Food Products PLC
 	 41, Temple Road, Ekala, Ja-Ela.
8
52,698
 3.00 
 1.00 
 504,653 
 388,748 
 	 Gonawala, Pannala.
4
41,166
 3.86 
 4.08 
 379,190 
 346,964 
Logipark International (Pvt) Ltd 
 
 
 
 	 Muthurajawela.
-
-
-
 9.00
 2,864,152
 2,456,826
Rajawella Holdings Ltd
	 Mahaberiatenna, Kandy.
4
 59,922 
 - 
 367.83 
 766,828
 1,796,497
Tea Smallholder Factories PLC
 	 Broadlands.
14
 62,765 
 4.14 
 - 
 133,566 
 101,627 
 	 Halwitigala.
14
 53,999 
 9.61 
 - 
 106,108 
 80,136 
 	 Hingalgoda.
26
 65,686 
 12.04 
 - 
 134,700 
 116,135 
 	 Karawita.
12
 79,244 
-
 4.98 
 142,474 
 142,474 
 	 Kurupanawa.
22
 55,728 
 12.12 
 - 
 147,076 
 104,272 
 	 Neluwa.
18
 53,266 
 3.74 
 - 
 112,971 
 91,752 
 	 New Panawenna.
8
46,389
 10.59 
 - 
 102,030 
 75,493 
 	 Peliyagoda.
1
 31,629 
 - 
 0.98 
 460,786 
 440,324 
167
 1,262,295 
 104.19 
394.77
 12,193,491 
 11,753,295 

311
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
 
Land in acres
Net book value
Owning company and location
Number of
 Buildings
Buildings
in (sq. ft.)
Freehold
Leasehold
2023
Rs.‘000s
2022
Rs.‘000s
PROPERTIES OUTSIDE COLOMBO
The Colombo Ice Company (Pvt) Ltd
	 Awissawella.
9
 182,937 
 - 
 9.30 
 1,836,938
 1,694,226
J K Thudella Properties (Pvt) Ltd
 	 Tudella, Ja-Ela.
 - 
 - 
 12.11 
 - 
 678,265
 581,370
Union Assurance PLC
	 No 06,Rajapihilla Road, Kurunegala.
1
27,904
 0.20 
 - 
 425,117
 347,578
Whittall Boustead Ltd
 	 150, Badulla Road, Nuwara Eliya.
1
4,343
 0.46 
 - 
 208,983
 171,200
178
1,477,479
116.96
 404.07 
 15,342,794
 14,547,669
HOTEL PROPERTIES
Asian Hotels and Properties PLC
 	 Cinnamon Grand Premises, Colombo 2.
4
734,932
 6.64 
 - 
 32,076,435 
 26,052,814 
 	 Crescat Boulevard, Colombo 2.
1
145,196
1.39
 - 
 2,639,839 
 6,486,065 
Ahungalla Holiday Resort (Pvt) Ltd
	 Ahungalla.
-
 - 
 6.51 
 - 
 336,200
 319,100
Beruwala Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
	 Cinnamon Bey, Beruwala.
9
 453,136 
 10.82 
 - 
 5,208,233
 4,145,822
Ceylon Holiday Resorts Ltd
 	 Bentota Beach Hotel, Bentota.
8
 308,658 
 2.02 
 11.92 
 4,768,101
 4,501,495
Fantasea World Investments (Pte) Ltd
 	 Chaaya Lagoon Hakuraa Huraa, Republic of Maldives.
163
 236,730 
 - 
 18.90 
 12,632,232
 12,226,001
Habarana Lodge Ltd
 	 Cinnamon Lodge, Habarana.
79
101,162
 - 
 34.00 
 864,856
 755,646
Habarana Walk Inn Ltd
 	 Chaaya Village, Habarana.
84
91,369
 - 
 9.34 
 370,369
 318,116
Hikkaduwa Holiday Resort (Pvt) Ltd
 	 Chaaya Tranz, Hikkaduwa.
5
218,362
 0.29 
 4.43 
 1,935,297
 1,832,211
Kandy Walk Inn Ltd
 	 Cinnamon Citadel, Kandy.
6
128,302
 6.29 
 - 
 1,811,231
 1,745,394
Resort Hotels Ltd
 	 Medway Estate, Nilaveli.
1
 4,485 
 41.73 
 - 
 1,066,000
 961,700
Trans Asia Hotels PLC
 	 Cinnamon Lake Side, Colombo 2.
2
371,611
 - 
 7.65 
 7,082,927
 6,304,361
Tranquility (Pte) Ltd
 	 Chaaya Island Dhonveli, Republic of Maldives.
146
261,327
 - 
 17.16 
 27,636,699
 26,067,067
 	 Velifushi, Republic of Maldives.
145
 263,512 
 - 
 13.22 
 8,072,854
 8,616,321
Travel Club (Pte) Ltd
 	 Chaaya Reef Ellaidhoo, Republic of Maldives.
115
178,294
 - 
 13.80 
 6,519,327
 6,901,435
Trinco Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
 	 Chaaya Blu, Trincomalee.
9
94,931
 13.24 
 - 
 1,684,907
 1,484,335
Trinco Walk Inn Ltd
 	 Club Oceanic, Trincomalee.
-
 - 
 14.15 
 - 
 393,467
 392,500
Wirawila Walk Inn Ltd
 	 Randunukelle Estate, Wirawila.
-
 - 
 25.15 
 - 
 100,718
 95,600
Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd
 	 Cinnamon Wild, Tissamaharama.
78
81,909
 - 
 9.34 
 618,025 
 498,109
855
3,673,916
128.23
139.76
 115,817,717 
 109,704,092
Improvements to Keells Super outlets on leased hold 
properties and lease rentals paid in advance
132
 1,405,272 
 - 
 99.64 
 17,501,983 
 16,558,634
Consolidated Value of Land and Buildings, Right of Use 
Assets and Investment Property
1,177
7,091,328
257.73
 643.47 
 196,342,135 
 185,296,095

312 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
GLOSSARY
ACCRUAL BASIS 
Recording revenues and expenses in the period 
in which they are earned or incurred regardless 
of whether cash is received or disbursed in that 
period. 
ASSET TURNOVER 
Revenue including equity accounted investees 
divided by average total assets. 
BETA 
Covariance between daily JKH share return and 
market return divided by variance of daily market 
return, over a 5-year period. 
CAPITAL EMPLOYED 
Shareholders’ funds plus non-controlling interests 
and debt including lease liabilities. 
CAPITAL STRUCTURE LEVERAGE (CSL) 
Average total assets divided by average 
shareholders’ equity. 
CASH EARNINGS PER SHARE 
Profit attributable to equity holders of the 
parent adjusted for non-cash items minus share 
of profits of equity accounted investees plus 
dividends from equity accounted investees 
divided by the weighted average number of 
ordinary shares in issue during the period. 
COMMON EARNINGS LEVERAGE (CEL) 
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 
divided by profit after tax. 
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 
A condition or situation existing as at the date 
of the Report due to past events, where the 
financial effect is not recognised because: 
1. 	The obligation is crystallised by the occurrence 
or non-occurrence of one or more future 
events or,
2.	 A probable outflow of economic resources is 
not expected or, 
3. 	It is unable to be measured with sufficient 
reliability. 
CURRENT RATIO 
Current assets divided by current liabilities. 
DEBT/EQUITY RATIO 
Debt as a percentage of shareholders’ funds and 
non-controlling interests. 
DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPS)
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 
divided by the weighted average number 
of ordinary shares in issue during the period 
adjusted for options granted but not exercised.
DIVIDEND PAYABLE 
Final dividend per share multiplied by the latest 
available total number of shares as at the date of 
the Report. 
DIVIDEND PAYOUT RATIO 
Dividend paid as a percentage of Group profits 
attributed to equity holders. 
DIVIDEND YIELD 
Dividends adjusted for changes in number of 
shares in issue as a percentage of the share price 
(diluted) at the end of the period. 
EARNINGS PER SHARE (BASIC) 
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 
divided by the weighted average number of 
ordinary shares in issue during the period. 
EBIT 
Earnings before interest expense and tax 
(includes other operating income). Note that 
EBIT includes interest income, fair value gains 
and losses on investment property, depreciation 
and amortisation, and share of results of equity 
accounted investees, but excludes exchange 
gains or losses (other than that of equity 
accounted investees). 
EBITDA
Earnings before interest expense, tax, 
depreciation and amortisation (includes other 
operating income). Note that EBITDA includes 
interest income, fair value gains and losses on 
investment property and share of results of equity 
accounted investees, but excludes exchange 
gains or losses (other than that of equity 
accounted investees). 
EBIT MARGIN 
EBIT divided by revenue inclusive of share of 
equity accounted investees. 
EFFECTIVE RATE OF TAXATION 
Tax expense divided by profit before tax. 
ENTERPRISE VALUE (EV) 
Market capitalisation plus net debt/(net cash). 
INTEREST COVER 
Consolidated profit before interest and tax over 
interest expense. 
LIABILITIES TO TANGIBLE NET WORTH 
Total non-current and current liabilities including 
contingent liabilities divided by tangible net 
worth. 
LONG-TERM DEBT TO TOTAL DEBT 
Long-term loans and similar obligations as a 
percentage of total debt. 
MARKET CAPITALISATION 
Number of shares in issue at the end of the 
period multiplied by the market price at the end 
of the period. 
NET ASSETS 
Total assets minus current liabilities, long-term 
liabilities, and non-controlling interests. 
NET ASSETS PER SHARE 
Net assets as at a particular financial year end 
divided by the number of shares in issue as at the 
current financial year end. 
NET DEBT (CASH) 
Total debt minus cash in hand and at bank 
minus short term investments minus deposits 
with a maturity between 1 and 3 years held at 
the Holding Company, excluding short-term 
investments under the life fund of UA, restricted 
regulatory fund at UA and customer advances at 
the Property Development sector, if any.
NET PROFIT MARGIN 
Profit after tax attributable to equity holders of 
the parent divided by total revenue including 
equity accounted investees. 
PRICE EARNINGS RATIO 
Market price per share over earnings per share. 
PRICE TO BOOK RATIO 
Market price per share over net asset value per 
share. 
PRICE TO CASH EARNINGS 
Market price per share divided by diluted cash 
earnings per share. 
PUBLIC HOLDING 
Percentage of shares held by the public 
calculated as per the Colombo Stock Exchange 
Listing Rules as at the date of the Report. 
QUICK RATIO 
Cash plus short-term investments plus 
receivables, divided by current liabilities. 
RECURRING EBITDA/ RECURRING EBIT/ 
RECURRING PBT / RECURRING PAT/ 
RECURRING PAT TO EQUITY HOLDERS OF 
THE PARENT 
Profit, as applicable, adjusted for the one-off 
impacts discussed under the Financial and 
Manufactured Capital Review section of the 
Report: Page 81. 
RETURN ON ASSETS 
Profit after tax divided by the average total assets. 
RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED (ROCE) 
EBIT as a percentage of average capital employed. 
RETURN ON EQUITY (ROE) 
Profit attributable to shareholders as a percentage 
of average shareholders’ funds. 
SCOPE 1 AND SCOPE 2 
The GHG Protocol has established a classification 
of GHG emissions called ‘Scope’: Scope 1, Scope 
2 and Scope 3. The GHG emissions standard 
published by the International Organisation for 
Standardisation (ISO), ‘ISO 14064’, represents these 
classifications of Scope with the following terms: 
1. Direct GHG emissions = Scope I 
2. Energy indirect GHG emissions = Scope 2 
SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS 
Total of stated capital, other components of 
equity and revenue reserves. 
TANGIBLE NET WORTH 
Total equity less intangible assets and deferred 
tax assets. 
TOTAL DEBT 
Long and short-term loans, including overdrafts 
and the liability arising out of the issue of 
convertible debentures, but excluding lease 
liabilities. Instances where total debt includes 
lease liabilities and/or excludes the liability arising 
out of the issue of convertible debentures are 
explicitly mentioned. 
TOTAL EQUITY 
Shareholders’ funds plus non-controlling interest. 
WORKING CAPITAL 
Current assets minus current liabilities

313
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT
INTRODUCTION
DNV represented by DNV Business Assurance 
Lanka (Private) Limited (‘DNV’) has been 
commissioned by the management of John 
Keells Holdings PLC (‘JKH’ or ‘the Company’, 
Corporate Registration Number PQ14) to carry 
out an independent assurance engagement 
of its non-financial/sustainability performance 
(qualitative and quantitative data) disclosed 
in the JKH’s Annual Report 2022/23 (‘the 
Report’) in its printed and online formats. 
The sustainability performance in this Report 
covers disclosures corresponding to the 
reporting period 1 April 2022 – 31 March 2023 
and related to material topics identified by 
JKH. 
The sustainability disclosures have been 
prepared by JKH based on the Guiding 
Principles and Content Elements of the 
International <IR> Framework (January 2021, 
the ‘<IR> Framework’) of the International 
Integrated Reporting Council (‘IIRC’), 
the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI’s) 
Sustainability Reporting Standards (‘GRI 
Standards’) 2021 and other frameworks to 
which JKH subscribes, to bring out the various 
Content Elements of the <IR> Framework 
as well as performance trends related to 
identified material topics. 
The reporting topic boundaries for non-
financial performance are based on the 
internal and external materiality assessment 
carried out by JKH covering identified material 
topics for the various business sectors of JKH, 
and is as brought out in the Report in the 
section ‘Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder 
Engagement and Materiality’. The Report does 
not include performance data and information 
related to the activities of non-operational 
entities, investment entities and companies 
holding only land, over which JKH does not 
exercise operational and management control.
We performed our assurance (Type 
2, Moderate level) activities based on 
AccountAbility’s AA1000 Assurance Standard 
v3, and DNV’s assurance methodology 
VeriSustainTM . In doing so, we evaluated 
the qualitative and quantitative disclosures 
presented in the Report, together with using 
the Guiding Principles of the <IR> Framework, 
together with JKH’s protocols for measuring, 
recording and reporting sustainability 
performance. Our assurance engagement was 
planned and carried out in February 2023 – 
May 2023.
The intended user of this assurance statement 
is the Management of JKH. We disclaim any 
liability or responsibility to a third party for 
decisions, whether investment or otherwise, 
based on this Assurance Statement. We 
planned and performed our work to obtain 
the evidence we considered necessary to 
provide a basis for our assurance opinion and 
this process did not involve engagement with 
any external stakeholders.  
RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE MANAGEMENT OF 
JKH AND OF THE ASSURANCE PROVIDER
The Management of the Company has the 
sole responsibility for the preparation of the 
Report as well as the processes for collecting, 
analysing and reporting the information 
presented in the Report and also responsible 
for ensuring the maintenance and integrity 
of its website and referenced disclosures on 
sustainability performance and management 
approach. In performing this assurance work, 
DNV’s responsibility is to the Management 
of JKH; however, this statement represents 
our independent opinion and is intended to 
inform the outcome of the assurance to the 
stakeholders of the Company.
DNV’s assurance engagements are based on 
the assumption that the data and information 
provided by the client to us as part of our 
review have been provided in good faith and 
free from material misstatements or errors. 
We were not involved in the preparation of 
any statements or data included in the Report 
except for this Assurance Statement.
We did not come across limitations to scope 
of the agreed assurance agreement during 
our assurance process. The reported data on 
economic performance and other financial 
data of JKH within the Report are based on 
audited financial statements which have been 
subjected to a separate independent statutory 
audit process and is not included in our scope 
of work.  
BASIS OF OUR OPINION
We planned and performed our work to 
obtain the evidence considered necessary 
to provide a basis for our assurance opinion, 
and as part of the assurance engagement, a 
multi-disciplinary team of sustainability and 
assurance specialists conducted assessments 
and interactions with key internal stakeholders 
at JKH’s Corporate Office in Colombo and 
sample operations of the Group based on 
DNV’s sampling plan. We adopted a risk-
based approach, that is, we concentrated 
our verification efforts on the issues of 
high material relevance to JKH and its key 
stakeholders. We undertook the following 
activities:
•	 Reviewed JKH’s approach towards 
addressing the Guiding Principles and 
Content Elements of the <IR> Framework 
and the Principles for Defining Report 
Content and Quality as per GRI Standards 
(GRI 1: Foundation 2021) and general 
disclosures as per GRI standards (GRI 
2: General disclosures 2021), including 
stakeholder engagement and materiality 
determination processes;
•	 Carried out site assessments of sample 
operations of the Group - (i) JKH’s Corporate 
Office, Vauxhall Street - Colombo (ii) Hikka 
Tranz by Cinnamon – Hikkaduwa (iii) John 
Keells stock brokerage Office - Colombo 
(iv) Keells Outlet – Darley road (v) John 
Keells Logistics’ Warehouse (Logipark) 
at Kerawelapitiya, and (vi) Colombo ice 
company at Awissawella to review the 
processes and systems for preparing site 
level sustainability data and implementation 
of sustainability strategy. DNV was free to 
choose sites for conducting assessments; 
•	 Conducted interviews with senior 
management teams and other 
representatives including data owners 
and decision-makers responsible for 
implementation of the Group’s policies and 
management of sustainability issues as 
disclosed within the Report. We were free to 
choose interviewees and interviewed those 
with overall responsibility to deliver JKH’s 
sustainability objectives;
•	 Assessed the robustness of the data 
management systems, data accuracy, 
information flow and controls for 
the reported disclosures and specific 
performance data related to identified 
material topics, as well as the processes 
for data consolidation in context to the 
principle of Completeness as per DNV’s 
VeriSustain;
•	 Examined and reviewed selected 
supporting evidences including documents, 
data and other information made available 
1 	 The VeriSustain protocol is available on request from www.dnv.com and is based on our professional experience, international assurance best practices including the International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (ISAE 3000) Revised 
(Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information) and GRI’s Reporting Principles. GRI’s Principles for defining Report Content and Quality.

314 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
by JKH related to sustainability disclosures 
presented within the Report; 
•	 Performed an independent assessment 
of JKH’s reporting against the reporting 
requirements for the GRI Standards of 
reporting, as well as the value creation 
disclosures related to the capitals identified 
by JKH and Content Elements of the <IR> 
Framework.  
OPINION AND OBSERVATIONS
On the basis of our assurance work 
undertaken, nothing has come to our 
attention to suggest that the Report does 
not properly describe JKH’s adherence to the 
Reporting Principles of the GRI Standards and 
the Guiding Principles and Content Elements 
of the <IR> Framework. This includes GRI 
requirements of reporting (GRI 2: General 
Disclosures 2021 and GRI 3: Material topics 
2021), representation of the material topics 
including chosen topic-specific disclosures 
(below) from the GRI Standards to bring 
out its sustainability performance, business 
model, disclosures on value creation through 
identified capitals, and related strategies:
-	GRI 201: Economic Performance 2 
016 – 201-1, 201-3; 
-	GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts  
2016 – 203-1; 
-	GRI 204; Procurement Practices 2016 – 204-1; 
-	GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 – 205-1; 
-	GRI 207: Tax 2019 – 207-1, 207-2, 207-3,  
207-4; 
-	GRI 302: Energy 2016 – 302-1, 302-2, 302-3, 
302-4; 
-	GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018 – 303-1, 
303-2, 303-3, 303-4; 
-	GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016 - 304-1; 
-	GRI 305: Emissions 2016 – 305-1, 305-2,  
305-4; 
-	GRI 306: Waste 2020 – 306-1, 306-2, 306-3, 
306-4, 306-5;
-	GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 
2016 – 308-1; 
-	GRI 401: Employment 2016 – 401-1; 
-	GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 
2018 – 403-1, 403-2, 403-3, 403-4, 403-5,  
403-6, 403-7,403-8, 403-9; 
-	GRI 404: Training and Education  
2016 – 404-1, 404-3; 
-	GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 
2016 – 405-1; 
-	GRI 407: Freedom of Association and 
Collective Bargaining 2016 – 407-1
-	GRI 408: Child Labor 2016 – 408-1; 
-	GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2 
016 – 409-1; 
-	GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 – 413-1; 
-	GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment  
2016 – 414-1; 
-	GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety  
2016 - 416-1; 
-	GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling  
2016 – 417-1, 417-2, 417-3; 
Without affecting our assurance opinion, we 
also provide the following observations.
PRINCIPLES OF THE AA1000 
ACCOUNTABILITY PRINCIPLES STANDARD 
(2018)
Inclusivity
The participation of stakeholders in developing 
and achieving an accountable and strategic 
response to Sustainability. 
The Report explains how JKH engages with its 
stakeholders who have significant influence 
over or who significantly affect its operations, 
through ongoing formal and informal 
processes. The modes and frequencies, as well 
as the key concerns and expectations that 
arise from these engagements are brought out 
by JKH.
Nothing has come to our attention to 
suggest that the Report does not meet the 
requirements related to the Principle of 
Inclusivity.
Materiality
The process of determining the issues that 
are most relevant to an organization and its 
stakeholders.
The Report describes the materiality 
assessment carried out by JKH covering the 
Group and its key business segments aimed 
at identifying significant environmental, social 
and governance topics which are important 
to its stakeholders and relevant to the Group’s 
long-term value creation. The identified 
material topics and matters are prioritized 
based on impacts and relative importance, to 
form the overall report content. JKH reviews 
its material topics at regular intervals and 
confirms that its material topics and topic 
boundaries have not changes significantly 
from the previous reporting period. 
Nothing has come to our attention to 
suggest that the Report does not meet the 
requirements related to the Principle of 
Materiality.
Responsiveness
The extent to which an organization responds 
to stakeholder issues.
The Report brings out descriptions of JKH’s 
processes towards responding to its material 
topics including evaluation of its business 
strategies through descriptions of the Group’s 
and individual business sectors’ policies, 
management approach, targets, performance 
indicators and governance mechanisms 
related to identified material matters such 
as key outcomes and impacts, in its Annual 
Report and corporate website. 
Nothing has come to our attention to 
suggest that the Report does not meet the 
requirements related to the Principle of 
Responsiveness.
Impact 
The level to which an organisation monitors, 
measures and is accountable for how its 
actions affect its broader ecosystems.
The Report describes the key metrics and 
management processes followed by JKH for 
monitoring, measuring and evaluating the 
non-financial impacts related to its identified 
material matters and key stakeholder groups 
across its various businesses and significant 
value chain entities. 
Nothing has come to our attention to 
suggest that the Report does not meet the 
requirements related to the Principle of 
Impact. 
SPECIFIC EVALUATION OF THE 
INFORMATION ON SUSTAINABILITY 
PERFORMANCE
We consider the methodology and the 
process for gathering information developed 
by JKH for its sustainability performance 
INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT
2 	  The DNV Code of Conduct is available on request from www.dnv.com

315
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
For DNV,
22nd May 2023, Colombo, Sri Lanka.
DNV Business Assurance Lanka (Private) Limited is part of DNV – Business Assurance, a global provider of certification, verification, assessment and 
training services, helping customers to build sustainable business performance. www.dnv.com
reporting to be appropriate, and the 
qualitative and quantitative data included in 
the Report was found to be identifiable and 
traceable; the personnel responsible were able 
to demonstrate the origin and interpretation 
of the data and its reliability. We observed that 
the Report presents a faithful description of 
the reported sustainability activities and goals 
achieved for the reporting period.
Reliability
The accuracy and comparability of information 
presented in the report, as well as the quality 
of underlying data management systems.
The Report brings out JKH’s sustainability 
performance related to its identified material 
matters using selected GRI topic-specific 
Standards. The sustainability performance data 
is captured on a quarterly basis from across 
its businesses through its data management 
system, and audited internally. The majority 
of the data and information verified through 
our assessments at sampled operational sites 
and aggregated at the corporate level were 
found to be fairly accurate and reliable. Some 
of the data inaccuracies identified during 
the verification process were found to be 
attributable to transcription, interpretation and 
aggregation errors and these errors have been 
identified, communicated and corrected. 
Nothing has come to our attention to 
suggest that the Report does not meet the 
requirements related to the Principle of 
Reliability.
ADDITIONAL PRINCIPLES AS PER DNV 
VERISUSTAIN
Completeness
How much of all the information that has been 
identified as material to the organisation and 
its stakeholders is reported.
The Report brings out the key requirements 
related to the <IR> framework including 
strategies and descriptions of business model 
and management approach towards creating 
value, and GRI General Disclosures and 
selected topic-specific Standards for bringing 
out its sustainability performance.
Nothing has come to our attention to 
suggest that the Report does not meet 
the requirements related to the Principle 
of Completeness with respect to scope, 
boundary and time.
Neutrality
The extent to which a report provides a 
balanced account of an organization’s 
performance, delivered in a neutral tone.
The Report presents JKH’s performance during 
the reporting period in a neutral manner 
so as to not unduly influence stakeholder 
opinions made on reported data and 
information, which includes descriptions of 
significant challenges and concerns related to 
stakeholders and business sectors, and overall 
macroeconomic environment and business 
outlook.
Nothing has come to our attention to 
suggest that the Report does not meet the 
requirements related to the Principle of 
Neutrality.
STATEMENT OF COMPETENCE AND 
INDEPENDENCE 
DNV applies its own management standards 
and compliance policies for quality control, 
in accordance with ISO IEC 17021:2015 - 
Conformity Assessment Requirements for 
bodies providing audit and certification 
of management systems, and accordingly 
maintains a comprehensive system of quality 
control including documented policies and 
procedures regarding compliance with ethical 
requirements, professional standards and 
applicable legal and regulatory requirements. 
We have complied with the DNV Code of 
Conduct during the assurance engagement 
and maintain independence where required 
by relevant ethical requirements including 
the AA1000AS v3 Code of Practice. This 
engagement work was carried out by an 
independent team of sustainability assurance 
professionals. We were not involved in 
the preparation of any statements or data 
included in the Report except for this 
Assurance Statement and Management 
Report. DNV maintains complete impartiality 
toward stakeholders interviewed during the 
assurance process. We did not provide any 
services to JKH or its subsidiaries in the scope 
of assurance for the reporting period that 
could compromise the independence or 
impartiality of our work.

316 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
GROUP DIRECTORY
Industry 
Group
Sector
Segment/
Business
Company Name
Nature
Incorporated Year & 
Country 
TRANSPORTATION 
Ports and Shipping
Colombo West International 
Terminal (Pvt) Ltd**
Ports & Shipping Services
2021
(PV00238709) 
Sri Lanka
Inchcape Mackinnon Mackenzie 
Shipping (Pvt) Ltd** 
Port agency services, project  
logistics and freight forwarding solutions
2021
(PV00235035) 
Sri Lanka
Mackinnon Mackenzie & Company 
(Shipping) Ltd
Shipping Agency representation & 
logistics services 
1973
(PB 359) 
Sri Lanka
Maersk Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. ** 
Shipping Agency representation & freight 
forwarding services
1992
(PV 2550)
Sri Lanka
South Asia Gateway Terminals (Pvt) 
Ltd **
Ports & Shipping Services
1998
(PV 326)
Sri Lanka
Transportation
Bunkering
Lanka Marine Services (Pvt) Ltd
Importer & supplier of heavy marine fuel 
oils
1993
(PV 475)
Sri Lanka
DHL Keells
DHL Keells (Pvt) Ltd **
International express courier services
1986
PV 1307
Sri Lanka
Logistics
John Keells Logistics (Pvt) Ltd
Integrated supply chain management
2006
PV318
Sri Lanka
Other
Mack International Freight (Pvt) 
Ltd
International freight forwarding and 
clearing & forwarding
1980
(PV 831)
Sri Lanka
Mackinnon Mackenzie and 
Company of Ceylon Ltd*
Foreign recruitment agents & consultants
1975
(PB 348)
Sri Lanka
Trans-Ware Logistics (Pvt) Ltd*
Renting of storage space
1994
(PV 3134)
Sri Lanka
Airlines
Mack Air (Pvt) Ltd
General sales agents for airlines in Sri 
Lanka
1980
(PV 868)
Sri Lanka
 
Mackinnons Travels (Pvt) Ltd
IATA accredited travel agent and travel 
related services
1971
(PV 1261)
Sri Lanka
Saffron Aviation (Pvt) Ltd
Domestic air line operations
2012
(PV 84728)
Sri Lanka
CONSUMER FOODS
Beverages
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC
Manufacture & Marketing of Beverages 
and frozen confectionery and the holding 
company of JayKay Marketing
1926 1941
(PQ 4)
Sri Lanka
Frozen 
Confectionery
The Colombo Ice Company (Pvt) 
Ltd
Manufacturing and Marketing of frozen 
confectionery
2016
(PV 113758)
Sri Lanka
Convenience 
Foods
John Keells Foods India (Pvt) Ltd* 
Marketing of Branded meat and 
convenience food products
2008
(U15122MH2008FTC180902) 
India
Keells Food Products PLC
Manufacturer and distributor of 
Processed meat, breaded meat & 
convenience food products. 
1982
(PQ 3)
Sri Lanka

317
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
Addresses
Directors
Stated Capital & 
Effective Holding
No. 117, Sir Chittampalam A Gardiner Mawatha, 
Colombo 2.
Tel. 2475574
K N J Balendra, J G A Cooray, S Mehta, S Tripathy,  
U M Abhyankar, H Sundaram, K A Pathak, J S Khurana,  
A Z Hashim, K D Weerasinghe, G U K Algewattage,  
K D Bernard
USD 51,960,785 
34%
No. 11, York Street, Colombo 01 
Tel. (0)11 247 5420
A Z Hashim, K C Subasinghe, K D Weerasinghe, 
D N Pratt, A Pillai
Rs.27,420,000
60%
No. 4, Layden Bastian Road, Colombo 1 
Tel. 2475423
K D Weerasinghe,K C Subasinghe, A Z Hashim 
Rs.5,000,000
100%
Level 16 Park Land 33, Park Street, Colombo 2
Tel. 0114794800
Nikhil D’Lima, Saman Kekulawala, Vikash Agarwal, 
W T Ellawala, Ahmed Zafir Hashim
Rs.10,000,000 
30%
Port of Colombo, P.O Box 141 Colombo 1 
Tel. 0112457500
K N J Balendra - Chairperson 
J G A Cooray, K D Weerasinghe, N W Tambiah,  
K C Subasinghe, A Z Hashim, D P Gamlath,Yen-I Chang, 
J M Bevis, M Degryse, J R Goldner, G U K Algewattage,  
S K Brandt, K D Bernard
Rs.3,788,485,900
42.19%
No 04, Leyden Bastian Road, Colombo 01
Tel. 2475410-421
A Z Hashim, K D Weerasinghe, D P Gamlath
Rs.350,000,000
99.44%
No. 148, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 2.
Tel. 2304304 / 4798600
K N J Balendra - Chairperson 
A Z Hashim, S P Wall, S R Sivarama 
Rs.20,000,020 
50%
No. 117, Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha, 
Colombo 2.
Tel. 2475574
K D Weerasinghe, A Z Hashim 
Rs.200,000,000
100%
No. 11, York Street, Colombo 1
Tel. 7671671
K D Weerasinghe, K C Subasinghe, A Z Hashim
Rs.130,000,000
100%
No. 11, York Street, Colombo 1
Tel. 2475509
K D Weerasinghe, K C Subasinghe, A.Z.Hashim 
Rs.90,000
100%
No. 11, York Street, Colombo 1
Tel. 2475545/539
K C Subasinghe, A Z Hashim, N N Mawilmada,  
K D Weerasinghe
Rs.220,000,080
100%
No. 11, York Street, Colombo 1
Tel. 2475375/2475335
K D Weerasinghe, K C Subasinghe, A Z Hashim 
Rs.12,500,000
100%
No. 186, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 2
Tel. 2318600
K D Weerasinghe, K C Subasinghe, A Z Hashim 
Rs.5,000,000
100%
No. 117, Sir Chittampalam A Gardiner Mawatha, 
Colombo 02.
Tel. 2475502
J G A Cooray - Chairperson 
K D Weerasinghe, A Z Hashim, B A B Goonetilleke,  
K Balasundaram, H D Abeywickrema, C S W Anthony
Rs.622,179,000
40%
No.117,Chittampalam A,Gardiner 
Mawatha,Colombo - 02
Tel. 2318798
K N J Balendra - Chairperson 
J G A Cooray, D P Gamlath, M Hamza, S T Ratwatte, 
R S W Wijeratnam, P N Fernando, K C Subasinghe
Rs.918,200,000
81.36%
No.117, Chittampalam A Gardiner Mawatha, 
Colombo - 02
Tel. 2306000
P N Fernando, D P Gamlath
Rs.1,700,000,000
81.36%
 Luthra and Luthra Chartered Accountants A 16 / 
9, Vasant Vihar, New Delhi -110057, India
Tel. 0091 1142591823, 0091, 1126148048, 
26151853, 26147365 Fax: +91-11-2614 5222
P N Fernando, D P Gamlath, K O Agrawal
Rs.220,294,544  
(INR 90,000,000)
88.63%
P.O Box 10,No.16, Minuwangoda Road, Ekala Ja-Ela
Tel. 2236317/ 2236364
K N J Balendra - Chairperson 
J G A Cooray, D P Gamlath, S De Silva, A E H Sanderatne, 
I Samarajiva, P D Samarasinghe, P N Fernando
Rs.1,294,815,000 
88.63%

318 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
GROUP DIRECTORY
Industry 
Group
Sector
Segment/
Business
Company Name
Nature
Incorporated Year & 
Country 
RETAIL
Supermarket
JayKay Marketing Services (Pvt) Ltd
Owns and Operates the "Keells" chain of 
supermarkets and "Nexus Mobile" loyalty 
card programme.
1980
(PV 33)
Sri Lanka
Logipark International (Pvt) Ltd
Integrated Supply Chain Management
2018
(PV 201610)
Sri Lanka
Office 
Automation
John Keells Office Automation 
(Pvt) Ltd
Distributor/Reseller and Services 
Provider in Office Automation(OA), Retail 
Automation (RA) and Mobile Devices
1992
(PV 127)
Sri Lanka
LEISURE 
Hotel Management
Cinnamon Hotel Management Ltd
Operator & marketer of resort hotels
1974
(PB 7)
Sri Lanka
Cinnamon Hotel Management 
International (Pvt) Ltd*
Operator & marketer of overseas hotels 
& resorts
2018
(PV 131788)
Sri Lanka
John Keells Hotels PLC*
Holding company of group resort hotel 
companies in Sri Lanka & Maldives 
1979
(PQ 8)
Sri Lanka
Sentinel Realty (Pvt) Ltd**
Investment company for Hotel 
Development land
2011
(PV 80706)
Sri Lanka
Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts
Colombo 
Hotels
Asian Hotels and Properties PLC 
-Cinnamon Grand***
Owner & operator of the five star city 
hotel "Cinnamon Grand"
1993
(PQ 2)
Sri Lanka
Capitol Hotel Holdings Ltd
Developer of City Business Hotels 
2012
(PB 5013)
Sri Lanka
Trans Asia Hotels PLC
Owner & operator of the five star city 
hotel "Cinnamon Lakeside".
1981
(PQ 5)
Sri Lanka
Waterfront Properties (Pvt) Ltd***
Developer of Hotels,Apartments, offices & 
Shopping Malls
2011
(PV 82153)
Sri Lanka
Sri Lankan 
Resorts
Ahungalla Holiday Resorts (Pvt) 
Ltd*
Owner of real estate
2012
(PV 85046)
Sri Lanka
Beruwala Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
Owner & operator of "Cinnamon Bey" in 
Beruwala
2009
(PV 69678)
Sri Lanka
Ceylon Holiday Resorts Ltd 
-Bentota Beach Hotel 
Owner & operator of "Cinnamon Bentota 
Beach" in Bentota 
1966
(PB 40)
Sri Lanka
Habarana Lodge Ltd
Owner & operator of "Cinnamon Lodge" 
in Habarana
1978
(PB 38)
Sri Lanka
Habarana Walk Inn Ltd
Owner & operator of "Habarana Village by 
Cinnamon" in Habarana
1973
(PB 33)
Sri Lanka
Hikkaduwa Holiday Resorts (Pvt) 
Ltd
Owner & operator of "Hikka Tranz by 
Cinnamon" in Hikkaduwa
2010
(PV 71747) 
Sri Lanka
 Indra Hotel and Resorts Kandy 
(Pvt) Ltd*
Owner of Cinnamon Red Kandy
2017
(PV 124247) 
Sri Lanka

319
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
Addresses
Directors
Stated Capital & 
Effective Holding
No.117,Chittampalam A,Gardiner 
Mawatha,Colombo - 02
Tel. 2316800
J G A Cooray - Chairperson
A Wanniarachchi, K C Subasinghe, N W Tambiah
Rs.1,198,000,000
81.36%
No. 117, Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha, 
Colombo 02.
Tel. 2475574
 A Wanniarachchi, K C Subasinghe, A Z Hashim 
Rs.1,058,750,000
81.36%
Corporate Office: 90 Union Place, Colombo - 2 
Technical Services:148 Vauxhall Street, 
Colombo - 2
Tel. 2313000, 2431576, 2445760
N W Tambiah, K C Subasinghe, D P Gamlath
 Rs.5,000,000
100%
No.117 Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha, 
Colombo - 02
Tel. 2306600, 2421101-8
M H Singhawansa, M R Svensson, K C Subasinghe
Rs.19,520,000
100%
No.117 Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha, 
Colombo - 02
C L P Gunawardane, K C Subasinghe, M H Singhawansa, 
M R Svensson
Rs.500,000
100% 
No.117,Chittampalam A,Gardiner 
Mawatha,Colombo - 02
Tel. 2306600, 2421101-15
K N J Balendra – Chairperson
J G A Cooray, S Rajendra, M R Svensson, 
M H Singhawansa, A K Moonesinghe, K Gunasekera, 
H Premaratne
Rs.9,500,246,939
80.32%
No.117,Chittampalam A,Gardiner 
Mawatha,Colombo - 02
Tel. 2306600
B A B Goonetilleke - Chairperson
N N Mawilmada, C L P Gunewardane, K Balasundaram
Rs.132,288,080
42.41%
No. 77, Galle Road, Colombo 3
Tel. 2437437 /2497206
K N J Balendra - Chairperson / Managing Director
J G A Cooray, C L P Gunawardane, S Rajendra, 
M R Svensson, J Durairatnam, A S De Zoysa, 
A Nanayakkara 
Rs.3,345,118,012
78.56%
No.117,Chittampalam A,Gardiner 
Mawatha,Colombo - 02
Tel. 2306000
M S Weerasekera - Chairperson
M R Svensson, K C Subasinghe, D A Kannangara, 
M D R Gunatilleke, L C H Leow,A J Pathmarajah, 
M D M Gunatileke 
Rs.1,168,800,100
19.47%
No. 115,Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha, 
Colombo 2.
Tel. 2491000
K N J Balendra - Chairperson
J G A Cooray, S Rajendra, C L P Gunawardane, 
M R Svensson, N L Gooneratne, H A J De S Wijeyeratne, 
S A Atukorale
Rs.1,112,879,750
82.74%
No.186, Vauxhall Street, Colombo - 02
Tel. 0112152100
K N J Balendra - Chairperson
J G A Cooray, S Rajendra, N N Mawilmada
Rs.152,313,664,645
99.10%
No.117,Chittampalam A,Gardiner 
Mawatha,Colombo - 02
Tel. 2306000
C L P Gunawardane, K C Subasinghe, M H Singhawansa, 
M R Svensson
Rs.135,137,760
80.32%
Moragalla, Beruwala.
Tel. 034 2297000
C L P Gunawardane, K C Subasinghe, M H Singhawansa, 
M R Svensson
Rs.2,338,150,000
79.78%
Galle Road, Bentota
Tel. 034 2275176 / 034 2275266
S Rajendra, C L P Gunawardane, M H Singhawansa, 
M R Svensson
Rs.2,845,469,318
79.83%
P.O Box 2, Habarana
Tel. 066 2270011-2/ 066 2270072
S Rajendra, C L P Gunawardane, M H Singhawansa, 
M R Svensson
Rs.341,555,262
78.99%
P.O Box 1, Habarana
Tel. 066 2270046-7/ 066 2270077
C L P Gunawardane, K C Subasinghe, M H Singhawansa, 
M R Svensson
Rs.126,350,000
79.34%
P.O Box 1, Galle Road, Hikkaduwa
Tel. 091-2277023
C L P Gunawardane, K C Subasinghe, M H Singhawansa, 
M R Svensson
Rs.1,062,635,460
79.60%
No. 273, Katugastota Road, Kandy
Tel. 081 2234346
Y S H I K Silva, Y S H R S Silva, Y S H H K Silva, S Rajendra, 
C L P Gunawardane
Rs.1,051,400,493
32.13%

320 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
GROUP DIRECTORY
Industry 
Group
Sector
Segment/
Business
Company Name
Nature
Incorporated Year & 
Country 
LEISURE
Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts
Sri Lankan 
Resorts
International Tourists and Hoteliers 
Ltd *
Owner of Cinnamon Bey 
1973
(PB 17)
Sri Lanka
Kandy Walk Inn Ltd
Owner & operator of "Cinnamon Citadel" 
in Kandy
1979
(PB 395)
Sri Lanka
Nuwara Eliya Holiday Resorts (Pvt) 
Ltd *
Owner of real estate
2014
(PV98357) 
Sri Lanka
Rajawella Hotels Company Ltd *
Owner of real estate
1992
(PB 92)
Sri Lanka
Resort Hotels Ltd *
Owner of real estate
1978
(PB 193) 
Sri Lanka
Trinco Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
Owner & Operator of "Trinco Blu by 
Cinnamon" in Trincomalee
2009
(PV 69908)
Sri Lanka
Trinco Walk Inn Ltd*
Owner of Real Estate 
1984
(PB 168)
Sri Lanka
Wirawila Walk Inn Ltd*
Owner of Real Estate 
1994
(PB 89)
Sri Lanka
Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd
Owner & operator of "Cinnamon Wild" in 
Yala
1999
(PV 2868)
Sri Lanka
Maldivian 
Resorts
Fantasea World Investments (Pte) 
Ltd 
Owner & operator of "Cinnamon Hakuraa 
Huraa" in Maldives
1997
(C 143/97)
Maldives
John Keells Maldivian Resorts (Pte) 
Ltd
Hotel holding company in the Maldives
1996
(C 208/96) 
Maldives
Tranquility (Pte) Ltd
Owner and operator of "Cinnamon 
Dhoinveli" and "Cinnamon Velifushi" in 
Maldives
2004
(C 344/2004) 
Maldives
Travel Club (Pte) Ltd
Operator of "Ellaidhoo Maldives by 
Cinnamon" in Maldives
1992
(C 121/92)
Maldives
Destination Management
Cinnamon Holidays (Pvt) Ltd
Service providers of Inbound and 
outbound Tours
2015
(PV 101005) PV107427
Sri Lanka
Walkers Tours Ltd
Inbound tour operators
1969
(PB 249)
Sri Lanka
Whittall Boustead (Travel) Ltd 
Inbound tour operators
1977
(PB 112) 
Sri Lanka
PROPERTY 
Property Management
Asian Hotels and Properties PLC - 
Crescat. Boulevard, The Monarch, 
The Emperor.***
Developer of 'Crescat Residencies', 'The 
Monarch' & 'The Emperor' Residential 
Towers Developer and manager of 
'Crescat Boulevard ' shopping Mall
1993
(PQ 2)
Sri Lanka
John Keells Properties Ja-Ela (Pvt) 
Ltd
Developer & Manager of ' K-Zone Ja-Ela' 
Shopping Mall
2010
(PV 76068)
Sri Lanka

321
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
Addresses
Directors
Stated Capital & 
Effective Holding
Moragalla, Beruwala
Tel. 2306600, 2421101-8
C L P Gunawardane, K C Subasinghe, M H Singhawansa, 
M R Svensson
Rs.1,939,760,925
79.78%
No.124, Srimath Kuda Ratwatte Mawatha, Kandy
Tel. 081 2234365-6/ 081 2237273-4
C L P Gunawardane, K C Subasinghe, M H Singhawansa, 
M R Svensson
Rs.115,182,009
79.03%
No.117,Chittampalam A,Gardiner 
Mawatha,Colombo - 02
Tel. 2306000
C L P Gunawardane, K C Subasinghe, M H Singhawansa, 
M R Svensson
Rs.331,236,820
80.32%
No.117,Chittampalam A,Gardiner 
Mawatha,Colombo - 02
Tel. 2306000
C L P Gunawardane, K C Subasinghe, M H Singhawansa, 
M R Svensson
Rs.37,000,585
80.32%
No.117,Chittampalam A,Gardiner 
Mawatha,Colombo - 02
Tel. 2306780, 2421101-8
C L P Gunawardane, K C Subasinghe, M H Singhawansa, 
M R Svensson
Rs.8,849,150
79.60%
Sambativu, Uppuvelli, Trincomalee
Tel. 026 2222307 / 026 2221611
C L P Gunawardane, K C Subasinghe, M H Singhawansa, 
M R Svensson
Rs.357,000,000
80.32%
Alles Garden, Uppuveli,Sampathiv Post, 
Trincomalee
Tel. 026 2222307 / 011 2306600
C L P Gunawardane, K C Subasinghe, M H Singhawansa, 
M R Svensson
Rs.119,850,070
80.32%
No.117,Chittampalam A,Gardiner 
Mawatha,Colombo - 02
Tel. 2306780, 2421101-8
C L P Gunawardane, K C Subasinghe, M H Singhawansa
Rs.22,936,066
80.32%
P.O Box 1,Kirinda, Tissamaharama
Tel. 047 2239449-52
M A Perera - Chairperson
C L P Gunawardane, S Rajendra, M H Singhawansa, 
J A Davis, M R Svensson, N W Tambiah
Rs.319,427,600
75.33%
Meemu Atoll, Republic of Maldives
Tel. +9603336000
C L P Gunawardane, S Rajendra, M H Singhawansa, 
M R Svensson
Rs.341,573,190
80.32%
2nd Floor, H.Maizan Building, Sosun Magu, Male, 
Republic of Maldives
Tel. +9603336000
S Rajendra,C L P Gunawardane, M H Singhawansa, 
M R Svensson
Rs.3,978,671,681
80.32%
North Malé Atoll, Republic of Maldives
Tel. +9603336000
C L P Gunawardane, S Rajendra,M H Singhawansa, 
M R Svensson
Rs.552,519,608
80.32%
North Ari Atoll, Republic of Maldives
Tel. +9603336000
C L P Gunawardane, S Rajendra - Managing Director
M H Singhawansa, M R Svensson
Rs.143,172,000
80.32%
No.117,Chittampalam A,Gardiner 
Mawatha,Colombo - 02
Tel. 2306000
C L P Gunawardane, K C Subasinghe, M H Singhawansa, 
M R Svensson
Rs.200,000
80.32%
No.117,Chittampalam A,Gardiner 
Mawatha,Colombo - 02
Tel. 2306306
S Rajendra,C L P Gunawardane,  I N Amaratunga
Rs.51,374,200
98.05%
No.117,Chittampalam A,Gardiner 
Mawatha,Colombo - 02
Tel. 2306746
 S Rajendra, C L P Gunawardane, I N Amaratunga
Rs.250,410,000
100%
No.89, Galle Road, Colombo 3
Tel. 0112152100
K N J Balendra - Chairperson/Managing Director
J G A Cooray, C L P Gunawardane, S Rajendra,
M R Svensson, J Durairatnam, A S De Zoysa, 
A Nanayakkara
Rs.3,345,118,012
78.56%
No.186, Vauxhall Street, Colombo - 02
Tel. 0112152100
N W R Wijewantha, K C Subasinghe, N N Mawilmada
Rs.954,360,000
100%

322 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
Industry 
Group
Sector
Segment/
Business
Company Name
Nature
Incorporated Year & 
Country 
PROPERTY
Property Management
Keells Realtors Ltd *
Owner of Real Estates
1977
(PB 90)
Sri Lanka
Mackinnons Keells Ltd*
Rental of office spaces
1952
(PB 8)
Sri Lanka
Whittall Boustead (Pvt) Ltd - Real 
Estate Division 
Renting of office space
1958
(PV 31) 
Sri Lanka
Property Development
British Overseas (Pvt) Ltd
Developer of "7th Sense" Residential 
Tower
2011
(PV 80203)
Sri Lanka
Braybrooke Residential Properties 
(Pvt) Ltd *
Investor of Braybrooke Residential Towers 
(Pvt) Ltd
1998
(PV19165)
Sri Lanka
Braybrooke Residential Towers 
(Pvt) Ltd *
Developer of 'TRI-ZEN' Residential Towers
2017
(PV128387)
Sri Lanka
Glennie Properties (Pvt) Ltd *
Property Development 
2012
(PV 84278) 
Sri Lanka
J K Land (Pvt) Ltd *
Investment Company for Property Sector
2012
(PV 84272) 
Sri Lanka
J K Thudella Properties (Pvt) Ltd *
Owner of Real Estates
2018
(PV 129825) 
Sri Lanka
John Keells Residential Properties 
(Pvt) Ltd
Developer of "On320" Residential Towers
2010
(PV 75050) 
Sri Lanka
Rajawella Holdings Ltd
Operates an 18 hole, Donald Street 
Designed Golf Course in Digana
1991
(PB27)
Sri Lanka
Vauxhall Land Developments (Pvt) 
Ltd *
Owner of Real Estates
2017
(PV125587)
Sri Lanka
Waterfront Properties (Pvt) Ltd***
Developer of Hotels,Apartments, offices & 
Shopping Malls
2011
(PV 82153)
Sri Lanka
FINANCIAL SERVICES 
Insurance
Fairfirst Insurance Ltd **
Providers of Non Life insurance solutions
2014
(PB 5180)
Sri Lanka
Union Assurance PLC 
Providers of Life insurance solutions
1987
(PQ 12)
Sri Lanka
Stock Broking
John Keells Stock Brokers (Pvt) Ltd
Share broking services
1979
(PV 89)
Sri Lanka
Banking
Nations Trust Bank PLC ** 
Commercial banking
1999
(PQ 118) 
Sri Lanka
GROUP DIRECTORY

323
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
Addresses
Directors
Stated Capital & 
Effective Holding
No.186, Vauxhall Street, Colombo - 02
Tel. 0112152100
N W R Wijewantha, K C Subasinghe, N N Mawilmada
Rs.75,000,000
95.81%
No. 4, Layden Bastian Road, Colombo 1
Tel. 0112152100
K M Thanthirige, N W R Wijewantha, N N Mawilmada
Rs.327,800,000
100%
No.186, Vauxhall Street, Colombo - 02
Tel. 0112152100
N W R Wijewantha, K C Subasinghe, N N Mawilmada
Rs.99,188,800
100%
No.186, Vauxhall Street, Colombo - 02
Tel. 0112152100
N W R Wijewantha, K C Subasinghe, N N Mawilmada,
S P G N Rajapakse, D P Gamlath
Rs.1,000
61%
No.186, Vauxhall Street, Colombo - 02
Tel. 0112152100
Y S H R S Silva - Chairperson
S Rajendra, K C Subasinghe, N N Mawilmada,
D P Gamlath, Y S H I K Silva, C P Palansuriya,
Y S H H K Silva
Rs.1,403,970,000
50%
No.186, Vauxhall Street, Colombo - 02
Tel. 0112152100
Y S H R S Silva - Chairperson
K N J Balendra, J G A Cooray, S Rajendra,
N N Mawilmada, Y S H I K Silva, A D B Talwatte,
C P Palansuriya
Rs.3,636,900,000
50%
No.186, Vauxhall Street, Colombo - 02
Tel. 0112152100
K C Subasinghe, N N Mawilmada, D P Gamlath,
N W R Wijewantha
Rs. 163,861,400
100%
No.186, Vauxhall Street, Colombo - 02
Tel. 0112152100
N W R Wijewantha, K C Subasinghe, N N Mawilmada
Rs.24,964,638,930
100%
No.186, Vauxhall Street, Colombo - 02
Tel. 0112152100
N W R Wijewantha, N N Mawilmada
Rs.453,467,620
100%
No.186, Vauxhall Street, Colombo - 02  
Tel. 0112152100
N W R Wijewantha, K C Subasinghe,N N Mawilmada
Rs.925,200,000
100%
P O Box 7, Rajawella, Kandy
Tel. 0112152100
K N J Balendra - Chairperson
J G A Cooray, S Rajendra, N N Mawilmada, C B Thornton 
(Alt. C J Holloway), G R Bostock Kirk (Alt. E C Oxlade),
S E Captain (Alt. R S Captain)
Rs.784,690,140
49.85%
No.186, Vauxhall Street, Colombo - 02
Tel. 0112152100
K N J Balendra - Chairperson
J G A Cooray, N N Mawilmada, N W R Wijewantha
Rs.21,716,553,910
100%
No.186, Vauxhall Street, Colombo - 02
Tel. 0112152100
K N J Balendra - Chairperson
J G A Cooray, S Rajendra, N N Mawilmada
Rs.152,313,664,645
99.10%
Access Towers II, 14th Floor, No: 278/4, Union 
Place, Colombo 02
Tel. 0112428428
C Ratnaswami - Chairperson
A S Wijesinha, C D Wijegunawardene, S Malhotra,
J P Gomes, R M Prabhakar 
Rs.3,131,949,000
19.80%
No.20, St. Michaels' Road, Colombo 3
Tel. 0112990990
K N J Balendra - Chairperson
S Rajendra, D P Gamlath, D H Fernando, S A Appleyard, 
P T Wanigasekara
Rs.1,000,000,000
90%
No. 186,Vauxhall street, Colombo 02
Tel.0112306250, 0112342066-7
S Rajendra, D P Gamlath, R S Cader
Rs.57,750,000
90.04%
No. 242, Union Place, Colombo 2.
Tel. 0114313131
J G A Cooray - Chairperson
R S Cader, J C A D'Souza, R D Rajapaksa, N I R De Mel,
S L Sebastian, C H A W Wickramasuriya, A R Fernando,
R Shanmuganathan, C K Hettiarachchi, H D Gunetilleke 
Rs.11,426,882,000
32.57%

324 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
Industry 
Group
Sector
Segment/
Business
Company Name
Nature
Incorporated Year & 
Country 
OTHER, INCLUDING INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND PLANTATION SERVICES
Information Technology
IT Services
John Keells Information 
Technology (Pvt) Ltd
Software services 
1998
(PV 652)
Sri Lanka
IT Enabled 
Services
Infomate (Pvt) Ltd
IT enabled services
2005
(PV 921)
Sri Lanka
John Keells BPO Holdings Private 
Ltd * 
Holding company of BPO group 
companies
2006
(C 60882)
Mauritius
John Keells BPO International (Pvt) 
Ltd * 
Investment holding company
2007
(C 070137) 
Mauritius
John Keells BPO Solutions Lanka 
(Pvt) Ltd*
BPO operations in Sri Lanka
2006
(PV 3458) 
Sri Lanka
Plantation Services
John Keells PLC
Produce Broking and Real Estate 
Ownership
1960
(PQ 11)
Sri Lanka
John Keells Teas (Pvt) Ltd
Manager seven bought leaf tea factories
1979
(PV 522) 
Sri Lanka
John Keells Warehousing (Pvt) Ltd
Warehousing of Tea and Rubber
2001
(PV 638)
Sri Lanka
Tea Smallholder Factories PLC
Owner and operator of Bought Leaf 
factories
1991
(PQ 32)
Sri Lanka
Other
Facets (Pvt) Ltd *
Owner of real estate
1974
(PV1048) 
Sri Lanka
J K Packaging (Pvt) Ltd*
Printing and packaging services provider 
for the export market
1979
(PV 1265)
Sri Lanka
John Keells Holdings PLC
Group holding company & function 
based services
1979
(PQ 14)
Sri Lanka
John Keells International (Pvt) Ltd *
Regional holding company providing 
administrative & function based services
2006
(PV 46)
Sri Lanka
John Keells Singapore (Pte) Ltd * 
International trading services
1992
(199200499C) 
Singapore
Keells Consultants (Pvt) Ltd
Company secretarial services to the 
group
1974
(PB 3 PV)
Sri Lanka
Mortlake (Pvt) Ltd *
Investment company
1962
(PV 756)
Sri Lanka
* The company is a non-operational company/ investment company/ holding company or owner of real estate. 
** The company has not been considered for sustainability reporting as the Group does not exercise management control over the entity.
***Legal entity has been captured in multiple locations given that there are operations under different segments.
GROUP DIRECTORY

325
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
Addresses
Directors
Stated Capital & 
Effective Holding
No. 148, Vauxhall Street,Colombo 2.
Tel. 2300770-77
J G A Cooray - Chairperson
K D Weerasinghe, R Shanmuganathan
Rs.96,500,000
100%
No.4, Leyden Bastian Road, Colombo 1 
Tel. (94) 112149700
K D Weerasinghe, R Shanmuganathan
Rs.20,000,000
100%
IFS Court, 28, Cybercity, Ebene,Mauritius
Tel. (230) 467 3000
Z H Niamut,K Peerbocus, K D Weerasinghe, K C 
Subasinghe 
Rs.1,988,300,000
100%
IFS Court, 28, Cybercity,Ebene, Mauritius
Tel. (230) 467 3000
Z H Niamut, K Peerbocus, K D Weerasinghe, 
K C Subasinghe 
Rs.1,616,700,008
100%
No.4, Leyden Bastian Road, Colombo 1 
Tel. (94) 2300770-77
K D Weerasinghe, K C Subasinghe, R Shanmuganathan
Rs.335,797,260
100%
No. 186, Vauxhall street,Colombo 02
Tel. 2306000
K N J Balendra - Chairperson
J G A Cooray, K D Weerasinghe, A K Gunawardhana, 
C N Wijewardene, B A I Rajakarier, A Z Hashim
Rs.152,000,000
86.90%
No.117,Chittampalam A,Gardiner 
Mawatha,Colombo - 02
Tel. 2306546
K D Weerasinghe, K C Subasinghe, A Z Hashim
Rs.120,000
100%
No.93,1st Avenue, Muturajawela, Hendala, Wattala
Tel. 4819560
K D Weerasinghe, K C Subasinghe, A Z Hashim
Rs.120,000,000
86.90%
No.186, Vauxhall street, Colombo 02
Tel. 2149994 / 2335880
K N J Balendra – Chairperson
J G A Cooray, E H Wijenaike, A S Jayatilleke, 
S K L Obeyesekere, A K Gunaratne, A Goonetilleke, 
A Z Hashim
Rs.150,000,000
37.62%
No.117,Sir Chittampalam A Gardiner 
Mawatha,Colombo - 02
Tel. 2306000
K M Thanthirige, D P Gamlath
Rs.150,000
100%
No 148, Vauxhall street,Colombo 02
Tel. 2475308
K C Subasinghe, K D Weerasinghe, D P Gamlath
Rs.14,500,000
100%
No.117,Sir Chittampalam A Gardiner 
Mawatha,Colombo - 02
Tel. 2306000
K N J Balendra - Chairperson
J G A Cooray - Deputy Chairperson, D A Cabraal, 
A N Fonseka, M P Perera, S S H Wijayasuriya, S M Coorey
Rs.73,187,861,000
98.05%
No.117,Chittampalam A,Gardiner 
Mawatha,Colombo - 02
Tel. 2306000 /2421101-9
D P Gamlath, K M Thanthirige, N W Tambiah
Rs.1,991,600,000
100%
No.16 Collyer Quay, Level 21, Office Suit No.21-38, 
Singapore 049318
Tel. 65 63296409/ 65 68189150/ 65 96346593
 J G A Cooray - Chairperson
K M Thanthirige, K C Subasinghe, D P Gamlath, 
R Ponnampalam
Rs.9,638,000
80%
No.117,Chittampalam A,Gardiner 
Mawatha,Colombo - 02
Tel. 2421101-9
K M Thanthirige, N W Tambiah, I V Gunasekera, C 
Subasinghe
Rs.160,000
100%
No. 148, Vauxhall Street,Colombo 2.
Tel. 2475308
K M Thanthirige, K C Subasinghe
Rs.5,500
100%

326 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING
Description
Rs.000
Reference
Page No
Sri Lanka
India Mauritius
Republic
of
Maldives
Singapore
Total
a) 	 All tax jurisdictions included in 
Consolidated Financial Statements
Note 21.10
260
b)
i.	
Names of the resident entities
Group Directory
316-325
ii. 	 Primary activities of the organization
Group Directory
316-325
iii. 	 Number of employees
 15,228 
 - 
 - 
 715 
 - 
 15,943 
iv. 	 Revenues from third-party sales
 254,035,299 
 - 
 -  22,604,608 
 -  276,639,907 
v. 	 Revenues from intra-group 
transactions with other tax jurisdictions
vi. 	 Profit/loss before tax
 21,494,769 
 (781)
 51,260  1,016,626 
 27,543 
 22,589,417 
vii. Tangible assets other than cash and 
cash equivalents
 432,027,608 
 - 
 -  58,037,899 
 391  490,065,898 
viii. Corporate income tax paid on a cash 
basis
Not Applicable
ix. 	 Corporate income tax accrued on 
profit/loss
 (5,190,163)
 - 
 (7,712)
 (51,487)
 (2,336)
 (5,251,698)
x. 	 Reasons for the difference between 
corporate income tax accrued on 
profit/loss and the tax due if the 
statutory tax rate is applied to profit/
loss before tax
Note 21.5
258
c) 	 The time period covered by the 
information reported in Disclosure  
207-4.
Year ended 31st 
March 2023
d)	 Capital expenditure incurred during 
the year
 6,291,111 
 - 
-
 782,747 
-
 7,073,858 
 289,936 
 2,269 
-
 292,205 
e)	 Community contribution
 - 
-
GRI - DISCLOSURE 207-4

327
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
GRI CONTENT INDEX
GRI 
STANDARD/  
OTHER 
SOURCE
DISCLOSURE
LOCATION
OMISSION
GRI SECTOR 
STANDARD 
REF. NO.
REQUIREMENT(S)  
OMITTED
REASON
EXPLANATION
General disclosures
GRI 2: General 
Disclosures 
2021
2-1 Organizational details
a, b, c, d - About us (7)
A gray cell indicates that reasons for omission are 
not permitted for the disclosure or that a GRI Sector 
Standard reference number is not available.
2-2 Entities included in the 
organization’s sustainability 
reporting
a, b, c - Group directory (316 - 325) and Scope 
and boundary (5)
2-3 Reporting period, 
frequency and contact 
point
a, b, c, d - Corporate information section (340) 
and Scope and boundary (5)
2-4 Restatements of 
information
a. 	 Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder 
Engagement and Materiality - 
Sustainability Disclosures section (198)
2-5 External assurance
a. 	 Information Verification and Quality 
Assurance (5)
b. 	 i, ii, iii - Independent Assurance Statement 
(313 - 315)
2-6 Activities, value 
chain and other business 
relationships
a. 	 About Us (7)
b. 	 i. Social and Relationship Capital - Supply 
Chain Management (122) and Full Industry 
groups section (47 - 80)
ii. 	 Social and Relationship Capital - Supply 
Chain Management (122)
iii. 	 Industry Group Review (47 - 80)
c. 	 Social and Relationship Capital - Supply 
Chain Management (122) and Industry 
Group Review (47 - 80)
d. 	 Industry Group Review (47 - 80)
2-7 Employees
a, b, c, d, e - Human Capital Review (114)
2-8 Workers who are not 
employees
a, b, c - Human Capital Review (114)
2-9 Governance structure 
and composition
a, b, c - Corporate Governance Commentary 
(Web Version) 
3.1 Internal Governance Structure (9)
3.1.2 Board composition (9)
3.1.3 Board Skills (9)
3.2 Board Sub Committees (13)
(9 - 19 https://www.keells.com/resource/
reports/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-
PLC-AR-2022_23-Corporate-Governance.pdf)
Corporate Governance - Board Skills (178 - 179)
2-10 Nomination and 
selection of the highest 
governance body
a, b - Corporate Governance Commentary 
(Web Version)- 
1.4.1 Board Diversity (4)
1.4.2 Board Independence (4)
3.1.2 Board Composition Graph (9)
3.2.3 Nominations committee (17)
(https://www.keells.com/resource/reports/
governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC-AR-
2022_23-Corporate-Governance.pdf)

328 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
GRI 
STANDARD/  
OTHER 
SOURCE
DISCLOSURE
LOCATION
OMISSION
GRI SECTOR 
STANDARD 
REF. NO.
REQUIREMENT(S)  
OMITTED
REASON
EXPLANATION
2-11 Chair of the highest 
governance body
Corporate Governance Commentary - 
Combined Chairperson - CEO Role (187) 
2-12 Role of the highest 
governance body 
in overseeing the 
management of impacts
a, b, c - Corporate Governance Commentary 
(Web Version) 
1.4.4 Increasing Emphasis on ESG aspects (5)
3.1.1 Board Responsibilities (9)
4.1 Strategy Formulation and Decision Making 
Process (22)
4.6 Stakeholder Management and Effective 
Communication (26-27)
4.7 Sustainability Governance (28)
(https://www.keells.com/resource/reports/
governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC-AR-
2022_23-Corporate-Governance.pdf)
2-13 Delegation of 
responsibility for managing 
impacts
Corporate website -Leadership Section - GOC 
member profiles 
Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder 
Engagement and Materiality (198)
Sustainability Organization Structure (198)
Corporate Governance Commentary(Web 
Version) - 
4.6 Stakeholder Management and Effective 
Communication (26-27)
(https://www.keells.com/resource/reports/
governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC-AR-
2022_23-Corporate-Governance.pdf)"
2-14 Role of the highest 
governance body in 
sustainability reporting
(a) Chairperson's Message (10)
2-15 Conflicts of interest
Corporate Governance Commentary - 
Managing Conflict of Interest and Ensuring 
Independence (180)
2-16 Communication of 
critical concerns
Corporate Governance Commentary- Ombuds 
person (191)
Corporate Governance Commentary (Web 
Version) - 5 Assurance Mechanisms (28) 
(https://www.keells.com/resource/reports/
governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC-AR-
2022_23-Corporate-Governance.pdf)
2-17 Collective knowledge 
of the highest governance 
body
Corporate Governance Commentary (Web 
Version) : 
3.1.4 Access to Independent Professional 
Advice (9)
3.1.6 Board Induction and Training (10)
(https://www.keells.com/resource/reports/
governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC-AR-
2022_23-Corporate-Governance.pdf)
GRI CONTENT INDEX

329
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
GRI 
STANDARD/  
OTHER 
SOURCE
DISCLOSURE
LOCATION
OMISSION
GRI SECTOR 
STANDARD 
REF. NO.
REQUIREMENT(S)  
OMITTED
REASON
EXPLANATION
2-18 Evaluation of the 
performance of the highest 
governance body
Corporate Governance Commentary (Web 
Version) : 
3.1.10 Board evaluation (11)
3.3.2 Chairperson - CEO Appraisal (20)
(https://www.keells.com/resource/reports/
governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC-AR-
2022_23-Corporate-Governance.pdf)
2-19 Remuneration policies
Corporate Governance Commentary (Web 
Version) : 
3.1.12 Director Remuneration (13)
3.2.2. Human Resources and Compensation 
Committee (16)
(https://www.keells.com/resource/reports/
governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC-AR-
2022_23-Corporate-Governance.pdf)
2-20 Process to determine 
remuneration
Corporate Governance Commentary (Web 
Version) : 
3.2.2.1 Report of the Human Resources and 
Compensation Committee (16)
4.2.2 Performance Based Compensation 
Philosophy (24)
(https://www.keells.com/resource/reports/
governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC-AR-
2022_23-Corporate-Governance.pdf)
2-21 Annual total 
compensation ratio
Confidentiality 
constraints
The Group 
does not 
presently 
disclose 
this due to 
limitations 
in providing 
representative 
detail in the 
context of a 
diversified 
company.
2-22 Statement on 
sustainable development 
strategy
Chairperson's Message (10)

330 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
GRI 
STANDARD/  
OTHER 
SOURCE
DISCLOSURE
LOCATION
OMISSION
GRI SECTOR 
STANDARD 
REF. NO.
REQUIREMENT(S)  
OMITTED
REASON
EXPLANATION
2-23 Policy commitments
a) 	 i to iv - Corporate Governance 
Commentary - Assurance Mechanism 
- JKH code of conduct (188) and Social 
and Relationship Capital - Supply Chain 
Management (122)
b)	 Corporate Governance Commentary - Key 
Internal Policies (175)
c)	 Corporate Governance Commentary - Key 
Internal Policies (175)
d)	 Corporate Governance Commentary - 
Combined Chairperson - CEO role (187)
e)	 Social and Relationship Capital - Supply 
Chain Management (122)
f)	 Social and Relationship Capital - Supply 
Chain Management (122), Corporate 
Governance Commentary(Web 
version) - Policy for bidding on contracts 
and tenders, Corporate Governance 
Commentary (Web version) - 1.4.8 Greater 
Employee Involvement in Governance (6) 
(https://www.keells.com/resource/reports/
governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC-AR-
2022_23-Corporate-Governance.pdf)
2-24 Embedding policy 
commitments
a)	
i) 	 Corporate Governance Commentary (Web 
Version) - 3.4 Group Executive Committee 
and Other Management Committes (20)
ii) 	 Risk opportunities and Internal controls 
- Risk Management process, Corporate 
Governance Commentary (Web version) 
- Policy for bidding on contracts and 
tenders 
(https://www.keells.com/resource/reports/
governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC-AR-
2022_23-Risk.pdf)
iii)	 Corporate Governance Commentary (Web 
Version) - 4.1.3 Project approval process, 
Social and Relationship Capital - Supply 
Chain Management (23)
iv)	 Corporate Governance Commentary 
(Web Version) - 5.5 Internal Controls (30) 
(https://www.keells.com/resource/reports/
governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC-AR-
2022_23-Corporate-Governance.pdf)
2-25 Processes to 
remediate negative 
impacts
Corporate Governance Commentary (Web 
Version) - 
5.5.4 Internal audit (31), 5.6 Ombudsperson 
(32) 5.4 Employee Participation in Assurance 
(30)
(https://www.keells.com/resource/reports/
governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC-AR-
2022_23-Corporate-Governance.pdf)
GRI CONTENT INDEX

331
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
GRI 
STANDARD/  
OTHER 
SOURCE
DISCLOSURE
LOCATION
OMISSION
GRI SECTOR 
STANDARD 
REF. NO.
REQUIREMENT(S)  
OMITTED
REASON
EXPLANATION
2-26 Mechanisms for 
seeking advice and raising 
concerns
Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder 
Management and Materiality - Our 
Stakeholders (199 - 200)
Corporate Governance Commentary 
(Web Version) - 5.6 Ombudsperson (32) 
(https://www.keells.com/resource/reports/
governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC-AR-
2022_23-Corporate-Governance.pdf)
2-27 Compliance with laws 
and regulations
Corporate Governance Commentary (Web 
Version) (https://www.keells.com/resource/
reports/governance/John-Keells-Holdings-
PLC-AR-2022_23-Corporate-Governance.pdf)
Investor Relations - Group Highlights (23 - 29)
2-28 Membership 
associations
Corporate Governance Commentary- Profiles 
of the Board of Directors (178 - 179)
2-29 Approach to 
stakeholder engagement
Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder 
Management and Materiality - Our 
Stakeholders (199 - 200)
2-30 Collective bargaining 
agreements
Human capital section - Collective Bargaining 
(116)
Material topics
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-1 Process to determine 
material topics
Introduction - Determining Materiality (5 - 6)
Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder 
Management and Materiality (200 - 201)
A gray cell indicates that reasons for omission are 
not permitted for the disclosure or that a GRI Sector 
Standard reference number is not available.
3-2 List of material topics
Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder 
Management and Materiality - Materiality (200 
- 201)
Economic performance
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of 
material topics
Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder 
Management and Materiality - Materiality (200 
- 201)
Management Approach Disclosures 
(4) (https://www.keells.com/
resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2022_23.pdf)
GRI 201: 
Economic 
Performance 
2016
201-1 Direct economic 
value generated and 
distributed
Economic Value Added Statement (27)
201-3 Defined benefit 
plan obligations and other 
retirement plans
Human Capital - Compensation and Benefits 
(116)
Investor Relations - Human Capital (29)
Indirect economic impacts
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of 
material topics
Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder 
Management and Materiality - Materiality (200 
- 201)
Management Approach Disclosures 
(4) (https://www.keells.com/
resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2022_23.pdf)

332 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
GRI CONTENT INDEX
GRI 
STANDARD/  
OTHER 
SOURCE
DISCLOSURE
LOCATION
OMISSION
GRI SECTOR 
STANDARD 
REF. NO.
REQUIREMENT(S)  
OMITTED
REASON
EXPLANATION
GRI 203: 
Indirect 
Economic 
Impacts 2016
203-1 Infrastructure 
investments and services 
supported
Social and Relationship Capital (121 - 131)
Procurement practices
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of 
material topics
Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder 
Management and Materiality - Materiality (200 
- 201)
Management Approach Disclosures 
(11) (https://www.keells.com/
resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2022_23.pdf)
GRI 204: 
Procurement 
Practices 2016
204-1 Proportion of 
spending on local suppliers
Social and Relationship Capital Review (121)
Investor Relations - Social and Relationship 
Capital (29)
Anti-corruption
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of 
material topics
Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder 
Management and Materiality section - 
Materiality (200 - 201)
Management Approach Disclosures 
(9) (https://www.keells.com/
resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2022_23.pdf)
GRI 205: Anti-
corruption 
2016
205-1 Operations assessed 
for risks related to 
corruption
Investor Relations - Social and Relationship 
Capital (29)
Tax
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of 
material topics
Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder 
Management and Materiality section - 
Materiality (200 - 201)
Management Approach Disclosures 
(4) (https://www.keells.com/
resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2022_23.pdf)
GRI 207: Tax 
2019
207-1 Approach to tax
Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder 
Management and Materiality - Materiality (200 
- 201)
Management Approach Disclosures 
(4) (https://www.keells.com/
resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2022_23.pdf)
207-2 Tax governance, 
control, and risk 
management
Corporate Governance Commentary 
(Web Version) - 4.5 Tax Governance (26) 
(https://www.keells.com/resource/reports/
governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC-AR-
2022_23-Corporate-Governance.pdf)
207-3 Stakeholder 
engagement and 
management of concerns 
related to tax
Corporate Governance Commentary 
(Web Version) - 4.5 Tax Governance (26) 
(https://www.keells.com/resource/reports/
governance/John-Keells-Holdings-PLC-AR-
2022_23-Corporate-Governance.pdf)

333
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
GRI 
STANDARD/  
OTHER 
SOURCE
DISCLOSURE
LOCATION
OMISSION
GRI SECTOR 
STANDARD 
REF. NO.
REQUIREMENT(S)  
OMITTED
REASON
EXPLANATION
207-4 Country-by-country 
reporting
Country by Country Reporting Statement (326)
Energy
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of 
material topics
Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder 
Management and Materiality - Materiality (200 
- 201)
Management Approach Disclosures 
(5) (https://www.keells.com/
resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2022_23.pdf)
GRI 302: 
Energy 2016
302-1 Energy consumption 
within the organization
Natural Capital Review (103)
302-2 Energy consumption 
outside of the organization
Natural Capital Review (105)
302-3 Energy intensity
Natural Capital Review (106-107)
302-4 Reduction of energy 
consumption
Natural Capital Review (105)
Water and effluents	
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of 
material topics
Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder 
Management and Materiality - Materiality (200 
- 201)
Management Approach Disclosures 
(5) (https://www.keells.com/
resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2022_23.pdf)
GRI 303: Water 
and Effluents 
2018
303-1 Interactions with 
water as a shared resource
Natural Capital - Water and Effluents 
Management (107 - 108)
303-2 Management of 
water discharge-related 
impacts
Natural Capital - Water and Effluents 
Management (107 - 108)
303-3 Water withdrawal
Natural Capital - Water and Effluents 
Management (107 - 108)
303-4 Water discharge
Natural Capital - Water and Effluents 
Management (107 - 108)
Biodiversity
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of 
material topics
Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder 
Management and Materiality - Materiality (200 
- 201)
Management Approach Disclosures 
(6) (https://www.keells.com/
resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2022_23.pdf)
GRI 304: 
Biodiversity 
2016
304-1 Operational sites 
owned, leased, managed 
in, or adjacent to, protected 
areas and areas of high 
biodiversity value outside 
protected areas
Natural Capital - Biodiversity (111-112)

334 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
GRI CONTENT INDEX
GRI 
STANDARD/  
OTHER 
SOURCE
DISCLOSURE
LOCATION
OMISSION
GRI SECTOR 
STANDARD 
REF. NO.
REQUIREMENT(S)  
OMITTED
REASON
EXPLANATION
Emissions	
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of 
material topics
Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder 
Management and Materiality - Materiality (200 
- 201)
Management Approach Disclosures 
(5) (https://www.keells.com/
resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2022_23.pdf)
GRI 305: 
Emissions 
2016
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG 
emissions
Natural Capital - Carbon Footprint (106)
305-2 Energy indirect 
(Scope 2) GHG emissions
Natural Capital - Carbon Footprint (106)
305-4 GHG emissions 
intensity
Natural Capital - Carbon Footprint (106 - 107)
Waste
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of 
material topics
Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder 
Management and Materiality - Materiality (200 
- 201)
Management Approach Disclosures 
(6) (https://www.keells.com/
resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2022_23.pdf)
GRI 306: 
Waste 2020
306-1 Waste generation 
and significant waste-
related impacts
Natural Capital - Waste (109)
306-2 Management of 
significant waste-related 
impacts
Investor Relations - Natural Capital (28)
306-3 Waste generated
Natural Capital - Waste (109 - 111)
306-4 Waste diverted from 
disposal
Natural Capital - Waste (110)
306-5 Waste directed to 
disposal
Natural Capital - Waste (110)
Supplier environmental assessment
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of 
material topics
Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder 
Management and Materiality - Materiality (200 
- 201)
Management Approach Disclosures 
(5) (https://www.keells.com/
resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2022_23.pdf)
GRI 308: 
Supplier 
Environmental 
Assessment 
2016
308-1 New suppliers that 
were screened using 
environmental criteria
Investor Relations - Social and Relationship 
Capital (29)

335
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
GRI 
STANDARD/  
OTHER 
SOURCE
DISCLOSURE
LOCATION
OMISSION
GRI SECTOR 
STANDARD 
REF. NO.
REQUIREMENT(S)  
OMITTED
REASON
EXPLANATION
Employment
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of 
material topics
Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder 
Management and Materiality - Materiality (200 
- 201)
Management Approach Disclosures  
(7-9) (https://www.keells.com/
resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2022_23.pdf)
GRI 401: 
Employment 
2016
401-1 New employee hires 
and employee turnover
Human Capital Review (116)
Occupational health and safety
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of 
material topics
Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder 
Management and Materiality - Materiality (200 
- 201)
Management Approach Disclosures  
(8-9) (https://www.keells.com/
resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2022_23.pdf)
GRI 403: 
Occupational 
Health and 
Safety 2018
403-1 Occupational health 
and safety management 
system
Human Capital - Health and Safety (120)
403-2 Hazard identification, 
risk assessment, and 
incident investigation
Human Capital - Health and Safety (120)
403-3 Occupational health 
services
Human Capital - Health and Safety (120)
403-4 Worker participation, 
consultation, and 
communication on 
occupational health and 
safety
Human Capital - Health and Safety (120)
403-5 Worker training on 
occupational health and 
safety
Human Capital - Health and Safety (120)
403-6 Promotion of worker 
health
Human Capital - Health and Safety (120)
403-7 Prevention and 
mitigation of occupational 
health and safety impacts 
directly linked by business 
relationships
Human Capital - Health and Safety (120)
403-8 Workers covered by 
an occupational health and 
safety management system
Human Capital - Health and Safety (120)
403-9 Work-related injuries
Human Capital - Health and Safety (120)

336 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
GRI CONTENT INDEX
GRI 
STANDARD/  
OTHER 
SOURCE
DISCLOSURE
LOCATION
OMISSION
GRI SECTOR 
STANDARD 
REF. NO.
REQUIREMENT(S)  
OMITTED
REASON
EXPLANATION
Training and education
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of 
material topics
Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder 
Management and Materiality - Materiality (200 
- 201)
Management Approach Disclosures 
(8) (https://www.keells.com/
resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2022_23.pdf)
GRI 404: 
Training and 
Education 
2016
404-1 Average hours 
of training per year per 
employee
Human Capital - Learning and Development 
(117)
404-3 Percentage of 
employees receiving 
regular performance 
and career development 
reviews
Investor Relations - Human Capital (29)
Diversity and equal opportunity
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of 
material topics
Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder 
Management and Materiality - Materiality (200 
- 201)
Management Approach Disclosures 
(8) (https://www.keells.com/
resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2022_23.pdf)
GRI 405: 
Diversity 
and Equal 
Opportunity 
2016
405-1 Diversity of 
governance bodies and 
employees
Corporate Governance Commentary - Board 
Diversity (192), Human Capital- Diveristy, 
Equity & Inlcusion (118)
Freedom of association and collective bargaining
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of 
material topics
Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder 
Management and Materiality - Materiality (200 
- 201)
Management Approach Disclosures 
(8) (https://www.keells.com/
resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2022_23.pdf)
GRI 407: 
Freedom of 
Association 
and Collective 
Bargaining 
2016
407-1 Operations and 
suppliers in which the right 
to freedom of association 
and collective bargaining 
may be at risk
Human Capital (114 - 120)
Investor Relations - Social and Relationship 
Capital (29)

 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
337
GRI 
STANDARD/  
OTHER 
SOURCE
DISCLOSURE
LOCATION
OMISSION
GRI SECTOR 
STANDARD 
REF. NO.
REQUIREMENT(S)  
OMITTED
REASON
EXPLANATION
Child labor
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of 
material topics
Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder 
Management and Materiality - Materiality (200 
- 201)
Management Approach Disclosures 
(9) (https://www.keells.com/
resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2022_23.pdf)
GRI 408: Child 
Labor 2016
408-1 Operations and 
suppliers at significant risk 
for incidents of child labor
Investor Relations - Social and Relationship 
Capital (29)
Forced or compulsory labor
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of 
material topics
Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder 
Management and Materiality - Materiality (200 
- 201)
Management Approach Disclosures 
(9) (https://www.keells.com/
resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2022_23.pdf)
GRI 409: 
Forced or 
Compulsory 
Labor 2016
409-1 Operations and 
suppliers at significant risk 
for incidents of forced or 
compulsory labor
Investor Relations - Human Capital (29)
Local communities
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of 
material topics
Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder 
Management and Materiality - Materiality (200 
- 201)
Management Approach Disclosures 
(12) (https://www.keells.com/
resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2022_23.pdf)
GRI 413: Local 
Communities 
2016
413-1 Operations with local 
community engagement, 
impact assessments, and 
development programs
Social and Relationship Capital- Social 
Resposinbility (125)
Supplier social assessment
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of 
material topics
Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder 
Management and Materiality 
Management Approach Disclosures 
(11) (https://www.keells.com/
resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2022_23.pdf)
GRI 414: 
Supplier 
Social 
Assessment 
2016
414-1 New suppliers that 
were screened using social 
criteria
Investor Relations - Social and Relationship 
Capital (29)

338 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
GRI CONTENT INDEX
GRI 
STANDARD/  
OTHER 
SOURCE
DISCLOSURE
LOCATION
OMISSION
GRI SECTOR 
STANDARD 
REF. NO.
REQUIREMENT(S)  
OMITTED
REASON
EXPLANATION
Customer health and safety
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of 
material topics
Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder 
Management and Materiality 
Management Approach Disclosures 
(14) (https://www.keells.com/
resource/Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2022_23.pdf)
GRI 416: 
Customer 
Health and 
Safety 2016
416-1 Assessment of the 
health and safety impacts 
of product and service 
categories
Management Approach Disclosures (14)
(https://www.keells.com/resource/
Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2022_23.pdf)
Marketing and labeling
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of 
material topics
Sustainability Integration, Stakeholder 
Management and Materiality 
Management Approach Disclosures (14)
(https://www.keells.com/resource/
Management_Approach_
Disclosures_2022_23.pdf)
GRI 417: 
Marketing 
and Labeling 
2016
417-1 Requirements 
for product and service 
information and labeling
Intellectual Capital Review (132 - 134), Investor 
Relations - Social and Relationship Capital (29)
417-2 Incidents of non-
compliance concerning 
product and service 
information and labeling
Investor Relations - Social and Relationship 
Capital (29)
417-3 Incidents of non-
compliance concerning 
marketing communications
Investor Relations - Social and Relationship 
Capital (29)

339
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
NOTICE OF MEETING - ANNUAL GENERAL 
MEETING
Notice is hereby given that the Forty Fourth Annual General Meeting (AGM) of John Keells Holdings PLC will be held as a virtual meeting on 30 June 
2023 at 10.00 a.m. 
The business to be brought before the Meeting will be to:
1.	 read the Notice convening the Meeting. 
2. 	 receive and consider the Annual Report and Financial Statements for the Financial Year ended 31 March 2023 with the Report of the Auditors 
thereon. 
3. 	 re-elect as Director, Mr. D A Cabraal who retires in terms of Article 84 of the Articles of Association of the Company. A brief profile of Mr. D A Cabraal 
is contained in the Corporate Governance Commentary of the Annual Report. 
4. 	 re-elect as Director, Mr. J G A Cooray, who retires in terms of Article 84 of the Articles of Association of the Company. A brief profile of Mr. J G A Cooray 
is contained in the Corporate Governance Commentary of the Annual Report. 
5. 	 re-elect as Director, Dr. S A Coorey who retires in terms of Article 91 of the Articles of Association of the Company. A brief profile of Dr. S A Coorey is 
contained in the Corporate Governance Commentary of the Annual Report. 
6. 	 re-appoint as Director, Mr. A N Fonseka who has attained the age of 70 years and who retires in terms of Section 210 of the Companies Act No. 7 of 
2007, for which the passing of the following ordinary resolution is recommended by the Company:
	
“THAT the age limit stipulated in Section 210 of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007 shall not apply to Mr. A N Fonseka who is 70 years and that he be 
re-elected a Director of the Company.”
7.	 re-appoint the Auditors and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
8.	 consider any other business of which due notice has been given in terms of the relevant laws and regulations.
The Annual Report of John Keells Holdings PLC for 2022/23, is accessible via: 
(1) 	 The Corporate Website – https://www.keells.com/investor-relations/#latest-financials 
(2)	 The Colombo Stock Exchange – https://www.cse.lk/pages/company-profile/company-profile.component.html?symbol=JKH.N0000
(3)	 The following QR Code (accessible through mobile devices):
Should Members wish to obtain a hard copy of the Annual Report, they may send a request to the Company by filling the Form of Request attached 
to the Form of Proxy. A printed copy of the Annual Report will be forwarded by the Company within eight (8) market days, subject to the prevailing 
circumstances at the time, from the date of receipt of the request.
By Order of the Board
John Keells Holdings PLC
Keells Consultants (Private) Limited
Secretaries
23 May 2023
Notes: 
i.	
A Member unable to attend the Meeting is entitled to appoint a Proxy to attend and vote in his/her place.
ii.	
A Proxy need not be a Member of the Company.
iii.	 A Member wishing to vote by Proxy at the Meeting may use the Form of Proxy enclosed herein.
iv.	 Members are encouraged to vote by Proxy through the appointment of a member of the Board of Directors to vote on their behalf and to include 
their voting preferences on the resolutions to be taken up at the Meeting in the Form of Proxy 
v.	
In order to be valid, the completed Form of Proxy must be lodged at the Registered Office of the Company not less than 48 hours before the Meeting.
vi.	 A vote can be taken on a show of hands or by a poll. If a poll is demanded, each share is entitled to one vote. Votes can be cast in person, by proxy 
or corporate representatives. In the event an individual Member and his/her Proxy holder are both present at the Meeting, only the Member’s vote is 
counted. If the Proxy holder’s appointor has indicated the manner of voting, only the appointor’s indication of the manner to vote will be used.
vii.	 Instructions as to attending the virtual Meeting: https://www.keells.com/resource/agm-notices/AGM-2022-23-John-Keells-Holdings-PLC.pdf

340 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
CORPORATE INFORMATION
NAME OF COMPANY
John Keells Holdings PLC
LEGAL FORM
Public Limited Liability Company
Incorporated in Sri Lanka in 1979
Ordinary Shares listed on the Colombo Stock Exchange
GDRs listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange
COMPANY REGISTRATION NO.
PQ 14
DIRECTORS
K N J Balendra - Chairperson/CEO
J G A Cooray - Deputy Chairperson/Group Finance Director
D A Cabraal
S A Coorey
A N Fonseka
M P Perera
S S H Wijayasuriya 
SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR
A N Fonseka 
AUDIT COMMITTEE
A N Fonseka - Chairperson
D A Cabraal
M P Perera
HUMAN RESOURCES AND COMPENSATION COMMITTEE
D A Cabraal - Chairperson
A N Fonseka
S S H Wijayasuriya
NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE
D A Cabraal - Chairperson
K N J Balendra
M P Perera
S S H Wijayasuriya
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTION REVIEW COMMITTEE	
M P Perera - Chairperson	
D A Cabraal	
A N Fonseka
PROJECT RISK ASSESSMENT COMMITTEE
S S H Wijayasuriya - Chairperson
K N J Balendra
J G A Cooray 
M P Perera	
	
REGISTERED OFFICE OF THE COMPANY	
117 Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha,	
Colombo 2, Sri Lanka	
Telephone 	 : 	+94 11 230 6000	
Internet 	
: 	www.keells.com	
Email 	
: 	jkh@keells.com	
	
SECRETARIES	
Keells Consultants (Private) Limited	
117 Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha,	
Colombo 2, Sri Lanka	
Telephone 	 : 	+94 11 230 6245	
Facsimile 	
: 	+94 11 243 9037	
Email 	
: 	keellsconsultants@keells.com	
	
INVESTOR RELATIONS	
John Keells Holdings PLC	
117 Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha,	
Colombo 2, Sri Lanka	
Telephone 	 : 	+94 11 230 6170	
Facsimile 	
: 	+94 11 230 6160	
Email 	
: 	investor.relations@keells.com	
	
SUSTAINABILITY, ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT AND GROUP 
INITIATIVES	
186 Vauxhall Street	
Colombo 2, Sri Lanka	
Telephone 	 : 	+94 11 230 6182	
Facsimile 	
: 	+94 11 230 6249	
Email 	
: 	sustainability@keells.com	
	
CONTACT FOR MEDIA	
Corporate Communications Division	
John Keells Holdings PLC	
117 Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha,	
Colombo 2, Sri Lanka	
Telephone 	 : 	+94 11 230 6191	
Email 	
: 	jkh@keells.com
AUDITORS
Ernst & Young
Chartered Accountants
P.O. Box 101
Colombo, Sri Lanka
BANKERS FOR THE COMPANY
Bank of Ceylon
Citibank N.A.
Commercial Bank of Ceylon
Deutsche Bank A.G.
DFCC Bank
Hatton National Bank
Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation
Nations Trust Bank
People’s Bank
Sampath Bank
Seylan Bank
Standard Chartered Bank
DEPOSITORY FOR GDRS
Citibank N.A. New York

341
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
NOTES

342 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
NOTES

343
 Navigating Our Value Creation Journey      Group Highlights      Management Discussion and Analysis      Governance      Financial Statements      Supplementary Information
FORM OF PROXY - ANNUAL GENERAL 
MEETING
I/We ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ of
............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ being a member/s of John Keells Holdings PLC hereby appoint 
................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. of 
............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. or failing him/her
MR. KRISHAN NIRAJ JAYASEKARA BALENDRA 	
	
	
or failing him
MR. JOSEPH GIHAN ADISHA COORAY	
	
	
or failing him
MR. DAMIEN AMAL CABRAAL	
	
	
or failing him
MR. ANTHONY NIHAL FONSEKA 	
	
	
or failing him
MS. MARIE PREMILA PERERA	
	
	
or failing her
DR. SHRIDHIR SARIPUTTA HANSA WIJAYASURIYA	
	
	
or failing him
DR. SHARMINI AMRITA COOREY
as my/our proxy to represent me/us and vote on my/our behalf at the Forty Fourth Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on 30 June 2023 
at 10.00 a.m. and at any adjournment thereof, and at every poll which may be taken in consequence thereof.
I/We, the undersigned, hereby direct my/our proxy to vote for me/us and on my/our behalf on the specified Resolution as indicated by the letter “X” in 
the appropriate cage:
FOR
AGAINST
To re-elect as a Director, Mr. D A Cabraal , who retires in terms of Article 84 of the Articles of Association of the Company.
To re-elect as a Director, Mr. J G A Cooray who retires in terms of Article 84 of the Articles of Association of the Company.
To re-elect as a Director, Dr. S A Coorey who retires in terms of Article 91 of the Articles of Association of the Company.
To re–elect as a Director, Mr. A N Fonseka who attained the age of 70 years and who retires in terms of Section 210 of the 
Companies Act No. 7 of 2007
To re-appoint the Auditors and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
Signed on this ………………… day of …………………… Two Thousand and Twenty-Three.
……………………………. 
Signature/s of Shareholder/s
NOTE:
INSTRUCTIONS AS TO THE COMPLETION OF THE FORM OF PROXY ARE NOTED ON THE REVERSE.

344 
John Keells Holdings PLC	 |	 Annual Report 2022/23
INSTRUCTIONS AS TO COMPLETION OF PROXY
1.	 Please perfect the Form of Proxy by filling in legibly your full name and address, signing 
in the space provided and filling in the date of signature.
2. 	 The completed Form of Proxy should be deposited at the Registered Office of the Company 
at No. 117, Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha, Colombo 2, or forwarded by fax to  
+94 11 243 9037, or e-mailed to keellsconsultants@keells.com no later than 48 hours 
before the time appointed for the convening of the Meeting.
3. 	 If the Form of Proxy is signed by an Attorney, the relevant Power of Attorney should 
accompany the completed Form of Proxy for registration, if such Power of Attorney has 
not already been registered with the Company.
4. 	 If the appointor is a company or corporation, the Form of Proxy should be executed 
under its Common Seal or by a duly authorised officer of the company or corporation in 
accordance with its Articles of Association or Constitution.
5. 	 If this Form of Proxy is returned without any indication of how the person appointed as 
Proxy shall vote, then the Proxy shall exercise his/her discretion as to how he/she votes 
or, whether or not he/she abstains from voting.
Please fill in the following details: 
Name	
: ..........................................................................................................................................................................
Address	
: ..........................................................................................................................................................................
	
 ...........................................................................................................................................................................
	
 ...........................................................................................................................................................................
Jointly with	
: ..........................................................................................................................................................................
Share Folio No.	 : ..........................................................................................................................................................................
NIC No.	
: ..........................................................................................................................................................................

Designed & produced by
Digital Plates & Printing by Softwave Printing and Packaging (Pvt) Ltd

www.keells.com
