John Keells Holdings PLC
Annual Report 2023/24
Dreams to Life


The John Keells Group has spent the past 150 years in diversifying our business sectors, while ensuring that 
good governance, social responsibility and sustainability remain the guiding principles of all that we do. We are 
committed to enhancing and advancing our business model to deliver value to our stakeholders, while actively 
participating in the broader economic activities of our nation. 
Although the past years have been daunting, the country and its citizens have yet again proved themselves to 
be resilient and spirited in difficult times. A more stable economic atmosphere now prevails and we have great 
confidence in the potential for growth and development in the future, both for the nation and our Group.
2024 marks a significant culmination of events for the Group's iconic integrated resort, which has been under 
construction over the last decade - the largest and most ambitious private sector investment in the country, 
valued at over USD 1 billion. The Group announced the successful achievement of a game-changing partnership, 
in which global hospitality and entertainment giant Melco Resorts & Entertainment Limited will partner John 
Keells in launching 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka', previously known as 'Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort'.  
'City of Dreams Sri Lanka' is an iconic project that was conceived over a decade ago; a one-of-a-kind venture that 
will undoubtedly transform Colombo into a preferred destination for leisure and entertainment in the region, 
offering world-class shopping and lifestyle and entertainment spaces while re-imagining the ways in which 
people live, work and play. The project embraces the shifts of modern-day Sri Lanka, and creates employment 
opportunities for thousands of Sri Lankans. 
The West Container Terminal project remains firmly on track for commencement in early 2025. This terminal will 
add the vital deep-water capacity to the Port of Colombo, catalysing the significance of the Port of Colombo in 
the region, once operational. Our dreams have not been limited to our large and transformational projects. We 
have made significant strides in many of our other businesses as well. From advanced analytics and data-driven 
decision-making, to a preliminary foray into the Indian market with our Beverages, even as we play our part to 
improve the nation's carbon footprint by introducing energy efficient vehicles into the market, we have brought 
to life our vision of transformation in multiple ways. 
As a humble contributor to the wealth and prosperity of our stakeholders and the nation, the Group constantly 
evaluates and reviews the decisions we make and our plans for the future; the planning and thought that lie 
at the heart of all that we choose to do. As we go forward, we will continue to expand, strengthen and, where 
necessary, re-design our industry portfolio, as we look to grow with the nation, by bringing 'dreams to life'.
John Keells Holdings PLC 
Dreams to Life

2 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
REPORTING UNIVERSE
In furtherance of the Group's comprehensive and integrated environmental, social and governance (ESG) reporting framework, the 2023/24 JKH 
Annual Report continues to be supplemented by various online publications and additional information, as outlined below.
Aspects we cover:
FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL 
REPORTING
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL 
REPORTING
GOVERNANCE AND RISK 
MANAGEMENT REPORTING
COVERAGE
	y
Contains information relating to the 
Group's financial performance and 
position, both annually and quarterly. 
The information is also complemented 
through details of key operational 
indicators and justification of 
performance.
	y
Includes regulatory disclosures.
Covers how the Group uses its expertise to 
create positive economic, environmental and 
societal impacts. Also contains discussions 
on the impact that the Group has created.
Contains information and disclosures 
relating to aspects linked to governance, 
including board matters, ethics, key risks, risk 
management, and director remuneration. 
Disclosures demonstrate the manner in 
which the Group operates; through sound 
governance practices, and the highest 
standards of ethics, integrity, transparency 
and accountability.
Also entails the circulars to shareholders, 
notices of meeting and forms of proxies. 
STAKEHOLDERS 
CONCERNED
Primarily of interest to capital providers and 
regulators. 
Primarily of interest to investors, prospective 
and current employees, regulators, non-
governmental organisations (NGOs), 
customers and society. 
Primarily of interest to capital providers, 
customers, employees, regulators, suppliers 
and members of society.
Key Reporting Channels: 
Frequency:  A   Annually 
 
Q   Quarterly 
 
R   Regularly
2023/24 JKH Annual Report
A
Corporate Website
R
https://www.keells.com/
Dedicated website for Group's Corporate 
Social Responsibility
R
Market announcements
R
Corporate Governance 
Framework
R
Communication on progress for the 
UN Global Compact
A
Investor Presentations/Updates
A
Q
Recordings of Investor Webinars
A
Q
Performance and disclosures for Transparency 
in Corporate Reporting (published by 
Transparency International Sri Lanka)
R
Social media updates of key highlights 
through LinkedIn, Facebook and Instagram
R
https://www.facebook.com/johnkeells/
https://www.instagram.com/lifeatjkh/?hl=en 
Dedicated website for Group's Social 
Entrepreneurship Project aimed at 
reducing plastic pollution
R
Notice of meeting and related proxies
R
https://www.keells.com/
resource/reports/annual-reports/
John_Keells_Holdings_PLC_
AR_2023_24_CSE.pdf
https://www.keells.com/investor-
relations/#annual-reports
https://www.keells.com/investor-
relations/#annual-reports
https://www.cse.lk/
pages/company-profile/
company-profile.component.
html?symbol=JKH.N0000
https://www.cse.lk/
pages/company-profile/
company-profile.component.
html?symbol=JKH.N0000
https://cop-report. 
unglobalcompact.org/
COPViewer/2023?responseId= 
R_40YXUOrzuarr2cv
https://www.
johnkeellsfoundation.com/
https://www.keells.com/resource/
reports/governance/John-Keells-
Holdings-PLC-AR-2023_24-
Corporate-Governance.pdf
https://www.keells.com/
esg/#plasticcycle
https://www.tisrilanka.org/
trac2023/
https://lk.linkedin.com/company/john-keells-
holdings 

Navigating Our Value Creation Journey • Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
CONTENTS
Navigating Our Value 
Creation Journey
Group Highlights
Chairperson's Message
Investor Relations
Industry Group Review
Strategy, Resource 
Allocation and Portfolio 
Management
City of Dreams Sri Lanka
Management Discussion 
and Analysis
Governance
Financial Statements
Supplementary 
Information
2	
Reporting Universe 
3 	
Contents 
4 	
Introduction to the Report
7 	
About Us
8 	
Chairperson's Message
22 	
Investor Relations
22	
Group Highlights
29	
Industry Group Highlights
Group Consolidated Review
41	
Operating Environment
48	
Our Business Model 
51	
Financial and Manufactured Capital Review
63	
Natural Capital Review
79	
Human Capital Review
89	
Social and Relationship Capital Review
103	 Intellectual Capital Review
107	 Group Outlook and Risks
107	 Macroeconomic Outlook
109	 Group Outlook
113	 Key Risks
119	 Group Strategy, Resource Allocation and Portfolio Management
124	 Share Information 
Industry Group Review
135	 Transportation
145	 Consumer Foods
156	 Retail
166	 Leisure
182	 Property
189	 Financial Services
197	 Other, including Information Technology and Plantation Services
207	 Board and Management Profiles 
207	 Board of Directors
209	 Group Executive Committee
210	 Group Operating Committee 
213	 Corporate Governance Commentary
217	 Internal Governance Structure
233	 Integrated Governance Systems and Procedures
243	 Assurance Mechanisms
248	 Governance Outlook and Emerging Challenges 
250	 Compliance Summary
256	 Stakeholder Engagement 
258	 Determining Materiality
8
22
135
119
171
Group Outlook and Risks
107
3
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey • Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Corporate Governance 
Commentary
Stakeholder Engagement
Determining Materiality
213
256
258
Each Review will comprise of the following sections:
•	 3-year Performance KPIs
•	 External Environment and Operational Review
•	 Financial Performance Review
•	 Outlook and Risks
265	
Annual Report of the Board of Directors
270	
The Statement of Directors' Responsibility
271	
Independent Auditors' Report
274	
Income Statement
275	
Statement of Comprehensive Income
276	
Statement of Financial Position
277	
Statement of Cash Flows
278	
Statement of Changes in Equity
280	
Notes to the Financial Statements
366	
History of the John Keells Group
367	
Decade at a Glance
368	
Economic Value Statement
370	
Indicative US Dollar Financial Statements
371	
Group Real Estate Portfolio
374	
Glossary
375	
Independent Assurance Statement on Non-Financial Reporting
378	
Group Directory
388	
Country by Country Reporting Disclosures
389	
GRI Content Index
401	
Notice of Meeting
402	
Corporate Information
403	
Form of Proxy

4 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
Narrative Reporting 
	y
International <IR> Framework of the 
IIRC
Governance, Risk Management and 
Operations
	y
Companies Act No. 7 of 2007 
	y
Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock 
Exchange (CSE)
	y
Securities and Exchange Commission 
of Sri Lanka (SEC) Act No. 19 of 2021, 
including directives and circulars 
	y
Code of Best Practice on Corporate 
Governance (2013) jointly advocated 
by the SEC and the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka 
(CA Sri Lanka)* 
	y
Code of Best Practice on Corporate 
Governance (2017) issued by CA 
Sri Lanka, to the extent of business 
exigency and as required by the 
Group*
	y
Code of Best Practices on Related 
Party Transactions (2013) advocated 
by the SEC 
Financial Reporting
	y
Sri Lanka Accounting Standards 
(SLFRS/LKAS) issued by CA Sri Lanka
	y
Companies Act No.7 of 2007
	y
Listing Rules of the CSE
Sustainability Reporting
	y
Reported in accordance with the Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards 
	y
Aligned to United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals
	y
Operations in conformity with the 
Principles of the United Nations Global 
Compact
	y
Environmental, Social and Governance 
(ESG) disclosures through the 
<IR> framework and operations in 
conformity with the Principles of the 
United Nations Global Compact
INTRODUCTION TO THE REPORT
We are pleased to present our ninth Integrated Report 
in accordance with the International <IR> Framework 
of the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). 
This Report reflects on:
	y
The value creation model of the Group, combining different forms of Capital in the short, 
medium and long-term
	y
Governance, risk management and sustainability frameworks entrenched within the John 
Keells Group
	y
Financial, operational, environmental and social review and results of the Group
INTEGRATED THINKING AND OUR INTEGRATED REPORTING PROCESS
Our Integrated Report is the outcome of a Group-wide reporting process. The process is 
governed by the Board, led by the Group Executive Committee, and delivered through Group-
wide collaboration. Our integrated-thinking approach to decision-making, management and 
reporting enables us to create and preserve value in the short, medium and long-term. The 
Report strives to deliver a balanced and relevant report that will bring clarity and detail to the 
complex task of reporting a year of diverse business operations across multiple sectors.
02	 Regulations, Standards and 
Principles
Integrated 
Reporting process:
COMPILING
VALIDATING
APPROVING
Related 
sub-processes:
01	Process of 
completing the 
Integrated Report
02	Standards and 
principles
03	Integrated Report 
and Reporting 
Principles
04	Information integrity 
verification and 
quality assurance
05	Sign-off by the 
Group Executive 
Committee
06	Board Approval
Parties involved:
Board, Group 
Executive Committee 
(GEC), Integrated 
Reporting team
Board, GEC, Internal 
Audit and External 
Auditors
Board, GEC
01	 Process of Completing the Integrated Report
	y
Prepared based on deliberations at a GEC and Board level, meeting minutes, decisions and 
approvals including frameworks as previously approved, as well as internal and external 
reporting information reflecting the Group's integrated thinking and in line with the 
International <IR> Framework. 
	y
A cross-functional team, led by the Deputy Chairperson/Group Finance Director and various 
industry group/sector representatives and subject matter experts across the Group, produces 
the content contained within this Report, with oversight from the GEC and the JKH Board of 
Directors. 
	y
The GEC and Directors actively contribute to the content of the Report and are responsible for 
reviewing and approving the reported information. All such members involved in the various 
approval processes are illustrated through the above integrated reporting process. 
	y
The Report is also supported by the oversight provided by independent assurance providers. 
	y
Whilst the cross-functional team, who has delegated authority from the Board, ultimately  
sign-off for publication, the Board provides the final approval of the Report. 
*CA Sri Lanka issued an updated Code of Best Practice 
on Corporate Governance (2023) in December 2023. The 
updated Code has been reviewed and will be adopted 
to the extent of business exigency and as required by the 
John Keells Group.

5
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey • Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
03	 Integrated Reporting and Guiding Principles
The Group has strived to deliver a comprehensive, balanced and relevant 
Report, while adhering to the recommendations of the IIRC. The seven 
guiding principles in integrated reporting, as depicted, have been given 
due consideration when preparing and presenting this Report. 
04	 Information Verification and Quality Assurance
The Chairperson-CEO, Deputy Chairperson/Group Finance Director, 
Group Executive Committee and relevant management personnel are 
responsible for disclosures made in this Report. The Group makes every 
effort to ensure the credibility, reliability and integrity of the information 
presented in the Report, including through external assurance from 
independent auditors. 
The information contained in this Report has been reviewed, as 
applicable, by:
	y
The Board of Directors
	y
Audit Committee of the Company
	y
The Group Executive Committee
	y
An independent auditor confirming the accuracy of the annual 
financial statements
	y
An external assurance has been obtained for the non-financial 
statements in this Report by an independent auditor confirming the 
accuracy of the Report which has been prepared in accordance with 
the GRI standards 2021. 
Strategic focus and 
future orientation
Conciseness
Reliability and 
completeness
Consistency and 
comparability
Connectivity of 
information
Stakeholder 
relationships
Materiality
Guiding 
Principles of the 
2023/24 JKH 
Annual Report
Financial 
Reporting 
Boundary
Non-Financial 
Reporting 
Boundary
85 legal entities of the 
John Keells Group create 
the financial reporting 
boundary of this Report.
46 companies are 
included in the non-
financial reporting scope.
REPORTING SCOPE 
Reporting Period
The John Keells Annual Report 2023/24 is a reflection of the Group's 
integrated approach of management during the period from 1 April 
2023 to 31 March 2024. Material events post this reporting period, up to 
the sign-off date by the Board of Directors on 21 May 2024, have been 
included in this Report, ensuring a more relevant and up to date Report.
Scope and Boundary
Key changes to the Group structure during the year:
	y
John Keells CG Auto (Private) Limited, a joint venture between the 
Company and Chaudhary Group, Nepal was incorporated. The purpose 
of the entity is to provide cutting-edge and eco-friendly vehicles to 
the Sri Lankan market. The entity is accounted as an equity accounted 
investee for the purposes of financial reporting. This will be included in 
the Group's non-financial reporting boundary for 2024/25. 
Changes to the sustainability reporting boundary during the year:
	y
Updated to include four new 'Keells' outlets, while removing one 
outlet that was closed.
Reasons for divergence:
The remaining companies are either: 
	y
Non-operational / investment / holding companies 
	y
Owners of real estate 
	y
Entities which the Group does not exercise significant 
management control over 
This has been indicated against each company in the Group 
Directory section of this Report.
MATERIALITY
The Group conducts an internal comprehensive materiality assessment annually, in collaboration with various sectors to assess and monitor progress 
against key sustainability concerns. This is complemented by a biennial stakeholder engagement survey, facilitated by an independent third party, 
which gauges the impact of ongoing activities and the Group's engagement, tracking performance against material topics and monitoring shifts in 
the material topics landscape.
In 2022/23, as a part of the Group's ongoing efforts towards increasing emphasis on ESG aspects, the Group embarked on re-formulating its ESG 
framework in collaboration with an international third-party consulting firm, setting revised Group-wide ESG ambitions and translating such ambitions 
to ESG-related targets. 

6 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
INTRODUCTION TO THE REPORT
As you flip through the pages of this Report, you will find a relevant, 
transparent and noteworthy value proposition entrenched within 
the John Keells Group that strives to achieve the highest form of 
stakeholder satisfaction through sustainable value creation.
Importance to stakeholders 
(Influence)
Importance to JKH 
(Impact)
Medium
Medium
Supply Chain 
Management
Privacy and Data 
Security
Diversity and Equal 
Opportunity
Human Rights
GHG Emissions
Health & Safety
Corporate Governance
Business Conduct and Ethics
Talent Attraction 
and Retention
Waste 
Management / 
Packaging
Risk 
Management
Transparency in 
Disclosures
Water and 
Wastewater 
Management
Product Safety 
and Quality
Stakeholder Relationship 
Management
Tax Strategy
Community 
Relations and 
Welfare
Biodiversity
High
Very High
High
Very High
E
S
G
Very High
1.	 Business Conduct and Ethics
2.	 Corporate Governance
3.	 Health & Safety
4.	 GHG Emissions
5.	 Human Rights
6.	 Diversity and Equal Opportunity
7.	 Waste Management/Packaging
8.	 Talent Attraction and Retention
9.	 Risk Management
High
10.	 Water and Waste Water 
Management
11.	 Privacy and security
12.	 Disclosures
13.	 Stakeholder Relationship 
Management
14.	 Product Safety and Quality
Medium
15.	 Supply Chain Management
16.	 Tax Strategy
17.	 Community Relations and 
Welfare
18.	 Biodiversity
A detailed explanation of the process and how the material topics were arrived at 
can be found in the Determining Materiality section of this report. 
CONTACT WITH STAKEHOLDERS
The preparation of the Report took place in cooperation with all relevant 
stakeholders in order to improve transparency and accountability. 
Feedback is gathered through questionnaires, a dedicated mailbox,  
one-on-one meetings and stakeholder engagement fora.  
Email: investor.relations@keells.com
Tel: +94 11 230 6170
DISCLAIMER FOR THE PUBLICATION OF FORECAST 
DATA 
The Report contains information about the plans and strategies 
of the Group for the medium and long-term and represents the 
management's view. The plans are forward-looking in nature and 
their feasibility depends on a number of economic, political and 
legal factors which are outside the influence of the Group and 
Company, including the situation of key markets, changes in tax, 
customs and environmental legislation and so forth. Given this, the 
actual performance of indicators in future years may differ from the 
forward-looking statements published in this Report. The reader is 
advised to seek expert professional advice in all such respects. 
APPROVAL BY THE BOARD
The Board acknowledges its responsibility of ensuring the integrity 
of this Integrated Report. In the Board's opinion, this Report 
addresses all the issues that are material to the Group's ability to 
create value and fairly presents the integrated performance of 
the John Keells Group. The Board is confident that the Report was 
prepared in accordance with the International <IR> Framework. 
This Report was approved by the Board on 21 May 2024.
As a part of this collaboration, the Group conducted in-depth studies 
and workshops within each industry group to identify areas of significant 
impact, risk and materiality, thereby arriving at material ESG topics through 
a formalised and more refined process. Similar to previous materiality 
assessments, benchmarking studies were conducted across the businesses 
to assess their ESG performance vis-à-vis industry leaders, regional peers 
and best-in-class practices of the respective industries in which the 
businesses operate. Similarly, stakeholder engagement sessions were also 
held with both internal and external stakeholders to gather insights. These 
efforts culminated in the determination of material ESG topics for each 
industry group and sector-specific ambitions, which thereafter dovetailed 
into Group-level priorities based on relevance and materiality. 
To enhance the materiality approach, the Group adopted the double 
materiality assessment which considers the impact of the material topics 
on the Group as well as the environment and its stakeholders. 
John Keells Group Materiality Matrix
Reporting Guides
Capital Guides
This Annual Report is available on our website: 
Financial and Manufactured 
Capital
Human Capital
Social and Relationship 
Capital
Natural Capital
Intellectual Capital
Reference to other pages 
within the Report
Reference to further 
reading online
Details of CSR  
projects available on  
www.johnkeellsfoundation.com/
https://www.keells.com/resource/reports/annual-reports/
John_Keells_Holdings_PLC_AR_2023_24_CSE.pdf
NAVIGATING THIS REPORT

7
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey • Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
ABOUT US
John Keells Holdings PLC (JKH) is the largest listed company on the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) with an operating history of over 150 years. Started 
in the early 1870s as a produce and exchange broking business by two Englishmen, Edwin and George John, the Group has been known to constantly 
re-align, re-position and re-invent itself in pursuing growth sectors of the time.
The Group's investment philosophy is based on a positive outlook, bold approach, commitment to delivery and flexibility to change. JKH is also 
committed to maintaining integrity, ethical dealings, sustainable development and greater social responsibility in a multi-stakeholder context.
INDUSTRY GROUPS 
Refer: Corporate Information section of this Report for more details. 
Transportation
Consumer Foods
Retail
Leisure
Property
Financial Services
Other, including 
Information 
Technology and 
Plantation Services
	y
Transportation
	y
Ports and Shipping
	y
Beverages
	y
Frozen Confectionery
	y
Convenience Foods
	y
Supermarkets
	y
Office Automation
	y
New Energy Vehicles
	y
Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts
	y
Destination Management
	y
Hotel Management
	y
Property Development
	y
Property Management
	y
Insurance
	y
Banking
	y
Stockbroking
	y
Information Technology
	y
Plantation Services
	y
Other (which also comprises of 
Centre Functions*)
* 	Centre Functions include Corporate Communications, Corporate Finance and Strategy, 
Data and Advanced Analytics, Group Business Process Review, Group Finance and 
Group Insurance, Group Human Resources, Group IT, Group Tax, Group Treasury, 
John Keells Foundation, Legal and Secretarial, New Business Development, Social 
Entrepreneurship, Sustainability, and Enterprise Risk Management, and Group Initiatives.
Operating history of 150+ years
A full member of the 
World Economic Forum since 2002
Participant of the Global Compact of the 
United Nations - Sponsored International 
Corporate Citizenship Initiative since 2002
LMD's Most Respected Entity 
for the 18th consecutive year
Ranked first in 
LMD Readers' Choice as Sri Lanka's 
Most Loved Corporate Brand for 2024
Ranked first in the Transparency in 
Corporate Reporting Assessment by 
Transparency International Sri Lanka 
(TISL) for the fourth consecutive year,  
with a 100% score for transparency in 
disclosure practices
Gold award for Best Investor Relations  
at the Capital Market Awards 2023 of 
CFA Society Sri Lanka

8 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
CHAIRPERSON'S MESSAGE
I am pleased to present the Integrated Annual Report and the 
Financial Statements for the financial year ended 31 March 2024. 
I trust our Report will provide you with an in-depth understanding of the Group's value creation process, the strategies in place 
to manage the diverse portfolio of businesses towards driving sustainable growth, the governance philosophy and underlying 
principles in which the Group conducts its affairs, internally and externally, and the way ahead for the Group. 
Dear Stakeholder,
The Group recorded a satisfactory financial performance during the 
year, in line with our expectations that it was a year of consolidation 
considering the priority of reaching stability and gradual recovery, 
thereon, post the economic crisis, coupled with the strong focus of the 
Group on operationalising our two large investments in the ensuing 
financial year. Although overall growth was muted, on a positive note, 
the momentum gathered pace towards the latter half of the year, with 
the Group recording a strong performance in the third and fourth 
quarters of 2023/24, which has continued into the new financial year. 
Overall, the year under review was rewarding and defining in that we were 
able to conclude on the much-awaited commercial arrangements for 
the Group's iconic and largest investment to date, the 'City of Dreams Sri 
Lanka', which is elaborated in detail in this Message and the Report. This 
landmark project, which has been 10 years in the making encountered 
numerous unprecedented challenges due to events beyond our control, 
will be transformational for your Group, and the country as a whole. 
The project is coming together as ambitiously conceptualised and 
visualised over a decade ago, with the potential to transform Colombo as 
a destination for leisure and entertainment. That vision is fast becoming 
a reality as we look forward to launching operations by the third quarter 
of 2024, with the full commencement of operations, including the 
casino and the mall, expected in mid-2025. We are of the view that a 
convergence of the timing of an economic revival and our own landmark 
projects, which have moved from conceptualisation to operationalisation, 
or from 'Dreams to Life', will be a catalyst for tremendous opportunities for 
the country and the Group. 
Sri Lanka witnessed the continuation of normal day-to-day activities, 
with the recovery being faster than anticipated, supported by 
the implementation of difficult policy reforms and new legislative 
enactments regarding fiscal responsibility. After a period of consecutive 
severe challenges in the country, it was refreshing and encouraging to 
operate in an environment with significantly lower volatility and a more 
certain macroeconomic outlook, which has resulted in the restoration of 
confidence in the prospects for the country.
In line with the target of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL), headline 
inflation significantly decelerated to low single-digit levels on the back 
of numerous policy actions, from the peak levels of 70% in the previous 
year. The improving trade balance in the country and substantial increases 
in tourism receipts and foreign currency remittances resulted in strong 
net foreign currency inflows into the country. Outflows were curtailed, 
to an extent, due to lower import demand as the economy gradually 
recovers, while the suspension of foreign currency debt servicing, until 
such time the external debt restructuring process is complete, resulted in 
a significant saving of outflows. This resulted in the Rupee appreciating by 
approximately 11% while the CBSL continued to build its foreign currency 
reserves position which was approximately USD 5 billion as at 30 April 
2024, a significant improvement from the levels witnessed two years ago. 
Following the strengthening of the Rupee and positive outlook for the 
economy, import restrictions on items were relaxed, with the exception 
of motor vehicles. The progress on the International Monetary Fund (IMF) 
48-month Extended Fund Facility (EFF) programme and the Domestic 
Debt Optimisation (DDO) plan has been commendable. It is encouraging 
that Sri Lanka's international financing partners continued to extend their 
support to help achieve this balance between critical reforms and ensuring 
a strong safety net for vulnerable segments of the community. With clarity 
on the DDO, the risk premia attached to the uncertainty surrounding 
domestic debt diminished. Together with the conclusion of the DDO and 
considering the relatively stable inflation indicators, the CBSL reduced the 
Standing Deposit Facility Rate (SDFR) and the Standing Lending Facility 
Rate (SLFR) by 700 basis points each, respectively, in 2023 to support the 
rebound of domestic economic activity. As a result, the SDFR and SLFR 
rates reached 8.50% and 9.50%, respectively, while prime lending rates 
declined below 11% compared to the previous peak rates of 25%-28%.
As part of the cost reflective pricing mechanism to reduce the cost of 
subsidies to the Government, electricity tariffs were significantly revised 
upwards, thrice, during the year under review. The tariffs were revised 
downwards in March 2024, although they remain significantly higher 
compared to 12 months ago. In this context, the new Sri Lanka Electricity 
Bill, which was gazetted recently, is welcome, as it paves the way for the 
liberalisation and competitive distribution of power. It is imperative to 
address the fundamental inefficiencies in the cost of energy generation 
in the medium to long-term to ensure competitiveness of Sri Lankan 
industries with our competing markets.
The State-Owned-Enterprise (SOE) reforms process has progressed 
steadily although we are yet to see any definitive outcomes on 
divestitures or partnerships. Whilst it must be acknowledged that a lot 
of groundwork has been carried out, both internationally and locally, the 
complexity of some of the transactions and the impending elections 
has possibly resulted in a slower pace to reach finality. However, while 
practical challenges may exist, given the criticality of the SOE reforms for 
Sri Lanka, we urge the authorities to expedite the process. 
“Overall, the year under review was rewarding and 
defining in that we were able to conclude on the 
much-awaited commercial arrangements for the 
Group's iconic and largest investment to date, the 
'City of Dreams Sri Lanka'. 
We are of the view that a convergence of the timing 
of an economic revival and our own landmark 
projects, which have moved from conceptualisation 
to operationalisation, or from 'Dreams to Life', will 
be a catalyst for tremendous opportunities for the 
country and the Group.”

Summarised below are the key operational and financial highlights during the year under review.
Recurring EBITDA*
(Rs.'000) 
2023/24
2022/23
Variance 
%
Transportation
 7,570,157 
 11,963,136 
 (4,392,980)
(37%)
Consumer Foods
 4,992,718 
 3,184,139 
 1,808,578 
57%
Retail
 8,762,069 
 8,778,841 
 (16,772)
0%
Leisure
 9,059,055 
 8,604,117 
 454,939 
5%
Property
 (822,302)
 (265,486)
 (556,816)
(210%)
Financial Services
 9,296,200 
 6,451,249 
 2,844,951 
44%
Other, incl. Information Technology and Plantation Services
 4,938,374 
 7,024,106 
 (2,085,732)
(30%)
Group
 43,796,270 
 45,740,102 
 (1,943,832)
(4%)
*EBITDA includes interest income and the share of results of equity accounted investees which is based on the share of profit after tax but excludes all impacts from foreign currency 
exchange gains and losses (other than for equity accounted investees), to demonstrate the underlying cash operational performance of businesses.
	y
The Group recorded a satisfactory financial performance during the 
year, in line with our expectations that it was a year of consolidation 
considering the priority of reaching stability and gradual recovery, 
thereon, post the economic crisis, coupled with the strong focus 
of the Group on operationalising the two large investments in the 
ensuing financial year. 
	y
The momentum gathered pace towards the latter half of the year, 
with the Group recording a strong performance in the third and 
fourth quarters of 2023/24, which has continued into the new 
financial year. 
	y
Group revenue (excluding equity accounted investees) recorded a 
marginal growth of 1% to Rs.280.77 billion, mainly on account of the 
decline in revenue in the Group's Bunkering business, Lanka Marine 
Services (LMS). LMS recorded a decline in revenue in the current 
year primarily due to the sharp reduction in global fuel oil prices as 
compared to the previous year.
	y
Group recurring EBITDA was recorded at Rs.43.80 billion in 2023/24, 
in comparison to the recurring Group EBITDA of Rs.45.74 billion in 
2022/23, mainly as a result of the lower EBITDA recorded at LMS and 
the lower interest income recorded at the Holding Company. 
	y
Excluding LMS and the Holding Company, Group revenue and recurring 
Group EBITDA recorded a growth of 12% and 3%, respectively.
	y
As announced, Melco Resorts & Entertainment (Melco) will be the 
operator of the gaming facility at the 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka'. Melco 
will also invest ~USD 125 million in the fit-out and equipping of the 
gaming space. As part of the collaboration between JKH and Melco, the 
integrated resort, which had previously been branded as 'Cinnamon 
Life Integrated Resort', will be rebranded as 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka'.
	y
The Group's Ports and Shipping business, South Asia Gateway 
Terminals (SAGT) recorded an increase in throughput of 7% in line 
with the overall Port of Colombo volumes, although profitability 
was impacted by a change in the throughput mix while ancillary 
revenues declined from the peak levels witnessed last year. 
	y
The construction work on the West Container Terminal (WCT-1) at the 
Port of Colombo is progressing well. The first batch of quay and yard 
cranes is expected to arrive in August 2024.
	y
The Consumer Foods industry group recorded a significant increase 
in EBITDA, attributable to both the Beverages and the Frozen 
Confectionery businesses driven by both volume growth and 
improved margins. 
	y
The Supermarket business recorded a strong performance in revenue 
during the year, with same store sales recording encouraging growth, 
driven by growth in customer footfall.
	y
Profitability of the Leisure industry group was driven by a strong 
recovery in the Sri Lankan Leisure businesses, on the back of a 
sustained recovery in tourist arrivals to the country.
	y
The 'TRI-ZEN' project, an 891-unit residential development, received 
the required clearances, including the Certificate of Conformity. 
Handing over of units has commenced from April 2024.
	y
The strong growth in profitability at Union Assurance PLC (UA) was 
driven by an increase in gross written premium (GWP), supported 
by an increase in regular new business premiums and renewal 
premiums while Nations Trust Bank (NTB) recorded growth in 
profitability aided by loan growth.
	y
In February 2024, HWIC Asia Fund (HWIC) exercised its option to 
convert 110,000,000 debentures, with a face value of Rs.14.30 billion. 
Accordingly, JKH issued and listed 110,000,000 new ordinary shares 
of the Company. The remaining outstanding debentures post this 
conversion amount to 98,125,000 debentures with a face value of 
Rs.12.76 billion. The remaining debentures are eligible for conversion 
till 12 August 2025. 
	y
OCTAVE, the Data and Advanced Analytics Centre of Excellence of the 
Group, transitioned into an independent advanced analytics practice 
as originally designed when the Group's analytics transformation 
programme was initiated in 2019. The ongoing assessment of the 
impact to business of these advanced analytics solutions, post roll-out 
and complete business-wide adoption has provided strong evidence 
that the anticipated benefits that were evident through initial pilot 
projects are being sustained at scale once fully implemented. 
	y
As a part of the Group's ongoing efforts towards increasing emphasis 
on Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) aspects, the Group 
undertook initiatives to further strengthen its ESG framework and 
identify focus areas for each industry Group that dovetail into Group 
level priorities based on relevance and materiality.
	y
The Group's carbon footprint per million rupees of revenue increased 
by 14%, while water withdrawn per million rupees of revenue 
increased by 9%, respectively. At a Group level, the efficiency 
indicators demonstrate a negative trend, primarily on account of the 
muted revenue growth of 1% whereas activity levels across the main 
contributing areas to the carbon footprint of Retail, Consumer Foods 
and Leisure have increased. 
9
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information

10 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
CHAIRPERSON'S MESSAGE
In November 2023, the Government presented the Budget for the fiscal 
year 2024, with a focus on continuing the stabilisation of the economy 
with revenue-based consolidation and rationalisation in Government 
spending. In this context, marking a significant achievement given the 
ambitious target setting, Sri Lanka's Government revenue for the first 
quarter of 2024 was higher than budget. Whilst there were short-term 
impacts to consumer spending and inflation due to the imposition of 
direct and indirect taxes, the momentum witnessed in our consumer-
focused businesses, particularly in the fourth quarter and in the month 
of April 2024, is encouraging with a gradual recovery in volumes and 
sales seen across the wider FMCG industry. While macroeconomic 
conditions have improved significantly, we are conscious of the impact 
some of the reforms have had on the more vulnerable segments of the 
community and it is important that the Government continues and 
expands the measures to address this. 
While enhancing tax revenue and sustaining collections is a priority, 
which we are fully supportive of, the authorities should also focus on 
economic revival and growth with consumer and business confidence 
gradually recovering from its lows. In this context, maintaining a 
consistent overall policy framework, including taxes and other measures, 
should be done with the long-term impacts of such initiatives in mind 
and be in consultation with the private sector and relevant stakeholders. 
There should also be a focus on rationalising public expenditure, 
particularly in areas that are considered non-essential. This will not 
only bridge the budget deficit but have a strong signalling effect and 
demonstrate consistency with the other reform measures undertaken. 
The implementation of governance reforms to support and widen 
revenue collection will also be key to restoring economic activity and 
investment, thereby enabling improved revenue collection, while 
the 'checks and balances' through the necessary fiscal responsibility 
legislation is welcome, and necessary, to ensure independent 
functioning of the state institutions. 
In May 2024, it was announced that Sri Lanka will hold presidential 
elections, in line with the provisions of the constitution, between 17 
September and 16 October 2024. While the uncertainty surrounding 
the outcome of the elections may result in some of the reforms slowing 
down, we do not anticipate a change in the economic recovery 
momentum, at this juncture, given the slew of policy measures and 
reforms that have been enacted. While the prospective candidates will 
have their own policy agenda, Sri Lanka has a very clear, albeit narrow, 
path to consolidation and recovery as prescribed and agreed under the 
framework of the IMF-EFF programme. As the space to deviate from 
the financial targets is extremely limited, this leaves no choice for an 
alternate approach. These policy actions and targets, together with the 
necessary legislation surrounding fiscal and monetary responsibility and 
independence, will also ensure that the fundamental reform agenda will 
have to be adhered to.
Sri Lanka's cumulative tourist arrivals for the calendar year 2023 
reached close to 1.5 million arrivals, in line with the Sri Lanka Tourism 
Development Authority's (SLTDA) target. The momentum of tourism 
is encouraging with arrivals for the first four months of 2024 crossing 
784,000, which is ~90% of the arrivals recorded in the same period of 
2018. Sri Lanka recorded its highest ever arrivals figure in the calendar 
year 2018. The SLTDA anticipates a further increase in tourist arrivals 
as more flights resume services and international airlines expand 
their frequencies. Tourism will be a key catalyst to drive the continued 
recovery of the economy, particularly in the context of the positive 
impact it will have on foreign exchange earnings and improving 
disposable incomes considering the cascading and multiplier effects of 
tourism. It is encouraging that Sri Lanka was ranked as the fourth most 
popular tourist destination in the world for 2024 by the Forbes magazine 
whilst the world-renowned travel guide, 'Travel Off Path', ranked Sri 
Lanka among the top five fastest growing tourism destinations for 2024. 
Given the strategic importance of tourism to Sri Lanka and the recovery 
momentum we are witnessing after consecutive years of severe disruption 
to the industry, we urge the authorities to expeditiously implement the 
destination marketing campaign which has been delayed for many years 
and fast-track the construction of the new airport terminal. The strong 
economic growth in India and the resultant increase in outbound travel 
from India, similar to what China witnessed over the last two decades, is a 
significant opportunity for Sri Lanka, particularly considering the proximity 
to key Indian cities. Given the nascent stage of the development of the 
tourism industry, Sri Lanka must adopt all measures to attract more arrivals 
– one such measure is to have negligible or no visa fees similar to other 
regional countries which have comparatively lower or no visa fees or a  
visa waiver for nationals of many countries. The economic benefits of 
higher arrivals are far greater than the one-off, relatively small benefit of 
higher visa fees. 
The year 2024 marks a significant culmination of events for the Group's 
iconic integrated resort, which has been under construction over 
the last decade. Being the largest and most ambitious private sector 
investment in the country at an investment of over USD 1 billion, we 
are pleased and excited to announce our partnership with Melco 
Resorts & Entertainment Limited (Melco), as disclosed to the Colombo 
Stock Exchange on 30 April 2024. Melco is one of the world's leading 
integrated resort operators with internationally renowned integrated 
resorts around the world. Melco will be the operator of the luxury-
standard gaming facility at the integrated resort. 
Having a partner of the calibre of Melco committing to an investment and 
long-term operations in Sri Lanka is a show of confidence for the country, 
where this is one of the largest foreign investments post the economic 
crisis in Sri Lanka. The positive impact on tourism and the economy will 
be significant, as seen with the impact other integrated resorts in the 
region have created – even in more advanced markets such as Singapore. 
Similarly, an operator of the reputation and calibre of Melco, committing 
to, not only manage the gaming operations, but, also lending their 'City of 
Dreams' and 'Nuwa' brands to the project, together with the commitment 
of an investment of USD 125 million, is a testament to the belief in the 
quality of the offering and the development, supported by a strong 
alignment of the shared vision of both JKH and Melco. 
“The strong economic growth in India and the 
resultant increase in outbound travel from 
India, similar to what China witnessed over the 
last two decades, is a significant opportunity 
for Sri Lanka, particularly considering the 
proximity to key Indian cities.”

11
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
As part of the collaboration between JKH and Melco, the integrated 
resort, which had previously been branded as 'Cinnamon Life Integrated 
Resort', will be rebranded as 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka'. 'City of Dreams' is 
the flagship integrated resort brand of Melco and will be the fourth such 
property in its network of integrated resorts across the world. The 687-
room 'Cinnamon Life' hotel at the 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka' integrated 
resort will commence operations in the third quarter of 2024, with 
full commencement of operations, including the casino and the mall, 
expected in mid-2025. The Group is confident that the convergence 
of all elements in the launch of 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka' will unlock 
its full potential as a transformative development in South Asia and be 
a catalyst in creating tourism demand, foreign exchange earnings for 
Sri Lanka and generating employment, similar to other cities that have 
opened iconic integrated resorts of this nature. I have elaborated further 
on the current status of the project and details within the 'City of Dreams 
Sri Lanka' section in this Message. 
In addition to the developments surrounding 'City of Dreams Sri 
Lanka', the Group continued its other investments steadfastly, where 
the construction work on the West Container Terminal at the Port 
of Colombo is progressing well with the entirety of the dredging 
works for both phases complete. The first batch of quay and yard 
cranes is expected to arrive in August 2024. The construction of the 
891-residential apartment complex of the Group, 'TRI-ZEN', is now 
complete and ready for handover and the Property industry group 
launched a suburban residential development project, 'VIMAN', where 
the preliminary interest and sales traction has been very encouraging. 
Further, the Group entered into a partnership with the Reliance Group 
of India to manufacture, market, distribute and sell beverages under the 
legendary 'Elephant House' brand which paves the way to expand our 
brand in the Indian market with a partner of the scale and reputation 
of Reliance. Similarly, the Group partnered with BYD Auto Industry 
Company Limited, the world's leading manufacturer of new energy 
vehicles (NEV), to provide cutting-edge and eco-friendly vehicles to the 
Sri Lankan market. 
We look to the future with confidence and a positive outlook as we see 
our landmark investments reaching fruition. While challenges remain, 
the country has, possibly for the first time in its post-independence 
history, implemented a fundamental framework of economic policies 
that has stabilised the economy and positioned it for stronger growth 
in the future. We are optimistic that Sri Lanka is on the correct recovery 
path. The resolve to continue to stay on this path of consolidation, and 
ensure we address the calls for better governance, including public 
sector reform, will be pivotal to achieving sustainable growth.
GROUP PERFORMANCE
For the financial year 2023/24, Group revenue (excluding equity 
accounted investees) recorded a marginal growth of 1% to Rs.280.77 
billion. The muted growth in revenue is mainly as a result of the 
decline in revenue of the Transportation industry group on account 
of the Bunkering business, Lanka Marine Services (LMS). LMS recorded 
a decline in revenue in the current year primarily due to the sharp 
reduction in global fuel oil prices as compared to the previous year. 
The Group recorded a recurring earnings before interest expense, tax, 
depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) of Rs.43.80 billion in the financial 
year 2023/24, in comparison to the recurring Group EBITDA of Rs.45.74 
billion in the previous year, mainly as a result of the lower EBITDA 
recorded at LMS, the lower interest income recorded at the Holding 
Company and the decline in EBITDA in the Information Technology and 
Plantation Services businesses. Interest income recorded a decline driven 
by lower domestic interest rates, the translation impact on the foreign 
currency denominated interest income due to the appreciation of the 
Rupee, as well as a decline in cash and cash equivalents at the Holding 
Company on account of the planned utilisation for equity infusions 
in investments. Excluding the Holding Company and LMS, Group 
revenue and recurring Group EBITDA recorded a growth of 12% and 3%, 
respectively. 
The recurring Group profit before tax (PBT) decreased by 30% to Rs.16.59 
billion from the Rs.23.77 billion recorded in the previous year. The 
previous year included net exchange gains of Rs.6.63 billion, primarily on 
account of the net US Dollar denominated cash holdings and liabilities 
at the Holding Company which benefited due to the steep depreciation 
of the Rupee, whilst the PBT for the year under review comprises of 
net exchange gains of Rs.3.37 billion, including the net exchange 
gain on the USD 219 million term loan facility at Waterfront Properties 
(Private) Limited on account of the transition of its functional currency 
from US Dollars to Rupees. PBT was also impacted on account of the 
interest charged on the convertible debentures issued to HWIC Asia 
Fund (HWIC), including a notional non-cash interest of approximately 
Rs.3.02 billion, whereas the previous year included notional interest 
of approximately Rs.1.83 billion on the debenture. Interest expense 
also increased on account of higher Rupee borrowing costs due to an 
increase in Rupee debt in line with the planned funding strategy of 
the Group. Excluding the impacts of the exchange gain and notional 
interest, the recurring PBT declined by 14% to Rs.16.24 billion as against 
Rs.18.97 billion recorded in the previous year. 
The recurring profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 
decreased by 49% to Rs.10.21 billion for the financial year ended  
31 March 2024.
The recurring EBITDA analysis in the industry group discussion below 
is post the elimination of one-off impacts in order to demonstrate the 
performance of the core operations of the businesses. The recurring 
adjustments are detailed in the ensuing section of this Message and the 
Financial and Manufactured Capital Review section of the Report. As the 
Annual Report contains discussions on the macroeconomic factors and its 
impact on our businesses, as well as a detailed discussion and analysis of 
each of the industry groups, I will focus on a high-level summation of the 
performance of each industry group during the financial year 2023/24. 
“Having a partner of the calibre of Melco 
committing to an investment and long-term 
operations in Sri Lanka is a show of confidence 
for the country, where this is one of the largest 
foreign investments post the economic crisis in 
Sri Lanka.”

12 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
CHAIRPERSON'S MESSAGE
TRANSPORTATION 
The Transportation industry group recurring EBITDA of Rs.7.57 billion in 
2023/24 is a decrease of 37% over the recurring EBITDA of the previous 
financial year [2022/23: Rs.11.96 billion]. The recurring EBITDA for 
2023/24 eliminates a one-off deferred tax credit amounting to Rs.1.20 
billion while 2022/23 eliminates a one-off deferred tax charge of Rs.1.34 
billion in the Group's Ports and Shipping business, SAGT, as the share  
of results of equity accounted investees are consolidated net of all 
related taxes.
The decline in profitability is mainly attributable to the Group's 
Bunkering business, LMS which reported an exceptional performance in 
the previous year. Given the predominant dollar denominated revenue 
streams of the businesses within the industry group, profitability was 
also adversely impacted by the appreciation of the Sri Lankan Rupee, by 
approximately 11%, during the year under review, whereas both SAGT 
and LMS benefited from gains on account of the steep depreciation of 
the Rupee in the previous year, both in terms of revenue and costs.
It should be noted that LMS recorded a substantial increase in 
profitability in its core ship bunkering operations in the previous year, 
driven by higher margins on account of the significant increase in global 
fuel oil prices and the subdued competitive environment in the local 
bunkering market. Further, volumes in the previous year included local 
fuel sales as licensed bunkering businesses were permitted to import 
and supply fuel oil to local industries, from April 2022 until June 2023, to 
ensure continuity of operations in light of the fuel shortages which were 
prevalent in the country at the time. 
Despite a growth in overall volumes over the previous year, the sharp 
reduction of global fuel oil prices from the peak levels in the last year 
resulted in a contraction of margins in the current year, which, coupled 
with the discontinuation of local sales, impacted the overall profitability 
of LMS. During the year under review, LMS continued to retain its market 
leadership position in the Sri Lankan bunker market. LMS recorded a 
significantly higher volume growth of over 50% in the fourth quarter of 
the year due to the Red Sea crisis which resulted in an increase in vessel 
traffic to the coastal waters of Sri Lanka.
SAGT recorded an increase in throughput of 7% in line with the overall 
Port of Colombo volumes, although profitability was impacted to an 
extent by a change in the throughput mix while ancillary revenues 
declined from the peak levels witnessed last year. 
“The construction work on the West Container 
Terminal (WCT-1) at the Port of Colombo is 
progressing well, with all work relating to the 
first phase of the project (800 metres of quay 
length) being awarded. The first batch of quay 
and yard cranes is expected to arrive in  
August 2024.”
TRANSPORTATION
Revenue incl. Associates
Recurring PBT
Recurring EBITDA
Recurring PAT
Rs.68.92 billion
Rs.6.40 billion
Rs.7.57 billion
Rs.6.27 billion
2022/23: Rs.94.28 billion
2022/23: Rs.10.90 billion
2022/23: Rs.11.96 billion
2022/23: Rs.10.42 billion
27%
41%
37%
40%
The construction work on the West Container Terminal (WCT-1) at the 
Port of Colombo is progressing well, with all work relating to the first 
phase of the project (800 metres of quay length) being awarded. The 
first batch of quay and yard cranes is expected to arrive in August 2024, 
following which the commissioning and automation is expected to 
be completed by the third quarter of 2024/25. The first phase of the 
terminal is slated to be operational in the fourth quarter of 2024/25. The 
WCT-1, which has a lease period of 35 years, is a deep-water terminal 
with a quay length of 1,400 meters, an alongside depth of 20 meters 
and an annual handling capacity of ~3.2 million TEUs. The quay length 
of 800 metres in Phase 1 facilitates the servicing of two large vessels 
concurrently, which will enable a higher throughput once Phase 1 is 
operational. The remainder of the terminal is expected to be completed 
in mid-2026.
CONSUMER FOODS 
The Consumer Foods industry group recurring EBITDA of Rs.4.99 billion in 
2023/24 is an increase of 57% over the recurring EBITDA of the previous 
financial year [2022/23: Rs.3.18 billion]. The significant increase in EBITDA 
is attributable to both the Beverages and the Frozen Confectionery 
businesses driven by both volume growth and improved margins. 
The Beverages and Frozen Confectionery businesses recorded a volume 
growth of 10% and 2%, respectively. It is encouraging to witness the 
recovery momentum in volumes with the fourth quarter recording 
growth of 42% and 24%, respectively. The performance of Beverages in 
the fourth quarter was despite the selling price adjustments on select 
SKUs on account of passing on the higher duty on sugar and the increase 
in the VAT rate from 15% to 18%, effective from January 2024. 
In line with expectations and actions undertaken by the businesses, 
both Beverages and Frozen Confectionery recorded an improvement in 
margins. Apart from price adjustments on select SKUs, margins improved 
on account of declining raw material prices, further aided by the 
appreciation of the Rupee and the higher operating leverage enabling 
absorption of fixed costs. Given the improvement in margins on account 
of input cost decreases, the business undertook price reductions in 
select SKUs, where possible, particularly in the impulse segment, to 
pass on the price benefit to consumers while also enabling a stronger 
recovery in volumes.
The PBT of the Beverages and Frozen Confectionery businesses recorded 
a significant improvement driven by the increase in EBITDA, further 
supported by the decline in finance expenses on account of easing 
interest rates and reductions in working capital requirements and overall 
debt levels.

13
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
In January 2024, Ceylon Cold Stores PLC (CCS), entered into a 
partnership with one of India's largest conglomerates, Reliance Group, to 
manufacture, market, distribute and sell beverages under the 'Elephant 
House' brand across India. The partnership marks a significant milestone 
in amplifying presence in India, where market entry is challenging. The 
collaboration with a reputed partner such as Reliance, together with 
synergies due to the expertise and experience of both organisations, is 
expected to provide a strong platform for success.
During the year, CCS acquired a polyethylene terephthalate (PET) 
bottling and can manufacturing plant which will support the expansion 
of its product portfolio in a new market segment via canned beverages. 
The plant also provides additional PET capacity which will support 
existing manufacturing operations. The canning plant commenced 
operations in March 2024.
The Convenience Foods business recorded a volume decline of 9% as a 
result of a moderation in consumer spend on processed meats, which 
is more discretionary and at a higher price point as compared to the 
Beverages and Frozen Confectionery businesses. The volumes were 
also affected on account of the reduction in general food prices and 
the relative prices of protein substitute products in the processed meat 
category. However, the business experienced an encouraging recovery 
in the second half of the year, driven by an increase in demand on 
account of improved consumer discretionary spend and price revisions, 
which improved product affordability.
RETAIL
The Retail industry group recorded a recurring EBITDA of Rs.8.76 billion 
in 2023/24 [2022/23: Rs.8.78 billion]. The Supermarket business recurring 
EBITDA of Rs.7.64 billion in 2023/24 is an increase of 2% against the 
previous financial year [2022/23: Rs.7.46 billion].
The Supermarket business recorded a strong performance in revenue 
during the year, with same store sales recording an encouraging growth 
of 12%, driven by growth in customer footfall. The sustained increase 
in footfall is encouraging as it demonstrates the continued potential 
for higher penetration of certain customer segments. The growth in 
revenue and higher contribution to EBITDA was, however, offset to a 
large extent on account of the significant cost escalations in operations 
compared to the previous year, primarily due to the material increase in 
electricity tariffs and, to a lesser extent, staff costs and other overheads. 
The imposition of the social security contribution levy (SSCL) had a 
further impact on the margins of the business during the first half of 
the year. SSCL is a revenue-based tax similar to the nation building tax 
in force a few years ago, where the retail industry is subject to SSCL at 
half the applicable rate. The business had to absorb the impact of the 
SSCL although measures were undertaken to mitigate its full impact. The 
business is expected to see an improvement in energy costs in 2024/25 
due to the downward revision of electricity tariffs in March 2024, 
although tariffs are still higher than at the beginning of the previous year. 
The increase in revenue, as witnessed during the year, is expected to 
drive an improvement in EBITDA together with the benefits accruing 
from various productivity and cost efficiency initiatives and supplier 
negotiations. The business will continue to place emphasis on cost 
optimisation and working capital management.
The relaxation of import restrictions during the year facilitated the improved 
availability of inventory and resulted in minimal supply chain related 
disruptions. The business continued to proactively ramp up its direct sourcing 
strategy with the aim of bridging gaps and, more importantly, providing 
its customers with such products at the best possible value. This has also 
helped drive footfall to our outlets, ensuring a higher proportion of the 
spend remained within the 'Keells' outlet network. Whilst the Supermarket 
business has increased penetration of its private label range, this focus 
was augmented with the intention of managing inventory better and also 
providing its customers with better choice and 'value for money' offerings.
As expected, the business recorded an improvement in PBT due to the 
decrease in debt as the business strategically rebalanced its portfolio 
of borrowings in light of the enhanced generation of cash and the 
reducing interest rate environment. 
Although the expansion of the 'Keells' outlet network was moderate 
during the first half of the year under review, given the easing of 
construction costs and the normalisation of the macroeconomic 
environment in the country, the business gradually ramped up outlet 
expansions on a case-by-case basis. Four new outlets were opened 
during the year, whilst one outlet was closed, bringing the total outlet 
count to 134 outlets as at 31 March 2024. In expanding its brand and 
outlet network, the business leverages on a standard and an extended 
format depending on the income distribution levels of the locality, the 
maturity of the market and competitive dynamics. In line with its brand 
expansion plans, four outlets were upgraded to the 'iconic' format 
during the year under review. This concept for select 'Keells' outlets, is 
aimed at enhancing the overall customer experience through best-in-
class retail technological solutions, a wider offering, particularly in the 
prepared food space and premium range, and improved ambience. 
Despite the additional investment associated with the conversion of 
the standard format outlets to the 'iconic' format, the payback on these 
investments, based on incremental performance, has been attractive. 
“The Beverages and Frozen Confectionery 
businesses recorded a volume growth of 10% 
and 2%, respectively. It is encouraging to 
witness the recovery momentum in volumes 
with the fourth quarter recording growth of 
42% and 24%, respectively.”
CONSUMER FOODS
Revenue incl. Associates
Recurring PBT
Recurring EBITDA
Recurring PAT
Rs.32.90 billion
Rs.2.96 billion
Rs.4.99 billion
Rs.2.16 billion
2022/23: Rs.31.27 billion
2022/23: Rs.1.05 billion
2022/23: Rs.3.18 billion
2022/23: Rs.2.14 billion
5%
181%
57%
0.7%
“The Supermarket business recorded a strong 
performance in revenue during the year, with 
same store sales recording an encouraging 
growth of 12%, driven by growth in customer 
footfall. The sustained increase in footfall is 
encouraging as it demonstrates the continued 
potential for higher penetration of certain 
customer segments.”

14 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
CHAIRPERSON'S MESSAGE
During the year under review, the Office Automation business recorded a 
significant improvement in PBT driven by an increase in mobile phone sales 
volumes and lower finance costs on working capital requirements with 
the easing of interest rates. Volume growth was driven by the relaxation of 
import restrictions on non-essential items during the second half of the year.
In November 2023, JKH partnered with BYD Auto Industry Company 
Limited, the world's leading manufacturer of new energy vehicles (NEV), 
to provide cutting-edge and eco-friendly vehicles to the Sri Lankan 
market. This new business will operate under the Retail industry group 
considering its alignment with the business and potential synergies. 
Optimising the supermarket outlet network and other locations of the 
Group's businesses across the country will enable the creation of the 
necessary eco-system required for the NEV business. 
LEISURE 
The Leisure industry group recurring EBITDA of Rs.9.06 billion in 2023/24 
is an increase of 5% against the recurring EBITDA of the previous 
financial year [2022/23: Rs.8.60 billion]. The EBITDA growth was driven by 
a strong recovery in the Sri Lankan Leisure businesses, on the back of a 
sustained recovery in tourist arrivals to the country. 
Excluding the 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka' integrated resort, which carries 
costs pertaining to the ramp up associated with the impending opening 
of the hotel, the Leisure industry group recurring EBITDA recorded an 
increase of 11% to Rs.10.12 billion.
Sri Lanka's cumulative tourist arrivals for the calendar year 2023 reached 
close to 1.5 million arrivals in line with the annual arrivals target of the 
SLTDA. Arrivals for each of the months from December 2023 – March 
2024 crossed 200,000 for the first time since 2019, recording the 
strongest winter season since the pandemic. With international tourism 
levels close to pre-pandemic levels as per the United Nations World 
Tourism Organisation, the Group is confident that the current recovery 
trend in arrivals in Sri Lanka will continue, particularly given Sri Lanka's 
tourism offering and the positive publicity and accolades received as 
a top tourism destination, together with the increase in frequencies of 
flights by several major airlines. 
The Sri Lankan Leisure businesses continued to record an improvement 
in performance, with an increase in occupancies and room rates 
across properties. The Colombo Hotels segment continued its strong 
performance in restaurant operations whilst recording an increase in the 
number of events and banquets. 
The Group's Maldivian Resorts recorded a decline in performance on 
account of the translation impact stemming from the appreciation 
of the Sri Lankan Rupee by approximately 11% in comparison to the 
previous year, although the underlying operating performance recorded 
a marginal increase on account of an increase in ARR and a reduction in 
power and energy costs against the previous year. Occupancies of the 
Maldivian Resorts segment were lower in comparison to the previous 
year given a change in the mix of overall arrivals to the Maldives, where 
arrivals from source markets with higher yields were lower while higher 
volumes into the guest houses segment also impacted business to 
an extent, although this was limited to the off-season period. At a PBT 
level, performance was also impacted by a notable increase in US Dollar 
borrowing rates.
City of Dreams Sri Lanka 
The construction work at the integrated resort progressed well during 
the year under review, with the hotel, gaming and retail components 
currently in the final stages of completion and fit-out. The project 
obtained a key approval in the third quarter of 2023/24 with the 
receipt of the Certificate of Conformity (COC) on building construction 
for the first 24 floors of the hotel complex, which will comprise of 
the 'Cinnamon Life' hotel, due to be launched in the third quarter of 
2024/25. The remainder of the integrated resort comprising of the 113-
key 'Nuwa' hotel, casino and the mall is slated for opening in mid-2025.
The 687-key 'Cinnamon Life' hotel and related facilities are in the final stages 
of fit-out and completion. In April 2024, the contractors of the project 
commenced the handover of the building to enable 'Cinnamon Life' to 
complete the final stages of furnishing, equipping and other interior works for 
the rooms and common areas.
'Cinnamon Life' carried out various activities including participating in 
international trade fairs, conducting interviews and providing briefings 
to travel publications, and direct marketing initiatives for selected 
market segments to increase awareness on the hotel and its offerings, 
given the impending commencement of operations of the hotel. The 
business took part in the Arabian Travel Mart (ATM) in early May 2024 
where the 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka' brand was showcased for the first 
time. Marking a further significant milestone, the 'Cinnamon Life' hotel 
commenced accepting bookings for stays and banqueting functions. 
“With international tourism levels close to pre-
pandemic levels as per the United Nations World 
Tourism Organisation, the Group is confident that 
the current recovery trend in arrivals in Sri Lanka 
will continue, particularly given Sri Lanka's tourism 
offering and the positive publicity and accolades 
received as a top tourism destination, together 
with the increase in frequencies of flights by 
several major airlines.”
RETAIL
Revenue incl. Associates
Recurring PBT
Recurring EBITDA
Recurring PAT
Rs.122.50 billion
Rs.2.93 billion
Rs.8.76 billion
Rs.2.05 billion
2022/23: Rs.106.85 billion
2022/23: Rs.504 million
2022/23: Rs.8.78 billion
2022/23: Rs.1.42 billion
15%
482%
0.2%
45%
LEISURE
Revenue incl. Associates
Recurring PBT
Recurring EBITDA
Recurring PAT
Rs.48.17 billion
Rs.3.31 billion
Rs.9.06 billion
Rs.3.03 billion
2022/23: Rs.39.86 billion
2022/23: Rs.(386) million
2022/23: Rs.8.60 billion
2022/23: Rs.(618) million
21%
958%
5%
589%

15
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
As detailed in the Report, the functional reporting currency of WPL was 
transitioned from USD to LKR, given the impending commencement of 
operations of the project in the current year. The appreciation of the LKR 
against the USD, subsequent to this transition, resulted in a non-cash 
exchange gain of Rs.3.00 billion on the USD 219 million term loan facility 
at WPL. 
“The 'TRI-ZEN' project, an 891-unit residential 
development comprising of three towers, 
received the required clearances, including the 
Certificate of Conformity (CoC). Handing over 
of units has commenced from April 2024.”
PROPERTY 
The Property industry group recurring EBITDA is a negative Rs.822 million 
in 2023/24 against the previous financial year [2022/23: negative Rs.265 
million]. The Property industry group EBITDA includes an asset write-off 
amounting to Rs.639 million relating to the closure of the 'K-Zone' mall 
in Ja-Ela for the development of the 'VIMAN' residential project, resulting 
in the existing assets becoming redundant. Given the demand for 
suburban living spaces, the Group is of the view that the project is the 
optimum route to monetisation of such land through development and 
sales. Excluding the asset write-off, the Property industry group EBITDA 
was a negative Rs.183 million. 
Whilst the year under review includes profit recognition from 'TRI-ZEN', 
the profitability of 'TRI-ZEN', which records the Group's share of profit 
after tax, as it is an equity accounted investee, was impacted by higher 
finance expenses on account of temporarily higher working capital 
requirements for the construction of the project. In addition, profitability 
was also impacted by approved cost escalations in the project which 
was recognised in the fourth quarter of the year.
Marking a milestone for John Keells Properties, the 'TRI-ZEN' project, an 
891-unit residential development comprising of three towers, received 
the required clearances, including the Certificate of Conformity (CoC). 
Handing over of units has commenced from April 2024. 'TRI-ZEN' 
witnessed an encouraging momentum in sales during the current 
financial year, where the cumulative sales and purchase agreements 
(SPAs) signed for the 'TRI-ZEN' residential development project increased 
by 45 SPAs to 700 SPAs. Further traction in sales is expected given the 
completion of the project, the market adjusting to the new price levels 
in the industry, given the relatively higher replacement costs, and the 
easing interest rates.
The sales momentum for the residential apartments at the 'City of Dreams 
Sri Lanka' integrated resort has been slow in line with the trends seen in 
the luxury segment in Colombo. The subdued demand for residential units 
was further impacted by the introduction of value added tax (VAT) and the 
social security contribution levy (SSCL) in the previous year, which increased 
the price of apartments by ~17.5%, although it had a greater impact on the 
luxury segment considering its higher price point. The Group is confident 
that the sales momentum will gradually pick-up given the completion of 
the integrated resort and conclusion of many vital elements, as discussed in 
this Message, relating to the gaming space. Further, the cost of constructing 
similar apartments today would be significantly higher, where existing units 
will be an attractive and valuable proposition with almost no new inventory 
in the luxury segment in the pipeline.
During the year under review, the business commenced the process 
of onboarding new employees with the requisite skills to operate 
'Cinnamon Life' in line with international hospitality standards. The 
implementation of training and skill development platforms continued 
to be a key priority during the year, given the dynamic nature associated 
with a project of this scale and offering. 
As mentioned previously in this Message, I am pleased that Melco will 
be the operator of the gaming facility at the 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka' 
given their access to the technical, marketing, branding and loyalty 
programmes, expertise and governance structures, which will be a 
boost not only for the integrated resort of the John Keells Group but a 
strong show of confidence in the tourism potential of the country. I also 
wish to confirm that a wholly-owned locally incorporated subsidiary of 
Melco has been awarded a license from the Government of Sri Lanka 
for a period of 20 years, under the stipulated criteria, to operate a casino 
at the integrated resort. Waterfront Properties (Private) Limited (WPL), 
the project company of the 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka', and Melco, have 
finalised all key aspects of the commercial agreements, including 
the rental framework commensurate with the terms of the license. 
Melco has carried out a significant amount of advanced design work, 
engineering and other construction and planning work, and based 
on the substantial groundwork carried out and completion of the 
main regulatory requirement, the fit-out of the space is expected to 
commence shortly with operations currently expected to commence 
in mid-2025. Melco will also invest ~USD 125 million in the fit-out and 
equipping of the gaming space. 
Given the announcement on the gaming operator and re-branding of 
the integrated resort, discussions with potential tenants of the retail 
mall will commence on a more definitive basis, to ensure the presence 
of unique attractions and offerings in the mall, while optimising the 
commercial aspects from a WPL perspective. Various alternatives 
including experiential offerings focused on food and beverages, lifestyle 
and entertainment, which would complement the hotel and gaming 
operations, are being considered for the retail space. 
The commencement of operations will lay the platform for 
transformative growth as all elements of the integrated resort 
converge and ramp up over the years ahead. Based on the opening 
dates of the respective components of the integrated resort, the 
immediate ensuing financial year will see the non-cash impacts of the 
depreciation being accounted for while the finance expense in relation 
to the USD 219 million loan will not be capitalised in the project cost 
from commencement of operations, in accordance with accounting 
standards. These impacts, however, will not have a bearing on the 
EBITDA of the project or Group.
“I am pleased that Melco will be the operator 
of the gaming facility at the 'City of Dreams 
Sri Lanka' given their access to the technical, 
marketing, branding and loyalty programmes, 
expertise and governance structures, which 
will be a boost not only for the integrated 
resort of the John Keells Group but a strong 
show of confidence in the tourism potential of 
the country.”

16 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
CHAIRPERSON'S MESSAGE
The strong growth in profitability at UA was driven by an increase in 
gross written premium (GWP), supported by an increase in regular new 
business premiums and renewal premiums. Net investment income 
recorded an increase facilitated by both the asset allocation strategy and 
higher yields on its fixed income portfolio, together with the increase in 
the size of the life fund. UA is a very strong player in the bancassurance 
industry in Sri Lanka, with higher banking penetration facilitated by 
strategic bancassurance partnerships with leading banks. UA recorded 
an annual life insurance surplus of Rs.2.80 billion in 2023/24, an increase 
against the surplus of Rs.2.30 billion recorded in the previous year, mainly 
arising from an increase in GWP and increased net investment income. 
OTHER, INCLUDING INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND 
PLANTATION SERVICES
The Information Technology sector recurring EBITDA of Rs.415 million in 
2023/24 is a decrease of 45% over the recurring EBITDA of the previous 
financial year [2022/23: Rs.758 million]. Profitability was impacted as a result 
of the appreciation of the Rupee during the year although the underlying 
business performance also recorded a decline, primarily as a result of 
escalating staff costs which were not fully recovered due to a lag in increasing 
revenue and margins.
The Plantation Services sector recurring EBITDA of Rs.350 million in 
2023/24 is a decrease of 63% over the recurring EBITDA of the previous 
financial year [2022/23: Rs.944 million]. The decline in profitability is 
primarily on account of the decrease in tea prices relative to the high price 
levels witnessed in the previous year. 
Other, comprising of the Holding Company and other investments, 
the Information Technology and Plantation Services sectors, together, 
recorded a recurring EBITDA of Rs.4.94 billion in 2023/24, which is a 
decrease of 30% over the recurring EBITDA of the previous financial 
year [2022/23: Rs.7.02 billion]. The decline in EBITDA is mainly on 
account of the decrease in interest income, which was driven by lower 
domestic interest rates, the translation impact on the foreign currency 
denominated interest income due to the appreciation of the Rupee, as 
well as a decline in cash and cash equivalents at the Holding Company 
on account of the planned utilisation for equity infusions in investments. 
PBT of the Holding Company was further impacted on account of the 
notional non-cash interest of Rs.3.02 billion [2022/23: Rs.1.83 billion] 
charged in line with market rates on the convertible debentures. 
2022/23 includes the notional non-cash charge from August 2022 
onwards whilst 2023/24 includes the full year impact. Further, the Group 
recorded an increase in Rupee borrowing costs due to higher Rupee 
debt in line with the planned funding strategy of the Group at this 
juncture.
As detailed in the JKH Annual Report 2022/23, JKH issued 208,125,000 
LKR denominated debentures, with a face value of Rs.27.06 billion, to 
HWIC Asia Fund (HWIC), a subsidiary of Fairfax Financial Holdings Limited, 
in August 2022. The debentures were issued at Rs.130 per debenture 
and with the option for conversion to shares at a ratio of 1:1, based on 
the approval granted by the shareholders at the time. In February 2024, 
HWIC exercised its option to convert 110,000,000 debentures, with a face 
value of Rs.14.30 billion. Accordingly, JKH issued and listed 110,000,000 
new ordinary shares of the Company. The remaining outstanding 
debentures post this conversion amount to 98,125,000 debentures with 
a face value of Rs.12.76 billion. The remaining debentures are eligible for 
conversion till 12 August 2025. 
“UA is a very strong player in the bancassurance 
industry in Sri Lanka, with higher banking 
penetration facilitated by strategic bancassurance 
partnerships with leading banks.”
PROPERTY
Revenue incl. Associates
Recurring PBT
Recurring EBITDA
Recurring PAT
Rs.5.23 billion
Rs.(857) million
Rs.(822) million
Rs.(569) million
2022/23: Rs.4.58 billion
2022/23: Rs.(2.19) billion
2022/23: Rs.(265) million
2022/23: Rs.(2.26) billion
14%
61%
210%
75%
In September 2023, John Keells Properties launched its latest residential 
project, 'VIMAN', located in the heart of Ja-Ela, a suburban area in close 
proximity to Colombo. Spread across six acres, offering a harmonious 
blend of modern comforts with 418 apartments, 'VIMAN' is designed to 
provide a secure, family-friendly environment with convenient access to 
the city of Colombo, while retaining the charm of a small-town setting. 
'VIMAN' offers the distinct advantage of proximity to the Colombo Port 
Access Elevated Highway, facilitating convenient connectivity between 
Ja-Ela and Colombo. The preliminary sales interest for the project has been 
very encouraging, with the first phase of the project consisting of a total of 
114 units, nearly sold out within six months since the launch of the project 
in September 2023. Given the traction for the project, the second phase, 
comprising of 76 units, was launched in March 2024. The construction of 
the first phase of the project is expected to commence mid-2024.
FINANCIAL SERVICES 
The Financial Services industry group recurring EBITDA of Rs.9.30 billion 
in 2023/24 is an increase of 44% over the recurring EBITDA of the 
previous financial year [2022/23: Rs.6.45 billion]. The strong growth in 
profitability was driven by both Nations Trust Bank PLC (NTB) and Union 
Assurance PLC (UA).
NTB recorded growth in profitability aided by loan growth and increased 
returns on its investments in Government securities due to the higher 
interest rates that prevailed during the first half of the year. The Bank's loan 
portfolio grew by 12%, with a selective and strategic focus on certain clients 
and customer segments, compared with a 5% contraction in industry loan 
growth. Profitability also benefited from the absence of impairment charges 
on Sri Lankan Government foreign securities given the higher provisioning 
adopted by NTB, relative to its peers, in the previous year.
FINANCIAL SERVICES
Revenue incl. Associates
Recurring PBT
Recurring EBITDA
Recurring PAT
Rs.33.34 billion
Rs.9.29 billion
Rs.9.30 billion
Rs.7.79 billion
2022/23: Rs.27.77 billion
2022/23: Rs.6.40 billion
2022/23: Rs.6.45 billion
2022/23: Rs.5.32 billion
20%
45%
44%
47%

17
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
"The ongoing assessment of the impact 
to business of these advanced analytics 
solutions, post roll-out and complete business 
wide adoption has provided strong evidence 
that the anticipated benefits that were 
evident through initial pilot projects are being 
sustained at scale once fully implemented."
ADVANCED ANALYTICS 
OCTAVE, the Data and Advanced Analytics Centre of Excellence of the 
Group, transitioned into an independent advanced analytics practice 
as originally designed when the Group's analytics transformation 
programme was initiated in 2019. The relative stability in the macro 
environment during 2023/24, in comparison to prior years, enabled 
the successful deployment of a higher number of use cases, at scale, 
across the Supermarket and Consumer Foods businesses as well as 
the piloting of several new use cases to optimise the synergies among 
the businesses in the Group. The ongoing assessment of the impact 
to business of these advanced analytics solutions, post roll-out and 
complete business wide adoption has provided strong evidence that the 
anticipated benefits that were evident through initial pilot projects are 
being sustained at scale once fully implemented. 
A revised detailed roadmap of advanced analytics use cases was 
developed for Leisure and Financial Services, while preliminary 
engagement with the Transportation industry group was also initiated. A 
programme aimed at developing a holistic understanding of customers 
within the Group and how they interact with the different consumer 
brands across the Group portfolio, was further institutionalised with all the 
necessary data governance and privacy considerations being prioritised.
Use cases rolled-out in the Supermarket business continued to make 
positive contributions across core aspects of the business value 
chain. The use cases include augmenting the efficacy of pricing and 
promotions, marketing, store operations, and supply chain interventions, 
which supported to drive healthy and sustainable margins while 
retaining sound 'value for money' for customers. 
Use cases developed and piloted for the Beverages business have 
been successfully deployed in optimising promotional spend across 
modern trade and general trade segments as well as in augmenting 
production planning. The use cases aimed at augmenting the efficiency 
of the distribution network of the Beverages and Frozen Confectionery 
businesses are in advanced stages of deployment. 
EMPLOYEES
The value creation process of the Group has been built around our loyal 
and committed employees, and I wish to acknowledge, with gratitude, the 
contribution and commitment of our employees during the year under review. 
Over the years, we have attracted the best talent towards building a 
strong team that reflects the diversity of the customers we serve and the 
communities we operate in. We continue to engage and encourage our 
employees to perform to the best of their abilities through a performance-
oriented culture founded on ethical and transparent behaviour, which, in 
turn, promotes sustainable and profitable growth. Our people have been 
the foundation of the success of the John Keells Group, and, I believe, will 
continue to be a key differentiator going forward as well. 
The challenging macroeconomic conditions, notably an environment 
of high inflation experienced over the previous year, softened during 
the period under review, extending relief to the people across the 
country. This eased the pressure on talent pools exploring alternate 
careers overseas, which was a significant trend last year. However, the 
revisions in the personal income tax structures introduced last year 
together with the material increases in indirect taxes continued to place 
pressure on disposable incomes. The Temporary Crisis Allowance, which 
was introduced as a measure to mitigate increases in costs and other 
macroeconomic pressures during the previous year, was maintained during 
the year under review, and is set to continue for the ensuing year as well.
During the year, the Group embarked on a project to transform the Group 
Competency Framework which has been in use for over a decade. The 
outcome was a refreshed and more relevant set of new competencies 
termed 'Success Drivers' which will be implemented for use during the 
ensuing year. The 'Success Drivers' evolved through the establishment 
of a series of workshops and discussions, and has been developed to be 
current, relevant and flexible in the context of the diversity of the Group's 
talent pool and range of demographics it operates in.
The Corporate Governance Commentary and the Human Capital Review 
sections of this Report explain in further detail the best practices, policies 
and procedures that are in place to ensure that John Keells is 'More Than 
Just a Work Place'.
ONE JKH – Our Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Initiative 
Launched in 2020 by consolidating our Group's past and ongoing 
efforts in diversity, equity, and inclusion (DE&I), ONE JKH has been 
committed to increasing female participation in our workforce towards 
achieving gender parity, enhancing career opportunities for Persons 
with Disabilities (PWD) and ensuring inclusivity towards the LGBTIQ+ 
community. 
We were recognised for our long-term sustainable initiatives in DE&I with 
the award for 'Organisation Promoting Equity/ Equality and Diversity of 
the Year' at the 'Top50 Professional & Career Women Global Awards – 
Thirteenth Edition' in June 2023. This accolade was presented by Women 
in Management (WIM) in collaboration with the International Finance 
Corporation (IFC) and the Australian Government. Our Group successfully 
completed its commitments under the 'Together We Can+' programme 
by the IFC Sri Lanka where we focused on commitments on conducting 
a PWD needs analysis, the development of a PWD policy and enhancing 
both physical and digital accessibility for customers and employees 
with disabilities. This year as well, we were a sponsor of Colombo PRIDE, 
continuing to be a corporate ally for the LGBTIQ+ community. 
OTHER, INCLUDING INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY  
AND PLANTATION SERVICE
Revenue incl. Associates
Recurring PBT
Recurring EBITDA
Recurring PAT
Rs.6.06 billion
Rs.(7.45) billion
Rs.4.94 billion
Rs.(9.61) billion
2022/23: Rs.6.87 billion
2022/23: Rs.7.48 billion
2022/23: Rs.7.02 billion
2022/23: Rs.4.32 billion
12%
199%
30%
322%

18 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
CHAIRPERSON'S MESSAGE
In August 2023, the Group was invited by The Family Health Bureau 
(FHB) and the UN World Food Programme (WFP) to discuss the success 
and positive impacts of our Equal Parental Leave Policy and associated 
services. This policy underscores the critical role of fathers in early 
childhood development, combats hiring biases against women, and 
aids women's re-entry into the workforce, extending its benefits beyond 
our Group. In September 2023, we underscored our commitment to 
promoting public-private partnerships for the employment of PWD by 
participating in a job coaching training workshop. This initiative was 
a collaborative effort between the Japan International Cooperation 
Agency (JICA) and the Department of Social Services.
As of 31 March 2024, the Group remains at 33% female participation, 
and we continue to work towards the internal five-year goal of achieving 
40% women in the workforce by the end of 2025/26. While the Group 
has made its best efforts and done a lot of groundwork to break role 
stereotypes and develop a pipeline of female leaders, the disruptive 
environment in the country, together with some of the other challenges, 
may result in the Group falling short of the target established in 2020/21. 
While we have made progress in moving from the 30% participation, 
we were at three years ago, we will continue to work relentlessly on our 
various initiatives and strive to reach the target of 40%, although beyond 
our original timelines. 
GOVERNANCE
I am pleased to state that there were no reported violations of the 
Group Code of Conduct and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics of 
the Code of Best Practice of Corporate Governance 2017, issued by the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka. I also wish to affirm our 
commitment to upholding Group policies, where emphasis is placed on 
ethical and legal dealings, zero tolerance for corruption, bribery and any 
form of harassment or discrimination in our workplace and in any work-
related situations.
In affirmation of this commitment, JKH was ranked first in the 
Transparency in Corporate Reporting (TRAC) Assessment by 
Transparency International Sri Lanka (TISL) for the fourth consecutive 
year, with a 100% score for transparency in disclosure practices. This 
ranking is based on an assessment of corporate disclosure practices 
among the top 125 companies listed on the Colombo Stock Exchange. 
During the year under review, several initiatives were undertaken to 
further strengthen the Group's governance framework and controls. 
As a part of the Group's ongoing efforts towards increasing emphasis 
on ESG aspects, the Group undertook initiatives to further strengthen 
its ESG framework and identify focus areas for each industry group 
that dovetail into Group-level priorities based on relevance and 
materiality. In collaboration with an international consulting firm, the 
Group conducted an in-depth study across its businesses to identify 
areas of significant impact, risk and materiality. As a part of this process, 
businesses were benchmarked against regional peers and best-in-class 
practices of the respective industries the businesses operate in.
The Group strengthened its internal policy universe, keeping in line with 
best practice and the revised CSE Listing Rules, including reviewing the 
policies from a holistic perspective and ensuring improved alignment 
in terms of its interdependencies with other related policies which have 
been developed over time.
The Data Governance Steering Committee was established to facilitate 
the review and enhancement of existing data governance practices of the 
Group, in compliance with applicable laws (including the Personal Data 
Protection Act No 9 of 2022) and best practice. The Committee focused 
on revisiting internal data governance policies and engaging with the 
respective industry groups to review, and, where relevant, facilitate the 
enhancement of its personal data protection processes towards ensuring 
a robust and more transparent data protection framework. 
The Group engaged with a leading international consultancy firm to 
conduct a comprehensive assessment of the Group's cybersecurity 
resilience, by aligning with industry best practice and recommended 
technological principles. This initiative was carried out to strengthen 
the efficiency, security and reliability of the Group's cloud eco-system 
to proactively manage risk. As a part of the ongoing commitment 
towards improving cyber security and digitisation to achieve optimum 
operational excellence, an 'Endpoint Detection and Response' (EDR) 
solution was implemented across the Group. A SMART Office mobile 
application was also rolled-out across the Group to empower employees 
with the necessary tools to improve mobility, streamline and automate 
processes, and increase productivity.
Further details on governance compliance and initiatives can be found 
in the Corporate Governance Commentary of this Report.
INTEGRATED REPORTING
This Report has been prepared in conformance with the Integrated 
Reporting Framework of the International Integrated Reporting 
Council. The Board of Directors and the Group Executive Committee 
are responsible for ensuring the accuracy and integrity of this Annual 
Report. We confirm, to the best of our knowledge, the credibility, reliability 
and integrity of the information presented, and, in this regard, external 
assurance has also been sought from independent auditors, as applicable. 
SUSTAINABILITY
This Report discloses the Group's sustainability performance in 
accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. It details 
the Group's integrated approach to sustainable business practices, 
the management framework and the Group's overall sustainability 
performance over the reporting year. 
The Group's strategy continues to embed sustainability considerations 
into all business operations, emphasising energy and water 
conservation, carbon emissions reduction, responsible waste disposal, 
employee training and development, maintaining a safe working 
environment, and ensuring high product stewardship standards. 
Over time, this commitment has extended to the value chain through 
ongoing engagements and awareness creation with key suppliers, 
promoting the sharing of best practices, adherence to the supplier code 
of conduct, and conducting on-site assessments.
Our unwavering commitments to Environmental, Social, and Governance 
(ESG) principles are underscored by our recognition for good governance 
and ethical business conduct, reaffirming our status as Sri Lanka's Most 
Respected and Most Transparent entity. Our initiatives, such as the 
Cinnamon Rainforest Restoration project, the Good Water Initiative, 
various projects to reduce plastic waste, such as the Gunadamin project 
by our Consumer Foods business, and a move towards zero single-use 

19
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
plastics by 'Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts' exemplify our commitment to 
creating positive environmental impacts. Further, the installation of solar 
panels in 107 out of 134 'Keells' supermarket outlets, among other energy 
related initiatives, further underscores our commitment to reducing 
the carbon footprint of the Group. Our recent partnership with BYD 
Auto Industry Company Limited, China, facilitates providing cutting-
edge and eco-friendly vehicles to the Sri Lankan market. The prospect 
of contributing towards a more environmentally friendly and energy 
efficient alternative, which will support the country, is in alignment with 
the Group's sustainability agenda.
In further enhancing the Group's ESG strategy framework, ambitious 
short and long-term targets have been established at a Group and 
industry group level. These targets were identified after a process of 
extensive research, interviews, and workshops with external stakeholders 
and the Group's leadership, where high-level material themes under ESG 
pillars were identified. These areas will be championed by appointed 
members of the Group Executive Committee and cascaded to sector-
level targets through steering committees. Long-term Group ambitions 
include reaching plastic-positive goals and achieving Net Zero under 
the environmental pillar while a key initiative in the social pillar 
centres around enhancing the sustainability of our supply chains. The 
monitoring and governance structures to implement these initiatives 
will include all internal stakeholders from operations, new business and 
product development, complementing ongoing structures.
Given the higher operational activity compared to the previous year, in 
absolute terms, the Group recorded increases in emissions and resource 
usage. The Group reported a 16% increase in its carbon footprint to 
117,591 MT, a 10% increase in water withdrawal to 2,221,494 cubic 
meters and a 16% increase in waste generation to 9,581 MT. The Group's 
carbon footprint per million rupees of revenue increased by 14%, 
while water withdrawn per million rupees of revenue increased by 9%, 
respectively. At a Group level, the efficiency indicators demonstrate a 
negative trend, primarily on account of the muted revenue growth of 
1% whereas activity levels across the main contributing areas to the 
carbon footprint of Retail, Consumer Foods and Leisure have increased. 
The reason for muted growth in revenue in the Group is mainly on 
account of the significant drop in the revenue of LMS on account of 
the sharp reduction in global fuel oil prices. Excluding the revenue 
reduction impact of LMS from both the current and comparative year, 
the efficiency of carbon footprint is largely in line with the previous year. 
At a Group level, the efficiency ratio is also impacted by a change in the 
proportionate contribution from each of the businesses. In the current 
year, Leisure, which has a relatively higher carbon footprint than our 
other businesses, recorded a higher contribution to revenue. Overall, 
many of the Group's initiatives towards carbon footprint reduction have 
yielded positive results although there are areas for improvement.
254 incidences of occupational injuries were recorded during the year. 
Employees were provided with an average of 92 hours of training per 
person.
The Group's businesses continue to work towards the established 
sustainability goals to be achieved by 2024/25, which include renewable 
energy generation, reduction of energy, steam, carbon footprint and 
waste, and reduction in use of non-recyclable plastics. The performance 
against these goals is disclosed in the Natural Capital Review section of 
this Report.
PLASTICCYCLE
The Group's social entrepreneurship project, 'Plasticcycle', continues its 
stewardship of tackling the critical issue of plastic pollution through its 
key focus areas of encouraging the reduction in the use of single-use 
plastics, supporting responsible plastic disposal and promoting recycling 
initiatives. During the current year, the collection bin network expanded 
with over 43,900 Kg of recyclable plastic waste collected. 
The partnership between 'Plasticcycle' and the youth-led marine 
conservation organisation, The Pearl Protectors, on the 'Cleaner Seabeds 
for Sri Lanka Expedition', initiative continued with positive traction and 
results. Our funding in 2023/24 supported 9 reef clean-ups through 41 
underwater dives in the Western and Eastern provinces, by which 1,319 
kgs of plastic waste – such as discarded nylon fishing nets were collected 
and disposed in a responsible manner. 
In August 2023, 'Plasticcycle', launched 'Start-Up-Cycle', a challenge 
platform in collaboration with John Keells X – the Group's startup 
accelerator, and John Keells Research – the Group's R&D and Innovation 
arm. This aimed to provide Sri Lankan innovators and entrepreneurs the 
opportunity to pitch their solutions relating to challenges in reducing 
plastic usage and waste, in an effort to seek innovative, implementable 
long-term solutions. Three applicants were selected and will receive seed 
funding and support from our businesses to incubate and develop their 
ideas towards developing commercially viable prototypes. 
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) remains an integral part of the 
Group's ethos. Under the CSR vision of 'Empowering the Nation for 
Tomorrow', John Keells Foundation (JKF), our dedicated CSR entity, 
drives initiatives focused on partnering our communities to become 
productive, self-reliant and resilient and to empower a cohesive, healthy 
and strong Sri Lanka.
Our CSR initiatives are aligned to Sri Lanka's national priorities and the 
Sustainable Development Goals as well as principles of the United 
Nations Global Compact, of which JKH is a participant. Staff volunteerism 
in CSR at both JKF and business level has been key to building authentic 
community engagement and tangible impact while enhancing team 
spirit and personal fulfilment.
While the Capital Review sections in this Report set out details of our 
initiatives, following are a few highlights during the reporting period: 
Education, essential skills and career readiness
	y
JKF continued to upskill school children and teachers, youth and 
undergraduates through programmes impacting 2,202 individuals, 
such as English Language Scholarships, Higher Education 
Scholarships, Soft Skills workshops, a career guidance programme 
and a customised teacher training programme in Habarana. 
School nutrition 
	y
The 'Pasal Diriya' school meal programme, initiated during the 
economic crisis in collaboration with the Ministry of Education, 
successfully completed its final phase recording the nutrition of 3,918 
children through 538,888 school meals while also enhancing their 
attendance and academic performance levels. JKF will transition out of 
this programme at the end of the reporting year, with the focus shifting 
towards strengthening sustainable mechanisms in selected schools 
by, increasing nutritional awareness among students, parents, and 
teachers, establishing nutrition clubs, and promoting school gardens.

20 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
CHAIRPERSON'S MESSAGE
Combating gender-based violence, child abuse and 
substance abuse 
	y
Aimed at fostering a healthy and productive community, JKF, through 
Project WAVE, conducted trainings for 50 police officers, awareness 
programmes and initiatives for 380,154 members of our communities 
as well as awareness and training for 1,987 Group staff. Awareness 
on substance abuse prevention, in partnership with the National 
Dangerous Drugs Control Board and Humedica Lanka, benefited 
17,485 individuals.
	y
JKF partnered with the Children & Women's Bureau of Sri Lanka 
Police in the establishment of a crime investigation unit through the 
sponsorship of a vital software tool for swift analysis of complaints 
related to abuse and violence against children and women. This 
tool facilitates access to call records and enables quick responses to 
ensure the safety of victims. 
Fostering sustainable livelihoods and self-reliance through 
John Keells 'Praja Shakthi'
	y
Sustainable livelihood programmes with a focus on women were 
expanded with the introduction of a beekeeping project and 
experiential tourism initiative launched in Habarana. JKF also 
expanded the Government's mushroom cultivation project in Ja-Ela 
together with 'Cinnamon' Hotel Complex, Habarana and 'Keells Food 
Products'. All initiatives benefited a total of 236 persons. 
Enhancing biodiversity
	y
Successful completion of the inaugural 3-year Cinnamon Rainforest 
Restoration Project, a public-private collaboration involving the 
Forest Department of Sri Lanka, Ruk Rakaganno, JKF, 'Cinnamon 
Hotels & Resorts,' and Deutsche Bank, Colombo. The planting of 
19,577 trees and removal of invasive plants has well exceeded project 
targets while various eco-systems such as ponds and bat caves have 
been established to enhance biodiversity. This project engaged 982 
internal and external volunteers for various tasks including research 
and provides livelihoods to 15 local families. 'Cinnamon Hotels and 
Resorts' will continue the second phase of this project.
Supporting creative industries towards fostering social 
cohesion
Several strategic programmes act as a foundation for the creative 
economy, inclusivity through participation of rural youth, enhancing 
livelihoods for art graduates and promoting Sri Lankan artistic talent in 
the global art community: 
	y
JKF collaborated with The George Keyt Foundation in presenting the 
31st Kala Pola which was attended by an estimated 38,000 visitors 
and generating an estimated revenue in excess of Rs.51 million for 
368 artists. JKF was also the Patrol Sponsor of the inaugural Matara 
Festival for the Arts which attracted an estimated 4,000 visitors, many 
of which were rural youth. 
	y
JKF remains a major benefactor of The Museum of Modern and 
Contemporary Art, Sri Lanka which engaged more than 29,000 visitors 
during the year by providing an essential cultural and tourism offering in 
Colombo and catalysing international recognition for Sri Lankan artists. 
	y
JKF also continues as primary sponsor to support the Gratiaen Prize 
and the H A I Goonetilleke Prize for Literary Translation as well as 
other activities of the Gratiaen Trust dedicated, to in uplifting  
Sri Lanka's literary creative industry.
	y
In building resources to develop local craft and artisans, JKF 
supported the Ena De Silva Foundation in archiving and exhibiting 
the works of Ena de Silva, a pioneer in Sri Lanka's batik and 
embroidery industry and the Chitrasena Vajira Dance Foundation.
Group Volunteerism
	y
During the year in review, JKF recorded a total of 4,243 hours of 
CSR volunteerism by 565 staff volunteers in 1,061 instances across 
the John Keells Group in respect of activities conducted by JKF. This 
number excludes substantial volunteer activities undertaken at the 
business or sector level. 
DIVIDENDS
The Company paid a first and second interim dividend of Rs.0.50 per 
share in December 2023 and March 2024, respectively.
Your Board maintained the final dividend for 2023/24 at Rs.0.50 per 
share. Accordingly, the dividend declared for 2023/24 is Rs.1.50 per share. 
The final dividend for 2023/24 will be paid on or before 25 June 2024. 
The Group will follow its dividend policy which corresponds with 
growth in profits, whilst ensuring that the Company maintains adequate 
funds to ensure business continuity and to fund its pipeline of strategic 
investments. 
RETIREMENT AND APPOINTMENT OF DIRECTORS
Ms. Premila Perera retired from the JKH Board with effect from 1 July 2023, 
having completed nine years on the Board. I wish to place on record our 
deep appreciation for the invaluable contribution made by Ms. Perera 
during her tenure on the Board.
Mr. Nihal Fonseka will retire from the JKH Board with effect from 1 July 
2024, having served on the Board for over nine years. I would like to place 
on record our deep appreciation for the invaluable contribution made by 
Mr. Fonseka during his tenure on the Board and as the Senior Independent 
Director.
As announced to the Colombo Stock Exchange, Mr. Suren Fernando was 
appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director of JKH, with effect 
from 9 August 2023.
Dr. Hans Wijayasuriya, who has functioned as an Independent Non-
Executive Director since 2016, will be appointed as the Senior Independent 
Director with effect from 1 July 2024.
Further, Mr. Manil Jayesinghe will be appointed as an Independent  
Non-Executive Director of JKH, with effect from 1 July 2024.  
“The macroeconomic recovery momentum and the 
path to fiscal and monetary consolidation is still in 
its early days but the authorities and Government 
has been steadfast and disciplined in its 
management of the economy and broadly kept to 
the parameters of the IMF-EFF programme, which is 
an imperative if we are to continue to emerge from 
the crisis. It is crucial that we support and continue 
on this path with no deviation as the space to do so 
is extremely limited, or possibly non-existent.”

21
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
CONCLUSION
The year under review was a year of consolidation for the country as we 
emerged from multiple years of turmoil and disturbances. It was the first 
year since 2018 where the country had a relatively stable environment, 
economically, socially and politically. The macroeconomic recovery 
momentum and the path to fiscal and monetary consolidation is still in 
its early days but the authorities and Government have been steadfast 
and disciplined in its management of the economy and broadly kept to 
the parameters of the IMF-EFF programme, which is an imperative if we 
are to continue to emerge from the crisis. It is crucial that we support and 
continue on this path with no deviation as the space to do so is extremely 
limited, or possibly non-existent. While the authorities have implemented 
measures to ensure social safety nets are in place, a transparent and full 
roll-out of the direct cash transfer mechanism will be vital to ensure the 
most vulnerable segments of our community are protected. 
As reflected in the theme of our Annual Report last year, we anticipated 
a 'Re-Rating' for the country and the John Keells Group. As highlighted 
in this Message and throughout this Report, it is pleasing that both the 
country and your Group has made steady and certain progress towards 
this ambition which should pave the way for a sustained and strong 
period of growth in the years ahead.
While the country witnessed a period of consolidation and strong recovery 
momentum in the second half of the year, your Group also witnessed a 
similar trend. While the financial results for the year demonstrate a steady 
performance, this year, as expected, it was a period of consolidation as we 
focus on bringing to life the transformational projects of the Group. In that 
context, the current financial year has been an extremely satisfying and 
rewarding one as many of the significant components of work, particularly 
to do with our integrated resort project, began to fall into place. 
Our theme of the Report this year of 'Dreams to Life' epitomises and 
encapsulates the efforts of numerous teams over the last many years and 
how what started out as a vision, has now, after many obstacles, setbacks, 
challenges and trials, converted into the iconic and transformational 
project that was begun a decade ago. The culmination of these efforts 
from numerous teams over the years, both internal and external, is a 
testament to the resolve and resilience of the people of the Group. 
As this Dream transforms to Life, with the initial opening of the 
'Cinnamon Life' hotel at 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka', we are committed 
to ensure that all our efforts will be focused on operationalising and 
delivering the best-in-class service and hospitality that will ultimately 
define the success of this project. 
The announcement regarding the varying aspects of the partnership 
with Melco is a culmination of the efforts over the last 12 months, and 
beyond, in terms of the development and vision of the integrated resort 
project itself and is an achievement which will hold the Group in good 
stead over the years to come. While the journey has just begun, and we 
have to ensure we optimise commercial aspects of the 'City of Dreams 
Sri Lanka', we are conscious that laying a strong platform and having the 
necessary and right formulae for success is also crucial as we embark on 
operationalising 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka'. We look forward to the opening 
of the 'Cinnamon Life' hotel and related facilities, including uniquely 
positioning itself to capitalise on the Meetings, Incentives, Conferences 
and Events (MICE) segments, from the third quarter of 2024/25 with much 
excitement and confidence that the physical infrastructure developed 
will be brought to life with the standards and experience that we believe 
'Cinnamon' is known for. 
We have also made significant progress with the West Container 
Terminal project with phase 1 of operations expected to commence in 
the fourth quarter of 2024/25. As disclosed previously, this terminal will 
add the much-needed deep water capacity for the Port of Colombo and 
will result in capacity lead growth, as seen before, for the overall Port of 
Colombo, which will also benefit the investment by the Group. 
While the two transformational investments have naturally been a 
focus of the Group, I am pleased that we have made significant strides 
in many of our other businesses which will pave the way for strong 
growth, particularly as the country recovers and we look forward to a 
period of sustained growth. Our investments in data-driven decision-
making and transformation have provided our businesses with the 
necessary tools to significantly improve customer centricity and creating 
an eco-system where we can understand and deliver services to our 
customers at exceptional levels. The partnership with BYD Auto Industry 
Company Limited, uniquely positions the Group to drive Sri Lanka's 
new energy vehicles (NEV) market with eco-friendly vehicles. Similarly, 
the partnership with the Reliance Group, while in its early days, creates 
a platform for entering into a vast market such as India and paves the 
way to establish our 'Elephant House' brand in the minds of the Indian 
consumer. This will not be a task that can be achieved easily, but having 
strong partnerships, as we have done, will improve our probability for 
success.
In conclusion, on behalf of the Board of Directors and all employees 
of the John Keells Group, I thank all our stakeholders for the support 
extended to the Group during the year. I also wish to thank all staff of the 
John Keells Group for their unstinted commitment, understanding and 
cooperation throughout this year, which has collectively contributed 
towards building our strong foundation. 
Finally, I thank my colleagues on the Board and the Group Executive 
Committee for their valuable guidance and support during the year.
Krishan Balendra 
Chairperson
21 May 2024
“Our theme of the Report this year of 'Dreams to 
Life' epitomises and encapsulates the efforts of 
numerous teams over the last many years and 
how what started out as a vision, has now, after 
many obstacles, setbacks, challenges and trials, 
converted into the iconic and transformational 
project that was begun a decade ago. The 
culmination of these efforts from numerous 
teams over the years, both internal and 
external, is a testament to the resolve and 
resilience of the people of the Group.”

22 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
INVESTOR RELATIONS
GROUP HIGHLIGHTS
The ensuing section details the key highlights of the year under review, 
followed by an overview of the key verticals, its industry potential, 
outlook and the initiatives that are undertaken to drive growth. 
The JKH Investor Presentations are available on the Corporate Website to provide easier access and 
in-depth details of the operational performance of the Group.
https://www.keells.com/investor-relations
FINANCIAL AND MANUFACTURED CAPITAL
Group debt (excluding both lease liabilities and the convertible 
debenture liability)
Net debt (excluding both lease liabilities and the convertible 
debenture liability)
Rs.203.90 billion
Rs.117.07 billion
2022/23: Rs.211.37 billion
2022/23: Rs.111.03 billion
4%
5%
Rs.million
Q4
2023/24
Q4
2022/23
Variance 
%
Transportation
2,328 
1,537 
791 
51
Consumer Foods
2,140 
540 
1,600 
297
Retail
2,402 
2,176 
226 
10
Leisure
5,150 
3,831 
1,319 
34
Property
(634)
466 
(1,100)
(236)
Financial Services
1,861 
1,899 
(38)
(2)
Other*
725 
1,198 
(473)
(40)
Group
13,971 
11,647 
2,324 
20
*Other, including Information Technology and Plantation Services.
	y
During the fourth quarter, the Group reported a strong performance 
across most businesses, with Consumer Foods, Transportation and 
Leisure, in particular, recording significant growth. The performance 
seen in most of the businesses is a reflection of the improving 
macroeconomic conditions in the country and is a continuation of 
the growth momentum witnessed in the third quarter of 2023/24. 
	y
Recurring Group EBITDA in the fourth quarter of 2023/24 recorded 
a growth of 20% to Rs.13.97 billion [Q4 2022/23: Rs.11.65 billion]. 
This growth is despite a higher surplus recognition at UA in the 
fourth quarter of the previous year due to a timing difference, and 
the appreciation of the Sri Lankan Rupee by ~12%. The average 
exchange rate was Rs.355 in the fourth quarter of 2022/23 compared 
to Rs.313 in the fourth quarter 2023/24, which had a negative 
translation impact on businesses with foreign currency denominated 
revenue streams. Further, the Group recognised of an asset write-
off amounting to Rs.639 million in the Property industry group, as 
explained below. 
	y
The strong growth in the Transportation industry group was driven 
by the Bunkering business, Lanka Marine Services, on account of a 
significant growth in volumes over 50% due to the Red Sea crisis 
which resulted in an increase in vessel traffic to the coastal waters 
of Sri Lanka. The Group's Port and Shipping business, South Asia 
Gateway Terminals (SAGT), recorded an increase in throughput of 
13%. which drove growth in profitability. 
	y
Both the Frozen Confectionery and Beverages businesses recorded 
strong growth in profitability, driven by improved margins and 
significant volume increases of 24% and 42%, respectively. It should 
be noted that volumes in the fourth quarter of the previous year 
were lower given the reduction in consumer discretionary spend. 
The volume growth is encouraging, particularly in Beverages, where 
selling prices of certain SKUs were increased to cover the higher 
sugar tax and VAT rate increase. Favourable weather conditions, 
where the country encountered higher than usual temperatures, also 
supported the growth in volumes. 
	y
Profitability of the Supermarket business was driven by growth in 
same store sales of 11%, driven by a growth in footfall of 14%. EBITDA 
recorded growth despite the cost escalations compared to the 
previous quarter, primarily due to the significant increase in electricity 
tariffs. The business is expected to see an improvement in energy 
costs in 2024/25 due to the downward revision of electricity tariffs in 
March 2024.
	y
Profitability of the Leisure industry group was driven by a strong 
recovery in the Sri Lankan Leisure businesses, on the back of a 
sustained recovery in tourist arrivals to the country, which resulted 
in higher occupancy and a significant improvement in ARRs across 
the portfolio. The Maldivian Resorts and Destination Management 
businesses also saw encouraging growth in EBITDA. The costs 
pertaining to the ramp up associated with the 'Cinnamon Life' hotel 
at 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka' increased on account of the impending 
opening of the hotel in Q3 2024/25.
	y
The Property industry group EBITDA includes an asset write-off 
amounting to Rs.639 million relating to the closure of the 'K-Zone' 
mall in Ja-Ela for the development of the 'VIMAN' residential project, 
resulting in the existing assets becoming redundant. Given the 
demand for suburban living spaces, the Group is of the view that 
the project is an optimum monetisation of such land through 
development and sales. Excluding the asset write-off, the Property 
industry group EBITDA was Rs.5 million.
	y
NTB recorded a significant growth in profitability driven by robust 
loan growth. UA recorded a higher surplus and shareholder profit 
although this did not reflect in the quarterly performance due to a 
timing difference of the recognition of the surplus in the previous 
year which impacted the base. 
Recurring EBITDA Analysis - Fourth Quarter

23
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Annual Recurring PBT
Rs.million
2023/24
2022/23
2021/22
2020/21
Transportation
6,401
10,903 
5,712
3,269
Consumer Foods  
2,957 
1,052 
2,319
2,304
Retail  
2,933 
504 
3,056
1,608
Leisure 
3,313 
(386)
(1,512)
(8,546)
Property
(857)
(2,186)
7,650
(109)
Financial Services
9,293 
6,400 
4,995
3,360
Other, incl. Information 
Technology and 
Plantation Services
(7,446)
7,483 
2,213
1,612
Group
16,593
23,771
24,432
3,498
Insights - Capital Expenditure
The Group has carried out significant investments which have 
continued steadfastly, maintaining the depth and breadth of the 
Group's long-term investment strategy which is now coming to fruition.
The investments in recent years have focused on a refurbished 
portfolio of Leisure properties and the acquisition of a long-term 
lease on a new hotel in the Maldives. The Group has also doubled 
its store footprint in the Supermarket business to over 130 outlets 
and investments to enhance capacity and capability in the Frozen 
Confectionery and Insurance businesses have been undertaken. 
The Group's integrated resort 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka', which has 
been under construction for the past 10 years and comprises of 
a significant allocation of capital employed, is near complete and 
slated to commence operations in the third quarter of 2024/25.
The key investments the Group will focus on in the near-term:
	y
Balance investment towards the completion of 'City of Dreams 
Sri Lanka' 
	y
Investment towards the West Container Terminal (WCT-1) of the 
Port of Colombo
	y
Roll-out of the Supermarket outlets
	y
Completion of the 215-key hotel in Kandy, which follows an 
asset-light investment model, where the Group will hold a 40% 
minority equity stake.
Maturity Analysis of Interest Bearing Borrowings
0
20
40
60
80
100
Composition
(%)
Composition
(%)
Payments (principal and interest)
on interest bearing borrowings
(Rs.billion)
Payments (principal and interest)
on interest bearing borrowings
(Rs.billion)
FY25
FY26
FY27
FY28
FY29
FY30
onwards
Leisure
Holding Company
Retail
All other industry groups
Total (Rs.billion)
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
The following should be noted with regard to the illustration above: 
1.	 Interest bearing borrowings do not include the convertible 
debentures issued in August 2022. The liability component 
amounting to Rs.10.20 billion is recognised under Non-Current 
Financial Liabilities. In the event the debenture is not converted 
during the conversion window, since a portion of debentures were 
already converted, an obligation for Rs.12.76 billion will materialise in 
August 2025.
2.	 The USD 219 million term loan facility at Waterfront Properties 
(Private) Limited, captured under Leisure, falls due for repayment in 
December 2026. Based on the structuring of the loan, ~75% of the 
loan is due for repayment in the final year where the intention and 
strategy would be to refinance a component at that juncture. 
3.	 The USD 175 million term loan from the IFC, captured under the 
Holding Company, falls due for repayment in equally amortising 
capital repayments from December 2024 onwards.
Financial Highlights
Group (Rs.million)
2023/24
2022/23
2021/22
Revenue – consolidated 
317,109
311,478
244,295
Recurring profit before interest 
and tax (EBIT)
32,888
34,944
31,149
Recurring profit before 
interest, tax, depreciation and 
amortisation (EBITDA)
43,796
45,740
39,259
Recurring profit before tax (PBT)
16,593
23,771
24,432
Recurring profit after tax (PAT)
11,115
20,739
20,760
Net debt*
117,071
111,029
77,611
*Excludes both lease liabilities and the convertible debenture liability.
Refer Financial and Manufactured Capital Review - page 56
Group Revenue excl. equity 
accounted investees 
Recurring Group PBT
Recurring Group EBITDA
Total Assets
Rs.280.77 billion
Rs.16.59 billion
Rs.43.80 billion
Rs.771.19 billion
2022/23: Rs.276.64 billion
2022/23: Rs.23.77 billion
2022/23: Rs.45.74 billion
2022/23: Rs.744.51 billion
1%
30%
4%
4%
Annual Recurring EBITDA
Rs.million
2023/24
2022/23
2021/22
2020/21
Transportation
7,570
11,963 
6,141
3,610 
Consumer Foods  
4,993 
3,184 
3,485
3,318 
Retail  
8,762 
8,779 
7,549
5,523 
Leisure 
9,059 
8,604 
3,785
(3,588)
Property
(822)
(265)
7,867
(17) 
Financial Services
9,296 
6,451 
5,024
3,645 
Other*
4,938 
7,024 
5,408
3,082
Group
43,796
45,740
39,259 
15,572 
*Other, including Information Technology and Plantation Services.
The key operational and financial highlights of our performance during the 
year under review, can be found in the Chairperson's Message - page 9

24 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
INVESTOR RELATIONS
GROUP HIGHLIGHTS
Industry group-wise quarterly performance
As evident from the table below, the Group's performance across the quarters illustrates the recovery momentum during the year under review. 
Profitability gathered pace from quarter to quarter in line with overall economic activity. 
	y
Q1: Sri Lanka continued to witness normal day-to-day activities with all key macroeconomic indicators showing sustained improvement, with 
inflation and interest rates recording a decline and the Rupee appreciating on the back of improved foreign exchange inflows and confidence. 
Most of the Group's businesses, particularly in Transportation and Leisure, had a negative impact on the financial performance due to the 
translation impact on account of the appreciation of the Rupee by ~11% over the comparative period, which impacted the overall EBITDA of 
the Group in Q1. Strong growth in the Financial Services industry group helped cushion this impact.
	y
Q2: Group businesses, except for Transportation and Property, recorded growth in profitability. The operating environment in the country 
continued its gradual normalisation supported by sustained improvement in the country's key macroeconomic indicators, and enhanced 
confidence levels. Similar to Q1, performance of the Transportation industry group was impacted by the strong domestic currency in 
comparison to the comparative period. 
	y
Q3: The Group recorded a strong performance in Q3 with all businesses, other than the Transportation industry group, recording strong 
growth in recurring profits, on the back of a more stabilised operating environment. The Transportation industry group continued to be 
affected by the stronger Rupee.
	y
Q4: The notable increase in tourism and the overall macroeconomic stability of the country, aided Group businesses, especially the Leisure 
industry group. Both the Beverages and Frozen Confectionery businesses also recorded strong volume growth and improved profitability as 
a result of a better absorption of fixed costs. The Transportation industry group was able to leverage on the various opportunities that arose 
from increased shipping traffic in the region stemming from the rerouting of ships due to the Red Sea crisis. 
Recurring EBITDA
Rs.million
YoY %
FY24
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Transportation
1,615 
1,700 
1,928 
2,328 
 (65)
(44)
(32)
51 
Consumer Foods
720 
1,237 
897 
2,140 
(42)
23 
123 
297 
Retail
1,987 
1,983 
2,390 
2,402 
(14)
1 
3 
10 
Leisure
284 
1,065 
2,560 
5,150 
(85)
6 
35 
34 
Property
187 
(435)
60 
(634)
234 
(56)
119 
(236)
Financial Services
1,693 
1,702 
4,040 
1,861 
93 
54 
57 
(2)
Other, including Information Technology and 
Plantation Services 
1,937 
810 
1,466 
725 
(26)
(44)
(16)
(40)
Group
8,422 
8,061 
13,342 
13,971 
(37)
(13)
16 
20 
Group Revenue
Rs.million
YoY %
FY24
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Transportation
 11,373 
 8,871 
 12,584 
 18,337 
 (53)
 (56)
 (18)
 30 
Consumer Foods
 7,967 
 8,082 
 6,931 
 9,917 
 4 
 (4)
 (5)
 26 
Retail
 29,996 
 30,079 
 32,569 
 29,858 
 17 
 16 
 16 
 9 
Leisure
 8,653 
 10,708 
 12,809 
 15,715 
 0 
 33 
 20 
 27 
Property
 356 
 332 
 449 
 466 
 (40)
 (52)
 12 
 7 
Financial Services
 4,086 
 4,544 
 5,436 
 4,599 
 22 
 14 
 12 
 15 
Other, including Information Technology and 
Plantation Services 
 1,348 
 1,498 
 1,482 
 1,729
 (20)
 (19)
 (11)
 3 
Group
 63,778 
 64,114 
 72,260 
 80,621 
 (11)
 (7)
 6 
 19 

25
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Dividend 
	y
The Company paid two interim dividends for 2023/24, amounting to 
Rs.0.50 per share, each, in December 2023 and March 2024.
	y
Accordingly, the final dividend for 2023/24 was maintained at Rs.0.50 
per share. The final dividend is to be paid on or before 25 June 2024. 
The total dividend declared for 2023/24 is Rs.1.50 per share (2022/23: 
Rs.2.00 per share).  
	y
The Company dividend payout ratio for 2023/24 is 28% with a total 
dividend outlay of Rs.2.08 billion [2022/23: Rs.2.77 billion]. The Group 
payout ratio was at 18% during the year [2022/23:15%].
	y
The Group will follow its dividend policy which corresponds with 
growth in profits whilst ensuring that the Company maintains 
adequate funds to support business continuity and fund its pipeline 
of strategic investments.
Market Information of the Ordinary Shares of the Company
2023/24
2022/23
Average daily turnover (Rs.million)
725
105
Percentage of total market turnover (%)
12.4
5.0
Market capitalisation (Rs.million)
290,771
193,888
Percentage of total market capitalisation (%)
6.4
5.0
ECONOMIC VALUE ADDED STATEMENT
*Includes interest income from life insurance policyholder funds at Union Assurance PLC and foreign exchange gains.
Distributions to Shareholders and Payout Ratio
Distributions to Shareholders and Payout Ratio
(Rs.billion)
(Rs.billion)
(%)
(%)
FY20
FY21
FY22
FY23
FY24
0
1
2
3
4
5
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
Dividend paid
Group dividend payout (%)
4.6
49
2.0
41
2.0
10
2.8
15
2.1
18
Employee Wages 
and Benefits 
Rs.28,647 mn
2022/23: Rs.23,530 mn
Payments to 
Providers of Funds
Rs.22,628 mn
2022/23: Rs.21,297 mn
Amortisation
Rs.4,919 mn
2022/23: Rs.5,004 mn
Depreciation
Rs.6,545 mn
2022/23: Rs.6,281 mn
Profit After Dividends
Rs.9,168 mn
2022/23: Rs.15,404 mn
Operating 
Costs
Rs.239,344 mn
2022/23: Rs.236,938 mn
Payments to 
Government
Rs.6,976 mn
2022/23: Rs.6,507 mn
Share of Results of Equity 
Accounted Investees
Rs.10,129 mn
2022/23: Rs.7,574 mn
Finance Income*
Rs.22,567 mn
2022/23: Rs.26,900 mn
Revenue
Rs.280,773 mn
2022/23: Rs.276,640 mn
Profit on Sale of Assets 
and Other Income
Rs.4,510 mn
2022/23: Rs.3,261 mn
Community 
Investments
Rs.202 mn
2022/23: Rs.293 mn
Direct Economic  
Value Generated
Rs.318,429 mn
2022/23: Rs.315,254 mn
Economic Value 
Distributed
Rs.297,797 mn
2022/23: Rs.288,565 mn
Economic Value 
Retained
Rs.20,632 mn
2022/23: Rs.26,689 mn
Valuation Gain/(Loss) on 
Investment Property
Rs.450 mn
2022/23: Rs.879 mn

26 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
INVESTOR RELATIONS
GROUP HIGHLIGHTS
GOVERNANCE
58
42
(%)
Shareholding Structure
Foreign
Domestic
99%
free-ﬂoat
99%
free-ﬂoat
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Initiatives
	y
As a part of the Group's ongoing efforts towards increasing emphasis on ESG aspects, the 
Group undertook initiatives to further strengthen its ESG framework and identify focus 
areas for each industry Group that dovetail into Group level priorities based on relevance 
and materiality. 
	y
In collaboration with an international consulting firm, the Group conducted an in-depth study 
across its businesses to identify areas of significant impact, risk and materiality. This initiative was 
led by a steering committee appointed by the Group Executive Committee (GEC). 
	y
Workshops were convened across the industry groups to assess and formulate ESG 
ambitions for the respective businesses to aid the Group in developing comprehensive 
roadmaps aimed at achieving the set ESG ambitions. As a part of this process, businesses 
were benchmarked against regional peers and best-in-class practices of the respective 
industries the businesses operate in.
	y
Data governance initiatives: 
•	 The Data Governance Steering Committee was established to facilitate the review and 
enhancement of existing data governance practices of the Group, in compliance with 
applicable laws and best practice. 
•	 The Group piloted and implemented a series of new initiatives throughout the year to 
strengthen the effectiveness of the forensic data analytics platform and related capabilities 
to complement Continuous Controls Monitoring (CCM) and internal audit engagements.
	y
Cybersecurity initiatives: 
•	 The Group engaged with a leading international consultancy firm to conduct a 
comprehensive assessment of the Group's cybersecurity resilience, by aligning with industry 
best practice and recommended technological principles. 
•	 As a part of the ongoing commitment towards improving cyber security and digitisation, 
an 'Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR)' solution was implemented across the Group. 
A SMART Office mobile application was also rolled-out across the Group to empower 
employees with the necessary tools to improve mobility, streamline and automate processes, 
and increase productivity.
	y
The Group strengthened its internal policy universe, keeping in line with best practice and the 
revised CSE Listing Rules.
The current composition of the JKH Board
Designation
Gender
Age group
Board tenure
(years)
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
ED
SID
NED
40-50
51-60
>60
<8
5-8
Below 5
Male
Female
INTERNAL GOVERNANCE 
STRUCTURE
Board of Directors and  
Senior Management Committees
Chairperson-CEO
Group Executive Committee (GEC)
Group Operating Committee (GOC)
Group Management Committee (GMC)
Sector Committee
Management Committee
Employee Empowerment
Board of 
Directors
Human Resources 
and Compensation 
Committee
Related Party 
Transactions 
Review 
Committee
Audit 
Committee
Nominations 
Committee
Project Risk 
Assessment 
Committee
Transparency in Corporate Reporting
JKH was ranked first in the Transparency in Corporate Reporting (TRAC) Assessment by 
Transparency International Sri Lanka (TISL) for the fourth consecutive year, with a 100% score for 
transparency in disclosure practices.
ED – Executive Director	 NED – Non-Executive Director
SID – Senior Independent Director
Board Appointments and Retirements in 
2023/24
	y
Having completed nine consecutive years, 
Ms. P Perera (Independent, Non-Executive 
Director) retired from the Board of 
Directors with effect from 1 July 2023. 
	y
Mr. S Fernando was appointed to the 
Board as an Independent, Non-Executive 
Director of the Company with effect 
from 9 August 2023.
One JKH - Diversity, Equity and Inclusion 
Initiative 
The Group has set a goal of increasing women 
participation in its employee cadre up to 40% 
by the end of 2025/26. In this regard, women 
participation as at the end of the year 2023/24 
stood at 33%.
Refer the Corporate Governance Commentary 
for further details – Page 213

27
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
NATURAL CAPITAL
INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL
1,091,471 m3
117,591 MT
9,581 MT
25%
964,266 GJ
56%
51%
124,455 GJ
186 MT
2023/24
2022/23*
2021/22
Energy consumption: non-renewable sources (GJ) 1
           358,933 
        352,771 
          301,172 
Energy consumption: non-renewable sources (GJ) per Rs.million of revenue
                 1.28 
              1.28 
                1.65 
Energy consumption: renewable sources (GJ) 2
           124,455 
        122,568 
          127,825 
Energy consumption: renewable sources (GJ) per Rs.million of revenue
                 0.44 
              0.44 
                0.70 
Purchased energy: national grid (GJ) 3
           480,878 
        399,319 
          390,654 
Purchased energy: national grid (GJ) per Rs.million of revenue
                 1.71 
              1.44 
                2.14 
Total energy consumption (1) + (2) + (3)
           964,266 
        874,658 
          819,651 
Direct greenhouse gas emissions – Scope 1 (MT)
             26,545 
          25,979 
            27,507 
Indirect greenhouse gas emissions – Scope 2 (MT)
             91,046 
          75,604 
            71,188 
Total carbon footprint (MT)
           117,591 
        101,584 
            98,695 
Total carbon footprint (MT) per Rs.million of revenue
                 0.42 
              0.37 
                0.53 
Greenhouse gas emissions from combustion of biomass (MT)
          7,152.61 
       8,050.34 
        9,171.51 
Water withdrawal (m3)
2,221,494 
     2,032,035 
      1,843,259 
Water withdrawal (m3) per Rs.million of revenue
                 7.92 
              7.35 
              10.10 
Water discharge (m3)
1,130,023 
   1,297,369 
      1,305,676 
Volume of hazardous waste generated (MT)
                  365 
                314 
                 337 
Volume of non-hazardous waste generated (MT)
               9,216 
            7,993 
              7,855 
Non-hazardous waste recycled/reused by Group companies and through third party contractors (%)
                    56 
                  46 
                   32 
Significant environmental fines
 Nil 
Nil
Nil
*2022/23 has been restated.
Total water consumed across all 
business units.
Total carbon footprint across all 
business units.
Total waste generated across all 
business units.
Percentage of treated  
non-hazardous waste recycled.
Total plastics waste collected.
Total units of energy consumed 
across all business units.
Total units of renewable energy 
consumed across all business units.
Percentage of treated water out of 
total water consumption.
Percentage of recycled water out of 
treated water.
	y
Ranked first as the 'Most Respected Entity' in Sri Lanka for the 18th 
year at the 19th annual edition of LMD's Most Respected Entities 
rankings. The rankings are based on the survey commissioned 
and conceptualised by LMD and conducted by NielsenIQ.
	y
Gold award for Best Investor Relations at the Capital Market 
Awards 2023 organised by the CFA Society Sri Lanka.
	y
Received the 'Organisation Promoting Equity/Equality and 
Diversity of the Year' at the 'Top 50 Professional & Career 
Women Global Awards – Thirteenth Edition' in 2023, by 
Women in Management (WIM) in partnership with IFC and 
the Government of Australia.
AWARDS
	y
OCTAVE, the Data and Advanced Analytics Centre of Excellence of the 
Group, transitioned into an independent advanced analytics practice during 
the year.
	y
The ongoing assessment of the impact to business of these advanced 
analytics solutions, post roll-out and complete business-wide adoption 
has provided strong evidence that the anticipated benefits that were 
evident through initial pilot projects are being sustained at scale once fully 
implemented.
	y
A number of use cases are deployed at scale across the Supermarket 
and Consumer Foods businesses, while a detailed roadmap of advanced 
analytics use cases are developed for Leisure and Financial Services.

28 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
INVESTOR RELATIONS
HUMAN CAPITAL
Total staff members of the group.
15,314
Gender ratio (Male: Female)
67 : 33
Total training hours.
1,404,614 h
Average employee attrition rate.
28%
Total Number of Injuries.
254
Total investment on training and 
development
Rs.18.4 million
2023/24
2022/23*
2021/22
Total workforce (employees and contractors' staff )
20,614
22,250
21,200
Employees**
15,314
15,415
14,700
Outsourced personnel (neither staff employees nor seasonal workers)
5,300
6,835
6,500
Employee benefit liability as of 31 March (Rs.million) 
3,590 
2,559
3,107
Total attrition (%)
28
31
29
New hires (%)
68
64
76
Number of people educated on serious diseases
***
***
***
Average hours of training per employee
              92 
26
25
No. of employees receiving performance reviews (%)
100
100
100
Incidences of child labour (below age 16)
0
0
0
Incidents of forced labour during the year
0
0
0
*2022/23 has been restated.
**Of the Group's total employees, 543 are placed in the Maldives, with the remainder domiciled in Sri Lanka.
*** Not conducted this year.
GROUP HIGHLIGHTS
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL
Total CSR Spend.
Rs.187 million
Total Land Area Impacted.
75.25 Acres
Number of Suppliers Engaged.
83
Sourcing from Local Suppliers.
86%
Businesses Analysed for Risk of 
Corruption.
100%
Total people impacted.
1,952,511
People benefited from  
Education-related projects.
7,114
People benefited from Livelihood 
Development projects.
512,889
People benefited from  
Health-related projects.
1,325,631
People benefited from Arts and 
Culture projects.
105,669
People benefited from Disaster 
Relief projects.
255
People benefited from 
Environment-related projects.
953
2023/24
2022/23*
2021/22
Community services and infrastructure projects (Rs.million)
187
397
97
Proportion of purchases from suppliers within Sri Lanka (%) 
86
81
90
Community engagement (no. of persons impacted)
1,952,511
1,553,971
1,955,639
Sustainability integration awareness (no. of business partners)
200
201
89
Business partners screened for labour, environment and human rights (no. of business partners)
83
63
65
Proportion of labels carrying ingredients used (%)
77
76
76
Proportion of labels carrying information on disposal (%)
96
95
89
Proportion of labels carrying sourcing of components (%)
3
3
1
Monetary value of significant fines** (Rs.)
***
***
***
Proportion of businesses analysed for risk of corruption (%)
100
100
100
*2022/23 has been restated.
**Significant fines are defined as fines over Rs.1 million.
*** No significant fines.

29
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
TRANSPORTATION
Industry Potential
	y
Ongoing capacity enhancements at the 
POC and shipping lines opting for 'hub 
and spoke' services will spearhead the 
thrust to establish Colombo as a leading 
transshipment hub in the region.
	y
Envisaged increase in bunkering market 
share driven by increased storage and 
infrastructure.
	y
Growing demand for logistics services 
through growth in inbound project cargo 
and other major industries.
Our Business 
	y
42% stake in SAGT – container terminal 
(capacity of ~2 million TEUs).
	y
Development of the WCT-1 (capacity of ~3.2 
million TEUs).
	y
Leading bunkering services provider both in 
the West Coast and the Sri Lankan market.
	y
One of the largest cargo and logistics 
service providers in the country.
	y
JVs with Deutsche post for DHL air express, 
AP Moller for Maersk Lanka and Inchcape 
Shipping Services for IMMS.
	y
GSA for KLM Royal Dutch Airlines and Gulf 
Air. 
	y
Warehousing and supply chain 
management.
	y
Domestic scheduled and charter air flight 
operations.
The Port of Colombo (POC) is strategically 
positioned on the main East-West shipping routes.
Dar es Salaam
Lamu
Aden
Bahl
Gwadar
Karachi
Yangon
Chennai
Mumbai
Kochi
Mombasa
Kolkata
Chittagong
Visakhapatnam
INDUSTRY GROUP HIGHLIGHTS
Strategy and Outlook 
Immediate to Short-Term 
Ports, Shipping and Bunkering 
	y
Higher vessel movement through the POC as well as increased bunker demand driven by 
the Red Sea crisis expected to continue until the resolution of the crisis.
	y
The sustained economic growth in India will continue to support regional trade volumes 
which will benefit the POC considering its location and proximity to India.
 Logistics and Transportation 
	y
The macroeconomic recovery and the gradual normalisation of export volumes are 
anticipated to result in increased volumes.
	y
Increased airline frequencies into the country is likely to bode well for more competitive fares 
and supply which will translate to higher passenger volumes.
Medium to Long-Term  
Ports, Shipping and Bunkering 
	y
Anticipated growth in regional and global economies coupled with a rebound in the 
domestic economy is expected to facilitate a growth in overall volumes in the POC.
	y
While it's expected that majority of the new traffic stemming from the Red Sea crisis will 
revert to the Suez Canal post-resolution, Sri Lanka stands to benefit from heightened 
visibility and trust, potentially retaining some business in the long-term.
	y
Sustained growth of the Indian economy will, in addition to current volumes, be a long-term 
driver of volumes to the Port of Colombo.
	y
Continue to explore opportunities arising from the POC, Hambantota and Trincomalee, 
particularly in relation to bunkering and storage.
 Logistics and Transportation 
	y
Explore opportunities arising from the anticipated growth in regional and domestic 
trading activity, stemming from global economic recovery, and ongoing infrastructure 
developments in the country.
	y
Increased trading activity and investment in the tourism industry is expected to benefit the 
Airline segment.
Key Performance Indicators
2023/24
2022/23
%
2021/22
SAGT volumes
(TEU '000)
1,818
1,704
7
1,831
Transshipment: Domestic mix
90:10
87:13
86:14
Port of Colombo volumes
(TEU '000)
7,339
6,632
11
7,351
LMS volume growth
(%)
2
8
7
Warehouse space under management
(sq. ft. '000)
370
317*
17
337
* The Kotikawatta and Ekala warehouses were discontinued during the year under review. 
Capacity enhancements in the POC - WCT-1 and ECT.
SOUTH HARBOUR 
DEVELOPMENT
CURRENT 
HARBOUR
SAGT
East 
Terminal
West 
Terminal
South Terminal
JCT
CICT
WCT-1
ECT
Quarterly Performance
2023/2024
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4 Full Year
SAGT volumes
(TEU '000)
446
482
428
462
1,818
Port of Colombo volumes
(TEU '000)
1,838
1,809
1,683
2,009
7,339
LMS volume growth*
(%)
(19)
(11)
10
61
10
*Excluding local sales
West Container Terminal (WCT-1)
	y
The construction work on WCT-1 at the Port of Colombo is progressing well. The first batch of 
quay and yard cranes is expected to arrive in August 2024.
	y
The first phase of the terminal is slated to be operational in the fourth quarter of 2024/25. 
	y
The remainder of the terminal is expected to be completed in mid-2026.

30 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
INDUSTRY GROUP HIGHLIGHTS
INVESTOR RELATIONS
Industry Potential
	y
Per capita consumption of beverages at 14 litres, is below peer 
markets.
	y
Per capita consumption of ice creams at 3 litres, is far below 
developed markets.
	y
Bulk:Impulse ice cream mix in regional markets is highly skewed 
towards the Impulse segment, demonstrating significant potential 
within the Impulse category.
	y
Emerging 'health conscious' consumers and growing need for 
convenient and affordable main meal options.
Our Business 
	y
Strong market presence in beverages, frozen confectionery and 
processed meats through 'Elephant House' and 'Keells-Krest' brands.
	y
Frozen Confectionery products including premium ice cream range 
'Imorich' and the 'Feelgood' guiltfree frozen yoghurt range for 
customers seeking wellness and balanced lifestyles.
	y
A portfolio of CSD and non-CSD Beverages catering to a wide array of 
customers and island-wide distribution network.
100,000+
47
42:58 
2
Outlet reach
Ice Cream flavours
Revenue mix: 
Beverages (CSD):FC 
[FY23: 38:62] 
Frozen yoghurt flavours
13
CSD flavours
Insight into Quarterly Performance
	y
Volumes continued to recover during the first half of the 
year supported by the gradual recovery of the economy and 
consumer activity.
	y
In the second half of the year, growth in volumes of the 
Consumer Foods businesses were driven by seasonal sales, albeit 
from a lower base in the fourth quarter of 2022/23, as consumer 
disposable income was impacted by the increase in personal 
income taxes implemented with effect from 1 January 2023.
	y
The volumes of the Beverages (CSD) and FC businesses noted 
an encouraging recovery in Q4 2023/24 compared to the steep 
volume declines recorded in the fourth quarter of 2022/23.
Volume Growth
2023/24 (%)
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Full Year
Beverages (CSD)
(3)
5
0
42
10
Frozen 
Confectionery 
(10)
(2)
(2)
24
2
Bulk
(7)
1
1
29
5
Impulse
(14)
(6)
(7)
17
(2)
Convenience Foods
(35)
(18)
(1)
42
(9)
CONSUMER FOODS
Key Performance Indicators
%
2023/24
2022/23
2021/22
Volume Growth
Beverages (CSD)
10
(7)
18
Frozen Confectionery (FC)
2
(7)
17
Convenience Foods
(9)
(22)
12
EBITDA Margins 
Beverages and FC
17.1
10.8
16.8
Convenience Foods
2.7
9.0
16.1
PBT Margins
Beverages and FC
11.4
4.2
11.2
Convenience Foods
(6.3)
1.1
11.3
FY24
FY23
FY22
FY21
FY20
0
20
40
60
80
100
64
62
68
70
70
36
38
32
30
30
Bulk:Impulse Volume Mix of the FC Business
Bulk:Impulse Volume Mix of the FC Business
(%)
(%)
Bulk
Impulse
70
30
(%)
Bulk
Impluse
92
8
56
44
Sri Lanka
Sri Lanka
Thailand
Thailand
Malaysia
Malaysia
The Bulk:Impulse Mix of Regional Markets
The Bulk:Impulse Mix of Regional Markets

31
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
RETAIL
Strategy and Outlook 
Immediate to Short-Term 
	y
Consumer discretionary spend is envisaged to continue its 
encouraging recovery momentum similar to the trends witnessed 
in the latter half of 2023/24. 
	y
Margin pressure is likely to ease on the back of the recent 
reduction in electricity tariffs and the appreciation of the Rupee.
	y
Focus on operationalising the launch of the Beverages business's 
partnership with Reliance Consumer Products (RCPL) in India.
	y
The hotels, restaurants, and catering (HORECA) channel is 
expected to gradually recover in tandem with tourism recovery. 
	y
Advanced data analytics will be utilised to optimise promotional 
spend, distribution networks, and production planning.
Medium to Long-Term 
	y
Domestic demand conditions are envisaged to remain resilient 
in the medium-term driven by economic revival and improved 
consumer confidence.
	y
Significant growth potential exists in the consumer food 
products industry in Sri Lanka given the relatively low penetration 
compared to global and regional peers.
	y
Digitisation strategy will continue in the medium to long-term, 
focusing on advanced analytics for data-driven decision-making to 
optimise production practices, achieve cost savings, and identify 
growth opportunities.
Industry Potential
Supermarket Business
	y
Modern trade penetration at 17% is one of the lowest in the region.
	y
Growing popularity of modern trade as a result of:
•	 Convenient and modern shopping experience.
•	 Access to diverse categories and brands at affordable prices.
•	 Rising per capita income, rapid urbanisation and changing 
consumption patterns.
Office Automation Business
	y
Increased smartphone penetration in the country.
	y
Increased digital adoption within the country driven by smart mobile 
devices.
Our Business 
Supermarket Business
	y
134 modern trade outlets uniquely branded to cater to evolving 
consumer lifestyles.
	y
A state-of-the-art distribution centre (DC) centralising offerings 
across the dry, fresh, and chilled categories with a capacity for ~250 
outlets.
	y
Private label consisting of over 320 SKUs.
	y
'Nexus' - a loyalty programme with ~2.4 million members.
Office Automation Business
	y
John Keells Office Automation (JKOA) is the authorised distributor 
for Office Automation and IT enabled, world-renowned brands and 
a market leader in providing print solutions for corporates. Brands 
offered include Samsung, Toshiba and Asus.
Source: Company Analysis
Expansion Strategies 
	y
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC (CCS), entered into a partnership with one of India's largest conglomerates, Reliance Group, to manufacture, market, 
distribute and sell beverages under the 'Elephant House' brand across India.
	y
The partnership marks a significant milestone in amplifying presence in India, where market entry is challenging. The collaboration with a 
reputed partner such as Reliance, together with synergies due to the expertise and experience of both organisations, is expected to provide a 
strong platform for success.
	y
CCS acquired a polyethylene terephthalate (PET) bottling and can manufacturing plant, to support the expansion of the business's product portfolio 
into new market segments. 
Source: Retail and shopper trends in the Asia Pacific, AC Nielsen
0
30
60
90
120
150
India
Vietnam
Sri Lanka
Philippines
Indonesia
Thailand
Malaysia
Singapore
China
Hong Kong
Australia
New Zealand
Taiwan
Korea
Modern Trade Density
Modern Trade Density
Population (’000) per Store
Population (’000) per Store
132
47
30
21
7.3
4.7
4.5
3.7
3.6
3.4
3.0
2.5
1.9
0.9
0
20
40
60
80
Modern Retail Penetration
Modern Retail Penetration
(%)
(%)
Singapore
Malaysia
Hong Kong
Taiwan
Thailand
Sri Lanka
70
49
48
43
40
17

32 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
INVESTOR RELATIONS
Strategy and Outlook 
Immediate to Short-Term 
Supermarket Business
	y
Growth in footfall expected to continue driven by higher modern 
trade participation and the initiatives undertaken by 'Keells' to 
attract customers.
	y
ABV is likely to recover as the WOP – the number of items 
purchased in a basket – recovers in line with the recovery of the 
economy and improving consumer sentiment. 
	y
Margins will be supported by the increase in revenue as well as the 
reduction of electricity costs from the peak levels seen in 2023/24.
	y
The private label range and direct import portfolio to be enhanced 
to offer customers better choice and value for money. 
	y
The distribution centre is expected to contribute significantly to 
process and operational efficiencies as business volumes continue 
to ramp up.
Office Automation Business
	y
Volumes are expected to continue its recovery in line with the 
improvement in economic conditions although the disparity in 
pricing between the formal and grey market channels due to the 
imposition of VAT is a concern.
Medium to Long-Term 
Supermarket Business
	y
Capitalise on the relatively low penetration of modern trade in the 
country.
	y
Expansion of outlets in both urban and suburban areas through a 
mix of standard and 'extended format' stores, including rolling out 
more 'iconic' format stores given its success.
	y
Differentiating the shopping experience for its customers through 
its 'fresh' promise, service excellence and quality within five activity 
pillars; product, price, place, people and the customer.  
Office Automation Business
	y
Underlying demand for office automation solutions and smart 
mobile phones to be driven by increasing commercial activity and 
an improvement in business sentiment.
	y
Increased potential given the rapid urbanisation witnessed in 
recent years.
2023/24 (%)
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Same store sales growth 
17.6
10.4
10.7
10.7
Same store footfall growth 
8.8
10.6
15.7
14.4
ABV growth 
8.1
(0.2)
(4.3)
(3.2)
Key Performance Indicators
Supermarkets %
2023/24
2022/23*
2021/22*
Same store sales growth
12.3
47.6
12.9
Same store footfall growth
12.3
28.3
4.5
Average basket value growth
 (0.1)
15.1
8.0
EBITDA margin
6.9
7.5
7.8
PBT margin
1.5
1.1
1.3
*Given the pandemic-related disruptions, unprecedented inflation and changes in 
shopping patterns resulting in shifts in frequency, basket items, and purchase patterns 
of customers, the KPIs were distorted for the year.
	y
The Supermarket business recorded a growth in same store sales 
driven by higher customer footfall.
	y
Growth in same store footfall was driven by both existing and 
new customers. 
	y
Inflation moderated significantly from Q2 2023/24 onwards. As 
a result, the increase in the retail selling price (RSP) was relatively 
muted. This marginal increase in RSP was more than offset by 
the decline in weight of purchase (WOP) due to the reduction in 
spending on non-essential items, which impacted ABV growth. 
	y
The business witnessed an improving trend of WOP in Q4 given 
the recovering consumer sentiment, despite the reducing trend 
of inflation.
	y
EBITDA margins declined to 6.4% in 2023/24 primarily due to the 
impact of the electricity tariff revisions.
New Energy Vehicles
	y
JKH partnered with BYD Auto Industry Company Limited, the world's 
leading manufacturer of new energy vehicles (NEVs), to provide 
cutting-edge and eco-friendly vehicles to the Sri Lankan market.
	y
The prospect for contributing towards a more environmentally 
friendly and energy efficient alternative, which will support the 
country, is in alignment with the Group's sustainability agenda.
Key Performance Indicators
Office Automation %
2023/24
2022/23
2021/22
EBITDA margin
10.0
18.8
9.9
PBT margin
11.1*
(8.2)**
(3.5)**
*Impacted by exchange gains due to the appreciation of the Rupee.
**Impacted by exchange losses due to the steep depreciation of the Rupee.
INDUSTRY GROUP HIGHLIGHTS

33
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
LEISURE
Industry Potential
	y
Proximity to India and increased flight connectivity. 
	y
Infrastructure led growth driving MICE and corporate tourists. 
	y
Sought after tourist destination in the region, with increased 
popularity and recognition – centred around its natural diversity and 
cultural heritage. 
Cinnamon Citadel 
Kandy 
Trinco Blu by 
Cinnamon
Cinnamon Grand Colombo
Cinnamon Lakeside Colombo
Cinnamon Red Colombo
Habarana Village 
by Cinnamon
Cinnamon Lodge 
Habarana
Hikka Tranz by 
Cinnamon
Cinnamon Wild Yala 
Cinnamon Bey 
Beruwala
Bandaranaike 
International 
Airport
Cinnamon Bentota 
Beach
Velana International 
Airport
Cinnamon Dhonveli 
Maldives 
Cinnamon Velifushi 
Maldives
Cinnamon Hakuraa 
Huraa Maldives
Ellaidhoo Maldives 
by Cinnamon
Our Business 
	y
'Cinnamon', a well-established hospitality brand in Sri Lanka and the 
Maldives: 
•	 3 Colombo Hotels
•	 8 Sri Lankan Resorts 
•	 4 Maldivian Resorts
	y
Diverse product offering based on 'Inspired Living'. 
	y
Combined room inventory of 2,566 rooms under management in both 
Sri Lanka and the Maldives. 
	y
Land bank of 128 acres of freehold and 140 acres of leasehold land in 
key tourism locations.
	y
Leading inbound tour operator. 
Key Performance Indicators
2023/24
2022/23
2021/22
Colombo Hotels*
Occupancy
(%)
60
42
29
ARR
(USD)
78
64
70
EBITDA margin
(%)
11.8
7.0
1.5
Sri Lankan Resorts
Occupancy
(%)
68
41
32
ARR
(USD)
79
65
78
EBITDA margin
(%)
14.7
1.2
(7.2)
Maldivian Resorts
Occupancy
(%)
86
88
75
ARR**
(USD)
275
255
272
EBITDA margin
(%)
30.5
32.5
34.8
Quarterly Performance
*Both Occupancy and ARRs exclude 'Cinnamon Red Colombo'.
**Net of green tax and allocation (F&B charge).
2023/24
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Colombo Hotels*
Occupancy
(%)
49
67
57
67
ARR
(USD)
70
69
88
84
EBITDA margin
(%)
(3)
13
16
18
Sri Lankan Resorts
Occupancy
(%)
55
71
66
81
ARR
(USD)
59
62
80
106
EBITDA margin
(%)
(18) 
4
15
35
Maldivian Resorts
Occupancy
(%)
82
82
88
90
ARR**
(USD)
235
212
282
362
EBITDA margin
(%)
23 
17 
31
44
Arrivals ('000)
Tourist Arrivals to Sri Lanka
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
Mar-19
Dec-18
Jul-19
Nov-19
Mar-20
Jul-20
Nov-20
Mar-21
Jul-21
Nov-21
Mar-22
Jul-22
Nov-22
Mar-23
Jul-23
Nov-23
Mar-24
Arrivals ('000)
Tourist Arrivals to the Maldives
Mar-19
Dec-18
Jul-19
Nov-19
Mar-20
Jul-20
Nov-20
Mar-21
Jul-21
Nov-21
Mar-22
Jul-22
Nov-22
Mar-23
Jul-23
Nov-23
Mar-24
0
50
100
150
200
250

INVESTOR RELATIONS
Strategy and Outlook 
Immediate to Short-Term 
	y
The current recovery trend in arrivals 
is expected to continue with growth 
across all major source markets and 
the increase in flight capacity.
	y
Comprehensive yield management 
strategy to ensure optimum returns.
Medium to Long-Term 
	y
The prospects for tourism remain 
extremely positive considering 
the diversity of the offering and 
the potential for higher regional 
tourism, particularly out of India 
considering the growing middle 
class driven by the strong growth of 
its economy.
	y
'City of Dreams Sri Lanka' to be a 
key catalyst for tourism given its 
unique offering as a one-of-a-kind 
destination in South Asia. The 
collaboration with Melco, including 
access to the technical, marketing, 
branding and loyalty programmes, 
expertise and governance 
structures to further drive synergies 
and demand.
	y
Continued focus on asset-light 
investment models as a part of the 
strategy to enhance the 'Cinnamon' 
footprint.
34 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
'City of Dreams Sri Lanka'
	y
The year 2024 marks a significant culmination of events for the Group's iconic integrated 
resort, which has been under construction over the last decade. 
	y
Being the largest and most ambitious private sector investment in the country at an 
investment of over USD 1 billion, the Group announced its partnership with Melco Resorts 
& Entertainment Limited (Melco). 
	y
As part of the collaboration between JKH and Melco, the integrated resort, which had 
previously been branded as 'Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort', will be rebranded as 'City of 
Dreams Sri Lanka'. 'City of Dreams' is the flagship integrated resort brand of Melco. 
'Cinnamon Life Colombo'
Nuwa - ultra high-end luxury-standard hotel
687 guest rooms
113 guest rooms
6 restaurants
Exhibition hall 
Managed by 
Cinnamon Hotel 
Management Limited
Managed by Melco 
5 bars
Conference hall
Situated on the top five 
floors of the hotel
3 pool bars
4 wellness and 
fitness centres
Range of ballrooms and 
banquet facilities including an 
exhibition centre, that, together, 
can accommodate MICE events 
of up to 5,000 seats
2 pools
3 ballrooms
7 meeting rooms
Dedicated access 
to casino 
39-storey tower
196 apartment 
units
30-storey tower
5 floors reserved 
for car park
24 floors allocated 
for outright sales 
and rent
45-storey tower
231 apartment 
units
•	 ~180,000 sq. ft leased out
•	 ~149,000 sq. ft of rentable 
space 
2 lounges
1 pool
~500,000 sq. ft shopping 
and entertainment facility
gaming space 
retail mall
Car Park
Gaming and 
retail space
'The Suites at 
Cinnamon Life'
'The Offices at 
Cinnamon Life'
Hotel 
'The Residence at 
Cinnamon Life'
The Salient features of the collaboration between JKH and Melco are:
	y
Melco Resorts & Entertainment Limited ('Melco') will be the operator of the gaming facility. 
	y
Melco will invest ~USD 125 million in the fit-out and equipping of the gaming space. 
	y
As part of the collaboration between JKH and Melco, the 'Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort' 
will be rebranded as 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka'.
	y
The structure of the gaming operations:
•	 Melco to invest in the fit-out of the casino and lease ~180,000 sq. ft. Melco is also the 100% 
shareholder of the gaming space.
•	 JKH will function in the capacity of owner and landlord.
•	 The 113-key exclusive hotel will be operated by Melco under its 'Nuwa' ultra high-end 
luxury brand.
Phase 1 in Q3 2024/25
Phase 2 in mid-2025
Opening of 'Cinnamon Life' hotel, restaurants 
and banquet facilities
Opening of 'Nuwa', gaming space and retail mall
INDUSTRY GROUP HIGHLIGHTS

35
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Structure of 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka':
John Keells Holdings PLC
Waterfront Properties (Private) Limited 
'City of Dreams Sri Lanka'
Melco
	y
Hotel (800-rooms)
•	 'Cinnamon Life': 687 rooms
•	 'Nuwa': 113 ultra high-end luxury rooms
•	 Banqueting and F&B facilities
	y
Conference
	y
Retail Mall
	y
Two residential towers
	y
Office complex
	y
Gaming space
•	 Investment of ~USD 125 
million to fit-out space.
•	 Holder of casino license 
(valid for 20 years).
•	 Operator of the gaming are.
Fixed rental and variable rental linked to EBITDA
Management fee paid to Melco
•	 Operator of the ultra  
high-end luxury hotel
Asset owner
Asset owner 
and landlord
Provides hotel management services
Provides ~180,000 sq.ft. for casino operations
~99% effective stake
City of Dreams Sri Lanka
•	 Resorts World Sentosa (2010)
•	 Marina Bay Sands (2010) Singapore
•	 City of Dreams Macau (2009)
•	 Studio City (2015)
•	 Altira Macau (2007)
•	 Venetian Macau Casino (2007)
•	 The Parisian Macau (2016) Macau
•	 Grand Ho Tram (2013)
•	 Hoiana Resort and Gulf (2020) Vietnam
•	 City of Dreams Manila (2015)
•	 Solaire Resort and Casino (2013) The Philippines
•	 Naga World Integrated Resort (2003) 
Cambodia
•	 Resort World Genting Malaysia (1971) 
Malaysia
Note: The IRs depicted in the above map represent a selection and is not exhaustive.
Sources: Las Vegas Sands Corp, Sentosa, Genting Highlands, NagaCorp, BloomBerry Resorts Corporation, Forbes, Hoiana, Melco Resorts and Sands China websites.
The positive impact on tourism and the economy will be significant, as seen with the impact other integrated resorts in the region have created – even 
in more advanced tourism markets such as Singapore.
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
Singapore
Singapore
(Millions)
(Millions)
Opening of 2 IRs in 2010
Opening of 2 IRs in 2010
CY99
CY01
CY03
CY05
CY07
CY09
CY11
CY13
CY15
CY17
CY19
CY21
CY23
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
Vietnam
Vietnam
(Millions)
(Millions)
Grand-Ho Tram
Grand-Ho Tram
CY99
CY01
CY03
CY05
CY07
CY09
CY11
CY13
CY15
CY17
CY19
CY21
CY23
CY99
CY01
CY03
CY05
CY07
CY09
CY11
CY13
CY15
CY17
CY19
CY21
CY23
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
Macau
Macau
(Millions)
(Millions)
Liberalisation of gambling in 2022
Liberalisation of gambling in 2022
City of Dreams
City of Dreams
The Parisian Macao
The Parisian Macao
Altira  Macau 
Venetian Macau 
Altira  Macau 
Venetian Macau 
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
Sri Lanka
Sri Lanka
(Millions)
(Millions)
CY99
CY01
CY03
CY05
CY07
CY09
CY11
CY13
CY15
CY17
CY19
CY21
CY23
Integrated resorts are a key driver of tourism*
Source: Department of Statistics 
Singapore.
* The graphs illustrated show some of the key IRs in these jurisdictions and is not an exhaustive list.
Source: Government of Macao Special 
Administrative Region - Statistics and 
Census Service.
Source: World Bank.
Source: Sri Lanka Tourism 
Development Authority.
First fully fledged Integrated Resort (IR) in South Asia:
	y
The strong economic growth in India and the resultant increase in outbound travel from India, is a significant opportunity for Sri Lanka, similar 
to what China witnessed about two decades ago,

36 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
INDUSTRY GROUP HIGHLIGHTS
INVESTOR RELATIONS
PROPERTY
Industry Potential
	y
An urban population of 17%, far below regional peers. 
	y
Emerging suburban multi-family housing market. 
	y
Increasing demand for mid-tier housing units within the city. 
	y
Port City Colombo project, positioning Sri Lanka as a regional 
financial and trade hub. 
	y
Increased demand for commercial space.  
Our Business 
	y
Projects developed under the 'Luxe Spaces', 'Metropolitan Spaces', 
'Suburban Spaces' and 'Leisure linked developments' verticals which cater 
to the luxury, mid-tier and suburban multi-family housing segments. 
	y
The development and sale of two residential apartment towers; 'The 
Suites at Cinnamon Life' and 'The Residence at Cinnamon Life'.
	y
The development and sale/rental of units of the office tower, 'The 
Offices at Cinnamon Life'.
	y
'TRI-ZEN', a residential apartment development based on smart living 
in the heart of the city.
	y
'VIMAN', a suburban residential apartment development located in 
the heart of Ja-Ela.
	y
Ownership and operation of the 'Crescat Boulevard' mall and 
management of the 'K-Zone' mall in Moratuwa. 
	y
Land bank: 
•	 Prime land bank of over 34 acres in central Colombo. 
•	 Developable freehold land of ~25 acres in close proximity to 
Colombo city. 
•	 Over 500-acres of scenic leased land with an 18-hole golf course 
and a developable land extent of ~80 acres. 
Units Sold
Units Unsold
'The Residence at
Cinnamon Life'
'The Residence at
Cinnamon Life'
64%
64%
'The Suites at
Cinnamon Life'
'The Suites at
Cinnamon Life'
56%
56%
‘TRI-ZEN’
‘TRI-ZEN’
79%
79%
‘VIMAN’
‘VIMAN’
24%
24%
Mall Occupancy (%)
2023/24
2022/23
2021/22
K-Zone Moratuwa
100
99
99
Crescat Boulevard 
80
73
61*
Cumulative Sales (SPAs)
2023/24
2022/23
2021/22
The Residence 
147
151
152
Suites 
109
115
115
Commercial complex
4
4
4
TRI-ZEN
700
655
652
VIMAN
100
N/A
N/A
*Partial operations as 'Crescat Boulevard' was closed for refurbishments.
Greater
Colombo
Singapore
Thailand
(Central
Bangkok)
Thailand
(Outskirts)
Malaysia
(Central KL)
Malaysia
(Greater KL)
India
(Chennai)
India
(Bangalore)
0
20
40
60
80
100
Apartments
Landed houses
90
10
95
5
80
20
60
40
70
30
50
50
55
45
65
35
(%)
(%)
Apartment Penetration in Sri Lanka in Comparison to Regional Peers
Apartment Penetration in Sri Lanka in Comparison to Regional Peers
Source: Company analysis.
Strategy and Outlook 
Immediate to Short-Term 
	y
Buyer interest and momentum in sales is envisaged to continue given 
the gradually improving macroeconomic environment, including 
declining interest rates, and market adjustments to new price levels in 
the industry, considering the relatively higher replacement costs.  
	y
Continued exploration of investment opportunities in the emerging 
suburban areas of Colombo.
	y
Sales at the 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka' is expected to pick up given the 
completion of project construction, on the back of the limited inventory 
available in the luxury segment and commencement of operations of 
the 'Cinnamon Life' hotel and related facilities in 3Q 2024/25.
Medium to Long-Term 
	y
Prospects for the housing market in Colombo and the suburbs 
continue to be promising on the back of drivers such as the 
expanding middle-class demographic, increased commercial activity 
within Colombo and potential for increased GDP per capita.
	y
Significant growth expected in the market for vertical and middle-
income housing due to high land prices and construction costs of 
single-family houses.
	y
Monetisation of the existing land bank of the industry group, subject to 
market conditions, through systematic development strategies to roll-
out a robust pipeline of developments via the land parcels available.
Key Highlights
	y
The construction of 'TRI-ZEN', an 891-unit residential development 
project, received the required clearances to commence handing 
over of units from April 2024.
	y
Launched the first suburban residential development project, 
'VIMAN', located in the heart of Ja-Ela, a suburban area in close 
proximity to Colombo. The preliminary sales interest for the project 
has been very encouraging, with the first phase of the project 
consisting of a total of 114 units, nearly sold out within six months 
since the launch of the project. The construction of the first phase 
of the project is expected to commence in mid-2024.

37
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
FINANCIAL SERVICES
Industry Potential
Life Insurance Industry 
	y
Shifting demographics creating demand for health, retirement and 
financial protection insurance solutions. 
Banking Industry 
	y
Advances in technology around the integration of Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) and Robotic Process Automation (RPA) in operational, 
customer servicing and administrative tasks in the long-term.
	y
Increasing demand for digital infrastructure. 
	y
Shift towards cashless payments.
Source: Swiss Re sigma No 4 /2022.
0
1
2
3
4
Life insurance premium as a per centage of GDP, in the
South Asian region
Life insurance premium as a per centage of GDP, in the
South Asian region
(%)
(%)
Malaysia
Thailand
India
Vietnam
Indonesia
Philipines
Sri Lanka
Strategy and Outlook 
Immediate to Short-Term 
Life Insurance
	y
Focus on maintaining persistency of existing policies and 
strengthening its position as the third largest new business 
producer in the insurance industry in CY2023.
	y
Strengthening partnerships with leading banks to consolidate its 
status as a leading bancassurance provider.
	y
Expanding the agency channel to broaden market reach, fostering 
deeper connections with customers.
Banking 
	y
Continue to proactively manage its operations to capture market 
opportunities, as demand for credit rises, while effectively 
managing risks.
	y
Focus on building resilience and sustainability by prioritising credit 
quality, margin management, return-focused lending, and financial 
stability.
	y
Continue to leverage on its digital platforms and channels, driven 
by increasing demand for digital infrastructure.
Medium to Long-Term 
Life Insurance
	y
Significantly lower level of insurance penetration in comparison 
to regional peers, an ageing population, and the increasing 
prevalence of non-communicable diseases are expected to aid 
growth in the life insurance industry.
	y
Integration of AI and Robotic Process Automation (RPA) in 
operational, customer servicing and administrative tasks is 
expected to be seen in the long-term.
	y
Focus on diversifying its channels through an omni-channel 
distribution model and optimising bancassurance partnerships. 
Banking
	y
Further augmenting its digital infrastructure and processes to 
ensure better customer service, innovative solutions and efficiency 
in operations.
	y
Continued expansion and positioning of 'FriMi' as a lifestyle 
application and digital bank.
Our Business 
Life Insurance 
	y
Operating footprint of 85 branches, excluding virtual locations. 
	y
Total agency cadre of 2,690. 
	y
Market share of ~12%. 
Banking 
	y
Branch network of 96 outlets, 81 ATMs and 87 CRMs. 
	y
Strong online presence. 
	y
Sri Lanka's first digital bank, 'FriMi'. 
	y
Largest issuer of credit cards in Sri Lanka. 
Key Performance Indicators
CY2023
CY2022
CY2021
Life Insurance 
Premium growth
(%)
13
8
18
Market share
(%)
12
12
12
Life fund
(Rs.billion)
65.0
55.4
48.9
Capital adequacy ratio (%)
291
194
228
Banking
Growth in loans and 
advances 
(%)
12.3
(3)
18
Return on equity
(%)
21
17
18
Net interest margin
(%)
7.7
7.0
3.9
Stage 3 loan ratio 
(%)
2.3
2.6
2.1
Capital adequacy ratio 
– total capital
(%)
19.1
16.3
17.5

38 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
INDUSTRY GROUP HIGHLIGHTS
INVESTOR RELATIONS
OTHER, INCLUDING INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND  
PLANTATION SERVICES
Industry Potential 
Our Business 
Information Technology 
	y Increased digital adoption within the country and growing 
digital literacy. 
	y Investment in futuristic technology infrastructure. 
	y Businesses and operations are increasingly adopting digital 
practices. 
	y Competitive labour force and high-quality services to drive the 
business process management (BPM) industry. 
Information Technology 
	y Software solutions and consultation services based on Internet 
of Things (IOT), Robotic Process Automation (RPA) and other 
digital stack solutions. 
	y Brand presence in Middle East and North Africa (MENA) and Asia 
Pacific (APAC) regions as a leading digital solutions provider. 
	y Strategic partnerships with SAP and Microsoft.
	y BPM service provider with the mandate of driving greater 
efficiencies for their clientele. Core focus areas of finance and 
accounting, payroll management and data digitisation.
Plantation Services 
	y Sustained growth in global tea consumption with growing 
demand for value-added tea. 
	y Anticipated growth in demand from Middle Eastern countries. 
	y Increased focus on existing as well as new markets, whilst 
capitalising on the unique flavour, quality and brand presence of 
'Ceylon Tea'. 
Plantation Services 
	y Leading tea and rubber broker. 
	y Operates five of the seven factories owned. Two factory are 
leased externally.
	y Produces both 'crush, tear, curl' (CTC) and orthodox tea. 
	y Manufacturer of low grown teas. 
	y State-of-the-art warehousing facility for pre-auction produce. 
Strategy and Outlook 
Information Technology
Immediate to Short-Term  
	y
Leverage on its strategic partnerships and capabilities to 
offer smart software solutions, especially in the areas of cloud 
computing, software as a service (SaaS) and automation.
	y
Explore potential opportunities for managed services, 
outsourcing and offshoring.
	y
Digital literacy among the populace is ever-growing, along with 
increased digital adoption, creating ample opportunity for the 
industry to leverage on.
Medium to Long-Term  
	y
Explore opportunities in cloud-based solutions and services 
across industries, with emphasis on cloud, SaaS, automation, 
advanced analytics, application modernisation, cyber resilience 
and platform/ecosystem thinking, among others.
	y
Focus on delivering innovative consultative solutions and services 
across the five value stacks of 'Strategy', 'Core', 'Cloud', 'Platforms' 
and 'Ecosystems'.
	y
The low penetration of BPM services in Sri Lanka and the 
increasing demand for outsourced services, particularly non-core 
functions, is expected to augur well for the industry.
Plantation Services  
Immediate to Short-Term  
	y
Production levels in the country are expected to gradually increase 
to pre-2021/22 numbers in tandem with the improvement in 
fertiliser application.
	y
Market prices are envisaged to remain at current levels, given the 
relatively stabilised macroeconomic environment, although global 
commodity price movements will have a significant impact on 
auction prices.
	y
Geopolitical issues, devaluation of currency in key export markets 
and volatile exchange rates may impact demand as well as lead to 
higher insurance and freight costs for tea exporters.
Medium to Long-Term  
	y
Explore opportunities to capitalise on demand for low-grown 
tea from the Middle East and Russia, and emerging tea-drinking 
countries such as Germany and the United States.
	y
The business will face increased regulations and controls on 
chemical usage in the tea plantation industry to meet maximum 
residue levels (MRLs).
	y
Adverse and increasingly unpredictable weather conditions 
caused by climate change pose a significant challenge.
	y
Continually evaluate new opportunities such as those arising from 
the emerging Chinese market for Ceylon orthodox black tea.

39
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION 
AND ANALYSIS
GROUP CONSOLIDATED REVIEW
41  Operating Environment    48  Our Business Model    51  Financial and Manufactured Capital Review    63  Natural Capital Review 
79  Human Capital Review    89  Social and Relationship Capital Review    103  Intellectual Capital Review    107  Group Outlook and Risks  
119  Group Strategy, Resource Allocation and Portfolio Management    124  Share Information
A  journey in Life

40 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
This Report is prepared in accordance with the Integrated 
Reporting Framework of the International Integrated 
Reporting Council with an aim of providing our 
stakeholders an insightful view of the Group's operations. 
The Group Consolidated Review of the Management 
Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) segment consists of the 
following sections.
Operating Environment
Entails a discussion of key economic, political and regulatory, social, environmental and 
technological variables, which favourably or unfavourably, impacted the Group's ability to create 
value.
Our Business Model
Illustrates the value creation process of the Group, encapsulating the interrelation among the 
inputs, frameworks, and processes, which collectively drive value creation.
Reviews of each Form of Capital (Financial and Manufactured Capital, Natural Capital, 
Human Capital, Social and Relationship Capital and Intellectual Capital)
Discusses the forms of Capital available for deployment and how such Capital created value to 
stakeholders, at a Group level. It also reviews the performance of each form of Capital and the 
value enhancement/deterioration during the year under review. The discussion on each form of 
Capital comprises of two parts, as applicable: 
	y
An analysis of value creation/deterioration under the Capital during the year under review 
	y
Management approach in each form of Capital
Group Outlook and Risks
Entails a discussion of the Group's approach to navigating through the socio-economic and  
socio-political landscape, as well as the way forward for the Group. The discussion comprises of 
three parts:
	y
Macroeconomic Outlook, from both a global and local perspective and the implications on the 
Group
	y
Group Outlook, which discusses the key focus areas of the Group going forward
	y
Key Risks to the Group outlook based on the risks identified as a part of the Group's Enterprise 
Risk Management framework and its approach to managing such risks optimally
Strategy, Resource Allocation and Portfolio Management
Analyses the performance of the overall portfolio, the overall strategy and means by which each 
form of Capital is allocated for investments. The performance of the Group is also measured 
against the long-term strategic financial objectives of the Group.
Share Information
Entails a high-level discussion on the performance of financial markets, both globally and locally, 
followed by a detailed discussion of the JKH share performance. Key disclosures pertaining to 
shareholders of JKH, as required by relevant regulators, is also included in this section. 

41
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
OPERATING ENVIRONMENT
This section covers the external landscape within which the Group operates from 
an economic, political and regulatory, environmental and social, and technological 
standpoint, and the resultant impacts on the Group during the year.
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT
Global growth remained resilient at 3.2% in CY2023, despite the decline 
in global inflation from its peak in mid-2022 which is usually reflective 
of sluggish demand and hawkish monetary policies in most parts of the 
world which are contractionary in nature. The International Monetary 
Fund (IMF) estimates that employment and income growth remained 
steady during CY2023, driven by expansionary fiscal policy and higher-
than-envisaged household consumption on the demand side, and 
an unexpected increase in labour force participation from a supply 
perspective. The easing of pandemic-era supply chain constraints also 
aided growth. 
(10)
(5)
0
5
10
CY2022 vs. CY2023 Economic Growth
CY2022 vs. CY2023 Economic Growth
(%)
(%)
CY22
CY23
Global
Economy
Emerging and
Developing Asia
Emerging Markets
& Developing
Economies
Advanced
Economies
Sri Lanka
3.5
3.2
2.6
1.6
4.1
4.3
4.5
(7.3)
(2.3)
5.6
Source: World Economic Outlook April 2024, International Monetary Fund.
LOCAL OPERATING ENVIRONMENT
Economic Landscape
The Sri Lankan economy recorded a gradual recovery during the latter 
part of CY2023, marking the end of a prolonged period of economic 
contraction spanning six consecutive quarters. Growth was primarily driven 
by multiple much-needed policy adjustments and structural reforms 
implemented by the Government and the Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL) 
since end-2022. Inflation significantly decelerated to single digits by the 
end of the calendar year, on the back of various policy actions aimed 
at controlling inflation levels, from the peak levels of 70% witnessed in 
CY2022. Considering the relatively stable inflation indicators, and in order 
to support the rebound of domestic economic activity, the CBSL reduced 
the Standing Deposit Facility Rate (SDFR) and the Standing Lending Facility 
Rate (SLFR) by 550 basis points each, respectively, in CY2023. The persistent 
twin deficits in the Government's overall budget and the external current 
account, which contributed to the economic downturn, among many 
other contributory factors, exhibited signs of significant improvement in 
CY2023. Both the Government's primary balance and the external current 
account recorded a surplus in CY2023. There was also a sustained and 
strong build-up of the external reserves position of the country to USD 4.4 
billion by end CY2023 [CY2022: USD 1.9 billion]. 
The country witnessed a notable increase in foreign exchange inflows 
primarily driven by tourism and other services exports, particularly 
remittances from overseas workers. This recovery in foreign exchange 
inflows coupled with lacklustre import demand, including import 
restrictions during most parts of the year, and a cessation of foreign currency 
debt service obligations helped alleviate the severe foreign exchange 
shortage experienced during the economic crisis. Bolstered by such 
developments and aided by improved market confidence, the Sri Lankan 
Rupee also strengthened significantly by ~11% on average during 2023/24. 
IMF and the Extended Fund Facility (EFF) Arrangement
The IMF's USD 3 billion EFF support programme over 48 months 
stands as a critical pillar within the Sri Lankan economic landscape, 
exerting substantial influence on restoring macroeconomic 
stability and stepping up structural and governance reforms to 
unlock Sri Lanka's growth potential. Commencing with the staff-
level agreement reached in September 2022, the Government has 
progressed steadily in meeting the financial conditions stipulated 
under the IMF programme while also addressing the reform driven 
agenda and the external debt restructuring requirements.
The IMF-EFF programme is a comprehensive economic reform 
programme which is based on certain key aspects: 
	y
Revenue based fiscal consolidation.
	y
Stronger social safety net.
	y
Sovereign debt restructuring aiming public debt sustainability.
	y
Strategy to restore price stability and rebuild international 
reserves under greater exchange rate flexibility.
	y
Policies to safeguard financial stability.
	y
Reforms to address corruption and governance, including 
reform of state owned enterprises (SOEs).
At the end of the second review in March 2024, Sri Lanka had 
made encouraging progress: 
	y
Gross official reserves stood at USD 5 billion by March 2024, 
from USD 1.9 billion in end-2022.
	y
Achieved a primary surplus in CY2023 - beyond the target set 
by the IMF. 
	y
Overall budget deficit in CY2023 improved due to the increase 
in revenue.
	y
Domestic debt optimisation was concluded in September 
2023, as noted below. 
	y
Encouraging discussions and progress with key partners 
regarding the restructuring of external debt.
	y
Final stages of formulating an action plan to address 
governance and corruptions concerns.
September 
2022
October 
2023
March 
2024
March 
2023
December 
2023
Staff level 
agreement 
with the IMF
Staff level 
agreement on 
first review
Staff level 
agreement on 
second review
Receipt of first 
tranche
Receipt of 
second tranche

42 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
Impact/Response
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
(Index)
Mar-23
Apr-23
May-23
Jun-23
Jul-23
Aug-23
Sep-23
Oct-23
Nov-23
Dec-23
Jan-24
Feb-24
Mar-24
Index of Consumer Sentiments (ICS)
Index of Currency Conditions (ICC)
Index of Consumer Expectations (ICE)
Approval of the IMF 
funding agreement 
in March 2023 had 
a positive effect 
on consumer 
confidence.
Maintained a 
relatively stable 
trajectory, with 
minor fluctuations.
Recovery in public 
expectations of the 
country's situation 
and improvement in 
buying conditions.
(15)
(12)
(9)
(6)
(3)
0
3
6
2022 Q1
2022 Q2
2022 Q3
2022 Q4
2023 Q1
2023 Q2
2023 Q3
2023 Q4
(0.6)
(5.3)
(11.2)
(12.4)
(10.7)
(3)
1.6
4.5
(Rs.billion)
(7.3%)
(2.3%)
Annual
Annual
2022
2023
Agriculture (4.2%)
Agriculture 2.6%
Industry (16.0%)
Industry (9.2%)
Services (2.6%)
Services (0.2%)
Debt Restructuring
As part of the IMF-EFF programme, Sri Lanka is required 
to undertake debt restructuring efforts to safeguard the 
country's debt sustainability. 
In July 2023, the Government commenced the 
Domestic Debt Optimisation (DDO) initiative, marking 
a significant step towards resolving uncertainties 
around the impact of the domestic debt restructuring, 
particularly on financial system stability. The DDO 
covered Treasury Bills, Treasury Bonds, and Sri Lanka 
Development Bonds and entailed: 
	y
Re-profiling of the maturity schedule and coupon 
payments of local currency Treasury bonds held by 
superannuation funds while converting the Treasury 
bill portfolio held only by the CBSL into long-term 
Treasury bonds. 
	y
Both the banking and insurance sector holdings of 
bonds were excluded from the DDO on the basis 
of ensuring financial stability and minimising the 
impacts on deposit holders and domestic retail 
savings, also taking into consideration the impact 
already borne by such stakeholders due to inflation. 
	y
The clarity on the DDO contributed to an 
improvement in the risk premia attached to the local 
economy, aiding increased fund flows and lower 
cost of funds. 
	y
S&P Global raised Sri Lanka's local currency rating 
to CCC+/C from SD (selective default), post the 
completion of the DDO with a stable outlook.
In relation to external debt, authorities and the Official 
Creditors Committee (representing India, Japan, France 
and the Paris Club) reached an agreement, in principle, 
while a preliminary agreement was also reached with 
the EXIM Bank of China. Presently, discussions with 
private creditors are ongoing.
Economic Activity
Consumer Confidence
Source: Central Bank of Sri Lanka
The Sri Lankan economy, based on GDP at constant (2015) market prices, contracted by 2.3% 
in CY2023 compared to the 7.3% contraction in CY2022.
Consumer confidence recorded an improvement from January 2024 
onwards…
Steady rebound in real GDP growth…
Source: Institute for Health Policy
The consumer confidence indices of the Institute for Health Policy noted 
improvements during the year, although all remain at pessimistic levels. The 
indices range from zero to a potential maximum 100, with levels below 50 
indicating net pessimism. 
The Group recorded strong growth in cash profits across most businesses in 
tandem with the steady normalisation of the country's operating environment 
across the quarters. 
Although disposable income was negatively impacted from direct and indirect 
taxes, and an increase in power and energy costs during a majority of the year, 
an improvement in overall spending was evident across the quarters, aiding 
business performance. 
Consumer confidence remained subdued during most parts of the year, with an 
uptick from January 2024 onwards in line with the expansion in economic activity. 
The uptick in overall economic activity and consumer confidence was reflected 
in the recovery of volumes and sales values towards the latter end of the year, 
across the consumer-facing businesses of the Group. 
OPERATING ENVIRONMENT

43
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Impact/Response
Impact/Response
Inflation
Exchange Rates
Inflation registered a rapid disinflation process…
Aided by:
	y
Gradual absorption of the effects of the previously contractionary 
monetary policies. 
	y
Stable exchange rates.
	y
Improved domestic supply conditions on the back of a 
moderation of global prices.
However, electricity tariffs which recorded net increases during 
the year, resulting from the adoption of a cost-based pricing 
mechanism, also shaped inflation. 
The Sri Lankan Rupee noted an appreciation…
Primarily attributed to increased market liquidity predominately 
emanating from:
	y
Favourable market sentiments stemming from the approval of 
the IMF funding arrangement.
	y
Increased foreign currency disbursements from multilateral 
institutions. 
	y
Robust tourism revenue and steady inflows from workers' 
remittances throughout the year.
The average LKR/USD exchange rate in 2023/24, based on the mid exchange rates 
published by the CBSL, stood at Rs.318.00 in contrast to Rs.358.17 in 2022/23.
Source: Central Bank of Sri Lanka
Global inflation noted a slowdown…
Source: Central Bank of Sri Lanka
Year-on-year headline inflation, based on the National Consumer Price 
Index (NCPI), was 2.5% in March 2024 compared to 33.6% in April 2023.
Headline Inflation
Largely driven by central banks 
worldwide implementing 
contractionary policy measures.
Emerging and Developing Economies
Advanced Economies
(%)
World
0
2
4
6
8
10
CY19
CY20
CY21
CY22
CY23
Source: World Economic Outlook April 2024, International Monetary Fund.
Global inflation declined to 6.8% in CY2023 [CY2022: 8.7%].
Businesses experienced greater stability in pricing dynamics, 
enabling businesses to maintain more predictable pricing strategies. 
The Group witnessed a normalisation in input costs which aided 
better cost management contributing to margin improvements 
across most Group businesses. 
On the demand side, a reduction in inflationary pressures had a positive 
impact on the purchasing power of consumers, benefiting the Group's 
Consumer Foods industry group and Supermarket business. Purchasing 
power primarily benefited through a reduction in the prices of food and 
transport, which were two of the largest contributors to high inflation in 
the past, which noted deflation in several months. 
The appreciation of the LKR also contributed to lower costs of 
imported raw material and goods, which had a positive impact on 
the cost base of the Group. 
The appreciation of LKR had a negative impact on businesses which 
have dollar-denominated revenue streams, particularly in the Leisure 
and Transportation industry groups. The operational performance 
of such businesses is somewhat moderated in evaluating the 
performance in LKR terms due to these impacts. 
The Holding Company has foreign currency cash holdings 
earmarked for equity infusions to the 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka' 
(previously referred to as 'Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort') project 
and funds raised for the Group's investment pipeline via various 
corporate actions in the past three years. As a result, the Holding 
Company recorded foreign exchange losses on its net USD cash 
holdings. 
At a Group level, the appreciation of the LKR resulted in a translation 
impact on the Group's foreign currency denominated liabilities 
and related payments, including the USD 175 million loan from the 
International Finance Corporation (IFC) and the USD 219 million 
loan at Waterfront Properties (Private) Limited, notwithstanding the 
partial hedge against foreign currency denominated assets.
Buy Rate
(LKR/USD)
Sell Rate
Middle Rate
250
275
300
325
350
Apr 23
May 23
Jun 23
Jul 23
Aug 23
Sep 23
Oct 23
Nov 23
Dec 23
Jan 24
Feb 24
Mar 24
Apr 24
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
Sep 22
Oct 22
Nov 22
Dec 22
Jan 23
Feb 23
Mar 23
Apr 23
May 23
Jun 23
Jul 23
Aug 23
Sep 23
Oct 23
Nov 23
Dec 23
Jan 24
Feb 24
Mar 24
Apr 24
Target:
5%
Inﬂation returned
to single digit level
Colombo Consumer Price Index (CCPI) based Inﬂation
Colombo Consumer Price Index (CCPI) based Inﬂation
(YoY %)
(YoY %)

44 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
Impact/Response
Impact/Response
OPERATING ENVIRONMENT
Domestic Interest Rates
Global Interest Rates
Notable decline in market interest rates…
Driven by: 
	y
An accommodative monetary policy
	y
A decrease in risk premiums resulting from domestic debt 
optimisation.
Global interest rates noted an upward trajectory…
Finance expenses of the Group, excluding the Holding Company, 
also noted a contraction primarily driven by the decline in market 
interest rates. The increase in LKR finance expenses of the Holding 
Company was driven by an increase in the borrowing base in line 
with the Group's funding strategy, which offset the impact of lower 
interest rates which prevailed during the year under review. 
The Group (excluding the Insurance business) recorded a decrease 
in finance income owing to lower domestic interest rates. 
From a consumer demand perspective, the marked reduction in 
interest rates also resulted in a shift of funds from debt to alternative 
investments such as real estate and equity. This was evident in the 
Property industry group, where the business noted an increase 
in apartment sales excluding the luxury segment. This shift also 
aided certain businesses in managing risks, such as in the Insurance 
business, where the investment portfolio benefited from higher 
rates in the early parts of the year, whilst thereafter, the equity 
portfolio noted an encouraging performance in line with the 
recovery in equity markets aided by the gradual reduction in rates.
In respect of the Group's foreign currency borrowings portfolio, 
interest rate swap agreements are in place for a sizeable portion 
of the facilities in order to mitigate the Group's exposure to rate 
fluctuations. 
The Group noted a reduction in the Group's USD cash holding 
which impacted the interest income of the Group, despite higher 
interest rates. 
Note: The increase in global interest rates had a negative impact 
on foreign currency linked interest in USD terms. However, the 
translation impact stemming from the appreciation of the LKR, offset 
this impact contributing to a decrease in foreign currency linked 
interest in LKR terms. 
Source: Central Bank of Sri Lanka
The Average Weighted Prime Lending Rate (AWPLR) decreased from 21.80% in 
April 2023 to 11.11% in March 2024.
The 3-month Treasury bill rate was 10.07% in March 2024 compared to 25.99% in 
March 2023.
Source: Federal Reserve Bank of New York
Throughout 2023/24, the US Federal Reserve (FED) continued its 
tightening interest rate policy to address inflationary pressures. 
Although rates increased at the outset of the year, rates stabilised 
from mid-year onwards, as inflation rates moderated. Nonetheless, 
the US has yet to commence an easing cycle, although common 
consensus is for rates to start easing from mid-2024 onwards.
90-day average Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR)
(%)
3.5
4.0
4.5
5.0
5.5
Apr 23
May 23
Jun 23
Jul 23
Aug 23
Sep 23
Oct 23
Nov 23
Dec 23
Jan 24
Feb 24
Mar 24
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
Prime Rate
(Monthly AWPR)
Lending Rate
(AWLR)
New Lending Rate
(AWNLR)
Deposit Rate
(AWDR)
New Deposit Rate
(AWNDR)
91-day T-bill Yield
(%)
(%)
11.1
12.4
28.2
14.2
18.7
14.4
26.2
11.6
14.1
11.1
23.1
14.5
32.6
End CY22
End CY23
March/
February
2024
13.7
13.4
10.3
9.5
10.1

45
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Political and Regulatory Landscape
Developments during the year
Impact/Response
Political and Economic Stability
	y
The political and macroeconomic landscape of the country 
stabilised significantly compared to the previous year, creating 
a conducive environment for business. A Presidential election is 
constitutionally due between September and October 2024 while 
Parliamentary elections are due in CY2025.
The more stabilised governance landscape and predictable economic conditions 
has eased the Group's decision-making processes, providing the confidence 
needed to explore new ventures and opportunities. The Group has placed focus 
on actively pursuing investment opportunities, initiating strategic investments, 
and engaging with external stakeholders with a sense of assurance. The improved 
environment has also driven growth, particularly in sectors such as tourism.
The relatively stable environment aided the Group in securing major 
investments, such as its partnership with Melco Resorts and Entertainment 
to operate the casino at 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka' (previously referred to as 
the 'Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort') and helped in exploring new ventures 
with strategic partners, such as the partnership with BYD Auto Industry 
Company Limited, the world's leading manufacturer of new energy vehicles 
(NEVs), Reliance Consumer Products Limited (RCPL), to manufacture, market, 
distribute, and sell 'Elephant House' beverages in India, and Millennium 
Imports Limited, to launch 'Elephant House' sausages in the Australian market.
Geopolitical Conflicts
	y
The Israel-Palestine conflict emerged as the predominant geopolitical 
concern of the year, causing widespread socio-economic disruptions 
worldwide. This also contributed to disruptions to global shipping, 
especially in the Red Sea, amplifying the conflict's impact on 
international trade and stability.
The rerouting of ships has resulted in an increase in shipping and logistics 
cost and delivery times, particularly towards the latter end of the year, which 
impacted businesses that import raw materials and goods, and export-oriented 
businesses. However, this created various opportunities which benefited the 
Transportation industry group given increased shipping traffic in the region. 
Tax Regime
	y
The value added tax (VAT) rate was increased from 15% to 18%, 
with effect from 1 January 2024, together with a withdrawal of a 
multitude of VAT exemptions. Only select essential categories of 
goods and services continue to be exempt from VAT.
The increase in VAT and the elimination of VAT exemptions resulted in an 
increase in prices of non-discretionary items. This contributed to an erosion of 
purchasing power, adversely affecting the Group's consumer-facing businesses.
New Laws Enacted
	y
The Central Bank of Sri Lanka Act No.16 of 2023 (CBA) was enacted 
in September 2023, in furtherance of the CBSL's mandate of 
achieving and maintaining domestic price and financial stability.
	y
Most capital flow management and exchange restrictions 
introduced during the foreign exchange crisis from mid-2022 
onwards, were gradually relaxed.
	y
Import restrictions were gradually eased out, apart from restrictions 
on vehicle imports. 
	y
A new Electricity Bill was gazetted in April 2024, which paved way 
for the liberalisation and distribution of power. 
	y
The Anti-Corruption Act No.9 of 2023 was implemented during 
the year under review. This act aims to enhance transparency in 
governance and public confidence.
	y
The Casino Business Licensing Regulation No. 1 of 2022, which 
formalise the process of issuing licences and monitoring casino 
operations in Sri Lanka, was further expanded to provide more 
clarity on the regulations alongside an expansion in scope which 
provided the much-required framework for international players to 
enter the domestic gaming market. 
The recent enactment of new laws has brought about significant changes to 
the regulatory framework, impacting businesses within the Group. These laws 
aim to enhance transparency, accountability, stability and sustainability. 
While these changes may present initial challenges in adaptation, they also 
offer opportunities for businesses to strengthen their operational resilience, 
mitigate risks, and align with evolving societal expectations. For select 
businesses, these also aid in identifying potential business opportunities. 
The implementation of these new laws underscores the importance 
of proactive engagement with regulatory authorities and continuous 
monitoring of compliance obligations. Group businesses proactively work 
towards compliance, in order to ensure adherence with all applicable laws 
and regulations. Such enactments, if done following rigorous analysis and 
stakeholder engagements, aid businesses emerge stronger, more agile, and 
better positioned to thrive in an increasingly complex global marketplace.
Privatisation of State Owned Enterprises (SOEs) and related reforms
	y
The Government called for requests for qualifications (RFQ) from 
potential investors for the divestiture of selected SOEs. The Government 
envisages to conclude all SOE transactions within CY2024.
The Group will pursue opportunities which align with the overall strategy of 
the Group and its industry verticals.

46 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
OPERATING ENVIRONMENT
Environmental and Social Aspects
Behaviour
Impact/Response
Increased Focus on Environment, Social and Governance (ESG) Aspects
	y
The International Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB) made notable 
headway on finalising global frameworks for ESG and climate 
reporting, with the aim of standardising ESG reporting.
	y
Governments worldwide implemented stricter ESG regulations, such 
as the Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD) issued by 
the European Union (EU). This forces a deeper focus on ESG practices.
	y
While overall demand for ESG investments dipped, there was a 
growing emphasis on transparency and impact investing, focusing 
on measurable positive social and environmental outcomes. As per 
the Association of Investment Companies' annual ESG Attitudes 
Tracker, just over half (53%) of investors considered ESG factors 
in CY2023, down from 60% and 65% in CY2022 and CY2021, 
respectively. 
In 2022/23, as a part of the Group's ongoing efforts towards increasing 
emphasis on ESG aspects, the Group embarked on re-formulating 
its ESG framework in collaboration with an international third-party 
consulting firm, setting revised Group-wide ESG ambitions and 
translating such ambitions to ESG-related targets. During the year under 
review, an in-depth study was conducted within each industry group 
to identify material ESG topics through a formalised and more refined 
process. Similar to previous materiality assessments, benchmarking 
studies as well as stakeholder engagement sessions were held across 
sectors to gather insights.. A series of ambition-setting workshops were 
convened to define both Group-level and sector-specific ESG ambitions, 
to ensure alignment between the overarching Group goals and the 
specific objectives of each sector.
Non-Discrimination and Equal Opportunity
	y
Growing awareness on gender equality and LGBTIQ+ rights is 
transforming workplaces globally, promoting inclusivity and creating 
an atmosphere of acceptance and respect for all stakeholders.
	y
Regulatory pressure and investor demands were evident requiring 
companies to prioritise diversity on boards of directors, including 
gender, race, and ethnicity, such as the requirements of the newly 
enacted amendments to Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock 
Exchange.
The Group remained steadfast in its commitment to DE&I initiatives, 
actively championing inclusivity and diversity across its workforce and 
value chains, under the ONE JKH brand. A multitude of activities were 
implemented both at a Group level and by individual businesses. 
Poverty Levels
	y
The World Bank estimates that poverty rates continued to rise for the 
fourth year in a row, with an estimated 25.9% of Sri Lankans living 
below the poverty line in CY2023.
	y
A survey by LirneAsia, a regional policy research organisation, 
notes that Sri Lanka's poor population surged to 31% in CY2023, an 
increase of 4 million people since CY2019. 
	y
A joint assessment conducted by the Food and Agriculture 
Organisation (FAO) and the World Food Programme (WFP) in May 
2023 indicated that 3.9 million people in Sri Lanka were experiencing 
moderate food insecurity, while over 10,000 households faced even 
more severe conditions. The assessment estimated that more than 
2.9 million children require urgent support in accessing essential 
services like nutrition, healthcare, education, water and sanitation, 
protection, and social safety nets.
In addition to the various initiatives rolled-out to aid Group employees, 
business partners and suppliers, the corporate social responsibility 
(CSR) arm of the Group implemented various interventions, planned 
and reviewed in the context of national priorities, towards addressing 
key universal development needs, focusing on the three dimensions 
of sustainable development - economic growth, social inclusion and 
environmental protection.
Some key initiatives of the Group included: 
	y
The school meal programme which continued to support children, 
enhancing their nutrition, attendance, and learning engagement.
	y
Food redistribution and farmer food waste reduction projects of the 
Supermarket business. 
	y
The 'John Keells Praja Shakthi' programme aimed at skills 
development, capacity enhancement and creating sustainable 
livelihoods and income, amongst others.
	y
Scholarship programmes to provide students better education and 
career prospects.

47
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Technological Environment
Behaviour
Impact/Response
Growing Use of Big Data and Increased Technology Adoption
	y
The global big data market reached ~USD 308 billion in CY2023 as per DemandSage, 
showcasing significant growth compared to previous years. The abundance of data, 
particularly from technologies such as social media and artificial intelligence (AI), 
has elevated the significance of big data analytics. Big data analytics is instrumental 
in enhancing decision-making processes and delivering personalised customer 
experiences.
Octave, the Data and Advanced Analytics Centre 
of Excellence of the Group, in liaison with Group 
businesses continued to develop and roll-out use cases 
to capitalise on data analytics.
Increased adoption of automation solutions and 
digitisation initiatives.
Cyber Risks, Data Protection and Internal Controls
	y
CY2023 witnessed a 72% increase in data breaches since CY2021, which held the 
previous all-time record for the most number of cybersecurity concerns. As per an article 
published on Forbes, this amounted to 2,365 cyber attacks in CY2023 with 343 million 
victims. The average cost of a data breach is estimated at ~USD 4.45 million. 
Statistics based on cyber security
20,033
58
9 
20 
10 
37 
44
98
Social Media 
Incidents
Financial /Email 
Frauds
Incidents reported to SL CERT/CC
Phone 
Hacking
Phishing
Malicious 
Software Issues
Website 
Compromise
DoS/DDoS*
Scams
31
10
Ransomware
Server 
Compromised
*Denial-of-service/ Distributed denial-of-service
Source: National Centre for Cyber Security
	y
A recent study by Sprinto estimates that ~68% of occupational fraud stemmed 
from issues associated with internal control deficiencies. These issues encompassed 
a variety of factors, including inadequate internal controls, instances of bypassing 
established controls, or inadequate oversight from senior management. 
The Group continued to monitor the effectiveness of its 
information technology (IT) governance system in place 
to address any risks and capitalise on any opportunities. 
The Group engaged with a leading international 
consultancy firm to conduct a comprehensive 
assessment of the Group's cybersecurity resilience, by 
aligning with industry best practice and recommended 
technological principles. 
The Group also established the Data Governance Steering 
Committee, which aims to strengthen data governance 
practices in compliance with relevant laws, notably the 
Personal Data Protection Act No. 9 of 2022. Initiatives 
included benchmarking, data lifecycle management, 
appointment of data protection officers for each industry 
group, gap analysis and awareness creation.
An 'Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR)' was 
implemented alongside the Group-wide roll-out of the 
SMART Office mobile application in order to improve 
the Group's cybersecurity and digitisation efforts. 
Research and Development (R&D)
0
20
40
60
80
100
Top Management Priorities for R&D Leaders in 2023
Top Management Priorities for R&D Leaders in 2023
(%)
(%)
Attracting and retaining critical
technical talent
Understanding critical
customer needs
Reducing product development
cycle times
Optimising R&D
project resourcing
Balancing investment between long-term
and short-term opportunities
Selecting technologies for
investment for long-term growth
Accelerating speed to maturity for
technologies in the R&D portfolio
Attracting and retaining critical
technical talent
Understanding critical
customer needs
Reducing product development
cycle times
Optimising R&D
project resourcing
Balancing investment between long-term
and short-term opportunities
Selecting technologies for
investment for long-term growth
Accelerating speed to maturity for
technologies in the R&D portfolio
% of R&D leaders saying it is critical to solve this challenge for the overall
performance of the department
% of who are conﬁdent in their R&D organisation's ability to solve challenges
in the next 12-18 months
Source: Gartner
The current trend in R&D is leaning towards prioritising the development of sustainable 
materials and cleaner technologies, while also embracing the incorporation of AI and 
robotics into various business operations.
The Group's R&D arm, John Keells Research, actively 
pursued the discovery of innovative and efficient 
business solutions.
Octave and the businesses across the Group are 
exploring the impacts and opportunities of AI in its 
business strategies to enhance productivity, and 
more importantly, improve customer centricity and 
competitiveness.

48 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
OUR BUSINESS MODEL
INPUTS
VALUE CREATION ACTIVITIES
FINANCIAL AND  
MANUFACTURED 
CAPITAL
	y Shareholder funds: Rs.358 
billion
	y Net Debt: Rs.127 billion
	y Land bank 
	y Machinery, plant and 
equipment
	y Effective and responsible investments of 
shareholder funds
	y Business development activities
	y Cost reduction initiatives
NATURAL 
CAPITAL
	y Energy
	y Water
	y Waste
	y Biodiversity
	y Extended Product 
Responsibility
	y Other natural resources
	y Development of ambitions and goals
	y Identification and implementation of 
continuous improvement initiatives and 
strategic initiatives to manage impacts 
of operations.
	y Quarterly monitoring and reporting of 
environmental parameters
	y Implementation of strategic initiatives 
HUMAN 
CAPITAL
	y Total Employees: 15,314
	y Employee diversity, 
equity, and inclusion 
(DE&I)
	y Skills and competencies
	y Health and safety 
initiatives
	y Leveraging on employee skills and 
expertise for business growth
	y Training and development of employee 
cadre
	y Performance management and 
appraisals
	y Employee survey initiatives
	y Structured career development 
programmes
SOCIAL AND 
RELATIONSHIP 
CAPITAL
	y Dedicated corporate 
social responsibility (CSR) 
team
	y Strategic and sustainable 
community development
	y Affiliations with industry 
and other governing 
bodies
	y Staff volunteerism
	y Investor relations and 
stakeholder management
	y Health and safety initiatives
	y Investment in community and 
livelihood development
	y Regular dialogue with investors, analysts 
and other stakeholders
	y Social impact assessments
	y Identification of key stakeholders and 
material aspects in relation to them
	y Awareness creation and engagement of 
suppliers 
	y Social needs assessment based on 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)/
UN Global Compact/national agenda
INTELLECTUAL 
CAPITAL
	y Brand equity and 
stewardship
	y Research and 
development
	y Technological expertise
	y Digital infrastructure
	y Development of intangible 
infrastructure, processes and procedures 
to improve efficiency
	y New product development
	y Innovation
Here, we look at how our 
Business Model shapes 
and directs our widely 
diversified operations 
and activities, taking us 
steadily forward on our 
journey in Life.
This includes the six capitals that provide 
inputs - the relationships and resources 
we employ to create and deliver our 
Group strategy. We also describe our Risk 
Management Framework and policies, 
our progress in terms of ESG targets and 
our commitments to the UN Sustainable 
Development Goals, together with an 
evaluation of the economic, social and 
environmental impacts of our value 
creation activities.
48 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24

49
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
49
VISION:                                Building businesses that are leaders in the region
VALUES:              Caring           |           Excellence           |           Trust           |            Innovation           |           Integrity
STRATEGIC INITIATIVES 
PROCESSES AND FRAMEWORKS 
Page 119
Page 213
Page 145
Page 197
Page 156
Page 189
Page 166
Page 182
Page 135
	y
Driving growth and value that is consistent, competitive, profitable and responsible
	y
Flexible cost structures to ensure optimisation of costs and thereby driving efficiencies and profit maximisation
	y
Increasing brand equity through a comprehensive understanding of its target market, value proposition, and internal 
alignment to the brand promise and vision
	y
Recruiting, developing and retaining a talented pool of employees
	y
Re-engineering, process improvement, enterprise risk management and quality management
	y
Minimising environmental impacts through impact analysis and stakeholder engagement
	y
Advancing a culture of equitable inclusion amongst the workforce and value chain and ensuring that the dignity and diversity 
of all employees and value chain partners
	y
Ensuring that communities develop relevant life skills, and that the external environment is sustainable under the corporate 
social responsibility (CSR) mandate of 'Empowering the Nation for Tomorrow' 
JKH Code of Conduct 
Corporate Governance Framework
Group Policies
Integrated Risk Management Framework
Information Technology Governance
Human Resource Governance
Tax Governance
Sustainability Governance
Stakeholder Management and Effective 
Communication
Resource Allocation and Portfolio 
Management
Corporate Social Responsibility 
Strategy Formulation and Decision-Making
Industry Groups
Transportation
Other, incl. Information 
Technology and 
Plantation Services
Consumer Foods
Financial 
Services
Retail
Property
Leisure
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information

50 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
OUR BUSINESS MODEL
OUTPUT
OUTCOME
FINANCIAL AND  
MANUFACTURED 
CAPITAL
	y Shareholder returns and 
dividends
	y Payments to other 
stakeholders
	y Share price appreciation
Rs.45 billion
EBITDA
Rs.12 billion
Profit after tax
Rs.28 billion
Capital expenditure
	y Financial stability
	y Financial growth
	y Creation of wealth
Customers
Employees
Community
Institutional investors, 
fund managers, 
analysts, multilateral 
lenders
Government, 
Government 
institutions and 
departments
Legal and regulatory 
bodies
Business partners, 
principals, suppliers
Society, media, 
pressure groups, 
NGOs, environmental 
groups
Industry peers and 
competition
NATURAL 
CAPITAL
	y Disposal of all effluent and 
waste efficiently
	y Reduction of carbon 
footprint
	y Reduced resource 
consumption through 
better monitoring
0.42 MT
Carbon footprint (per 
Rs.million of revenue)
964,266 GJ
Energy used
56%
Non-hazardous 
waste reused/
recycled
	y Sustainable natural 
resource utilisation
	y Bio-diversity 
preservation
HUMAN 
CAPITAL
	y Staff motivation
	y Talented and efficient 
workforce
	y Job satisfaction
	y Career progression
	y Safe and equitable 
environment
99%
Employee retention 
rate
92 hours
Average hours 
of training per 
employee
254
Injuries
67:33
Male:Female  
staff ratio
	y Alignment of 
workforce with Group 
vision
	y Profitable businesses 
through improved 
productivity and 
efficiency
SOCIAL AND 
RELATIONSHIP 
CAPITAL
	y Community skills 
development
	y Well informed and sound 
investment decisions
	y Better supplier/distributor 
and stakeholder relations
1,952,511
Persons impacted 
by community 
engagements
86%
Purchases from local 
suppliers
Rs.187 million
Spend on CSR
	y Brand visibility and 
reputation
	y Strengthened supply 
chain
	y Adherence to UN 
SDGs
INTELLECTUAL 
CAPITAL
	y Patents
	y Copyrights
Rs.6.3 billion
Intangible assets
	 Transparency in Corporate Reporting 
(TRAC) Assessment by Transparency 
International Sri Lanka (TISL) 2023
	 LMD's Most Respected Entity 
	 LMD Top 100 Entities
	 Best Investor Relations at the Capital 
Market Awards 2023
Awards and Accolades
	y Evolving businesses to 
suit the ever changing, 
dynamic consumer
	y An entity better 
prepared to face 
disruptive business 
models
Stakeholder returns 
and engagement 
Page 256
50 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24

51
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
The notable increases in revenue primarily stemmed from,
Revenue emanating from domestic sources was Rs.196.90 billion 
[2022/23: Rs.183.95 billion].
Group revenue, inclusive of equity accounted investees, increased by 
2% to Rs.317.11 billion [2022/23: Rs.311.48 billion]. Revenue from equity 
accounted investees at Rs.36.34 billion, was an increase of 4% against 
the Rs.34.84 billion recorded in 2022/23. The increase stemmed primarily 
from Nations Trust Bank (NTB) and the 'TRI-ZEN' residential development 
project.  
The revenue breakdown across industry groups inclusive of share of 
associate revenue, is as follows:
Revenue including Equity 
Accounted Investees (Rs.million)
2023/24
2022/23
%
Transportation
 68,916
94,281
(27)
Consumer Foods
 32,897 
31,269
5
Retail
 122,502 
106,849
15
Leisure
 48,167 
39,859
21
Property
 5,234 
4,577
14
Financial Services
 33,336 
27,770
20
Other, incl. Information Technology 
and Plantation Services
 6,057 
6,874
(12)
Group
 317,109 
311,478
2
For a detailed analysis of performance, refer the Industry Group Review. 
FINANCIAL CAPITAL REVIEW
The Group recorded an encouraging 
performance during the year, aided by 
the country's stabilised macroeconomic 
and socio-political landscape compared 
to the previous year. The growth 
momentum gathered pace towards the 
latter part of the year, with the Group 
recording a strong performance in the 
third and fourth quarters of 2023/24.  
The improved operating environment and gradual improvement of 
consumer confidence enabled the Group to have a more positive outlook 
towards its investment and capital expenditure pipeline considering the 
significantly lower volatility and more certain macroeconomic outlook.
The following discussion provides a holistic view on the Group's key 
drivers and performance during the year under review. Where relevant, 
insight has been provided on the Group's underlying performance 
excluding one-off impacts through a discussion of a recurring 
performance analysis, as morefully detailed in the ensuing section.
  Financial Performance 
Page 51
The Retail industry group, mainly from the Supermarket business, 
due to a double-digit growth in same store sales driven by higher 
footfall and additional revenue from four new outlets. The notable 
traction for mobile phones also aided growth in revenue of the 
Office Automation business.
The Leisure industry group, driven by strong growth in the 
Group's Leisure properties in Sri Lanka and an uptick in the 
Destination Management sector as a result of higher tourist 
arrivals. All Sri Lankan hotel properties of the Group recorded 
encouraging growth in room rates and occupancy.  
The Insurance business owing to the increase in new business 
premiums and renewal premiums.
  Financial Position 
Page 58
  Cash and Liquidity Management 
Page 62
Focus Areas
For a discussion on each of the industry groups, please refer the Industry Group 
Review section of this Report.
   FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Revenue
Group revenue recorded a marginal increase of 1% to Rs.280.77 billion 
during the year under review [2022/23: Rs.276.64 billion]. Despite the 
strong double-digit revenue growth recorded by most businesses, overall 
Group revenue growth was muted primarily due to the decline in revenue 
of the Transportation industry group on account of the Bunkering business. 
The Bunkering business recorded a decline in revenue in the current year 
solely due to the sharp reduction in global fuel oil prices as compared to 
the previous year. Additionally, the US Dollar denominated revenue streams 
of the Group, including revenue of the Bunkering business, were adversely 
impacted, on translation, by the appreciation of the Sri Lankan Rupee by 
~11% on average, in comparison to the comparative period. Revenue 
increases across most other businesses aided the Group in cushioning the 
revenue decline of the Bunkering business. Group Revenue excluding the 
Transportation industry group stood at Rs.229.61 billion, a 13% increase 
against the previous year [2022/23: Rs.202.99 billion].
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
Composition of Revenue (incl. Equity Accounted Investees) 
Composition of Revenue (incl. Equity Accounted Investees) 
(%)
(%)
Transportation 
Leisure
Retail
Consumer
Foods
Property
Financial
Services
Other, incl.
Information
Technology
& Plantation Services 
FY23
FY24
21.7
30.3
10.4
10.0
38.6
34.3
15.2
12.8
1.7
1.5
10.5
8.9
1.9
2.2
Primary contributors:
1. Retail (39%)
2. Transportation (22%)
3. Leisure (15%)
  Leverage and Capital Structure 
Page 59
51
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information

52 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
Earnings Before Interest Expense, Tax, Depreciation and 
Amortisation
Group Earnings Before Interest Expense, Tax, Depreciation and Amortisation 
(EBITDA) increased by 1% to Rs.45.22 billion during the year under review 
[2022/23: Rs.44.56 billion]. Although the Financial Services, Consumer 
Foods and Leisure industry groups recorded growth in EBITDA, the increase 
was partly offset by a decline in the rest of the industry groups. The overall 
trend in EBITDA mirrored that of the growth and consumer sentiment in 
the overall economy, with a notable recovery in EBITDA across the quarters; 
growth in Q1, Q2, Q3 and Q4 stood at a negative 31%, a negative 13%, 32%, 
and 23% YoY growth, respectively.
Refer Page 54 for a discussion on the quarterly EBITDA movement.
Note: EBITDA includes interest income and the share of results of equity accounted 
investees which is based on the share of profit after tax but excludes all impacts from 
foreign currency exchange gains and losses (other than of equity accounted investees), 
to demonstrate the underlying cash operational performance of businesses.
Group EBITDA Reconciliation
(Rs.million)
2023/24
2022/23
%
Group revenue excl. equity 
accounted investees
 280,773 
 276,640 
 1 
(-) Cost of sales
(226,491) 
 (227,534) 
 0
(+) Other operating income
 4,510 
 3,261 
 38 
(-) Selling and distribution expenses
 (10,063) 
 (8,266) 
 22 
(-) Administration expenses
 (25,172) 
 (21,584) 
 17 
(-) Other operating expenses
 (8,188) 
 (9,826) 
 (17)
(+) Finance income
 22,568 
 26,900 
 (16)
(+/-) Change in insurance contract 
liabilities
 (10,833)
 (7,650)
 42 
(+/-) Change in fair value of 
investment property
 450 
 879 
 (49)
(+) Share of results of equity 
accounted investees
 10,129 
 7,574 
 34 
(+) Depreciation and amortisation
 11,466 
 11,284 
 2 
(-) Exchange gain*
 (3,374)
 (6,630)
 (49)
 45,774 
 45,046 
 2 
(-) Adjustments relating to 
policyholders at UA**
 (557) 
 (488) 
 14 
Group EBITDA
45,217 
44,558 
1
*To the extent captured under other operating income/expense and finance income.
* Adjustments to arrive at EBITDA solely attributable to the shareholders of the Group.
As Group EBITDA includes one-off impacts, the ensuing section discusses 
EBITDA on a recurring basis, excluding such one-off impacts that skew the 
year-on-year comparison. 
Primary contributors:
1. Financial Services (21%)
2. Leisure (20%)
3. Transportation and Retail (19% each)
Recurring Adjustments
To depict the underlying performance of the Group during the 
year, the recurring performance analysis entails the following 
adjustments: 
Routine adjustments:
Note 1 - Removal of impacts of fair value gains on investment 
property (IP):  
Fair value impacts on IP were recorded at a gain of Rs.450 million in 
2023/24 [2022/23: gain of Rs.879 million], primarily due to gains in:  
	y
Property - Rs.233 million
	y
Leisure - Rs.98 million
	y
Other, including Information Technology and Plantation Services 
- Rs.97 million
Since the assets at the Property industry group are held as a part 
of the Group's land banking strategy and aimed at monetising 
such assets in the medium-term, IP gains are reflective of the core 
operations of the Property industry group. Hence, for the recurring 
performance analysis, only IP gains pertaining to industry groups 
other than Property have been adjusted at a Group level.
On this basis, fair value gains, other than Property, stood at Rs.218 
million [2022/23: Rs.353 million].
Other one-offs/adjustments specific for 2023/24:
Note 2 – South Asia Gateway Terminals (SAGT) revisited the basis 
of its deferred tax computation, and, accordingly, recognised a 
deferred tax credit amounting to Rs.1.20 billion.
Note 3 – Deferred tax assets from tax losses and capital allowances 
brought forward in previous years, which cannot be recouped 
within the stipulated regulatory timelines, mainly due to the 
prolonged and numerous disruptions over the last few years, were 
written off at some of the Group's Maldivian and Sri Lankan Resorts.  
Other one-offs/adjustments specific for 2022/23:
Note 4 – The following one-off impacts from performance related 
initiatives were excluded:
i.	 2022/23 includes a reversal in the long-term cash-based 
incentive provisions, the plan of which was articulated in the 
2018/19 Annual Report, due to the unprecedented nature of 
challenges faced by the country and the businesses across the 
previous four years of disruption, and the resultant performance 
impact to businesses.
ii.	 The Group identified a roadmap of well-defined advanced 
analytics use cases, to be rolled-out across select Group 
businesses from the inception of the programme in 2018/19. 
While the programme was successful, as elaborated elsewhere 
in the Report, the roll-out of certain use cases were delayed 
from what was originally planned due to numerous disruptions 
such as the pandemic and the financial crisis in the country. 
Composition of EBITDA 
(%)
(5)
0
5
10
15
20
25
(%)
(%)
Transportation 
Leisure
Retail
Consumer
Foods
Property
Financial
Services
Other, incl.
Information
Technology
& Plantation Services 
FY23
FY24
23.9
19.4
7.4
11.1
19.8
19.4
19.2
20.3
(0.5)
(1.8)
15.3
20.6
14.9
11.1
FINANCIAL CAPITAL REVIEW

53
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Accordingly, the costs of some of these use cases, which were 
envisaged to be passed down to the related businesses, were 
written off, as a prudential measure.    
Note 5 – Further to the impairment loss recognised in 2021/22 at 
Saffron Aviation (Private) Limited (SAL), the operating company of 
'Cinnamon Air', the Group revisited its overall exposure to SAL given 
the continued multiple setbacks faced by the tourism industry in 
the past few years which impacted the operating performance 
of the business. Accordingly, a provision for impairment of the 
investment in preference shares of SAL by Whittall Boustead Travel 
Limited (WBTL) was recorded during 2022/23.
Note 6 – Due to the significant revision of corporate income tax rates 
in 2022/23, as per the Inland Revenue Act No. 45 of 2022, the Group 
revisited the cumulative deferred tax provisions across its businesses. 
Accordingly, since the deferred tax for 2022/23 was computed based 
on the amended rates, the cumulative income tax differentials were 
adjusted to reflect the tax provisions on a recurring basis.  
It is pertinent to note that the share of results of equity accounted 
investees in the Financial Statements are shown net of all related 
taxes. Thus, in calculating recurring EBITDA, recurring EBIT and 
recurring PBT, the recurring performance analysis adjusts for 
deferred tax provisions of equity accounted investees. This is 
applicable for adjustments detailed under both Note 2 and Note 6.
Adjustments (as already 
captured in reported results) 
(Rs.million)
Group
2023/24 2022/23
Routine adjustments:
Impact of fair value gains/(losses) 
on investment property (IP) excl. 
the Property industry group
Note 1
218
353
Adjustments stemming from 2023/24:
Deferred tax (DT) credit at SAGT 
from a change in the computation 
base
Note 2
1,203
N/A
One-off DT write-off in select 
Leisure businesses
Note 3
(408)
N/A
Adjustments stemming from 2022/23:
One-off impacts from performance 
related initiatives*
Note 4
N/A
(56)
Provision for impairment of WBTL's 
shares in SAF
Note 5
N/A
(422)
DT impact from a change in tax 
rates
Note 6
N/A
(1,057)
*The impact on the Holding Company amounted to Rs.533 million and is the only 
recurring adjustment that will be applied to reflect the recurring performance of 
the Holding Company.
Recurring EBITDA	
The recurring performance analysis entails the removal of one-off 
impacts in order to demonstrate the performance of the core operations 
of the businesses.
The recurring EBITDA for the year under review stood at Rs.43.80 billion, 
a 4% decline against the Rs.45.74 billion recorded in 2022/23. As evident 
from the graph below, the marginal growth in revenue and finance 
income was offset by higher operating costs.  
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
Recurring EBITDA
Recurring EBITDA
(Rs.billion)
(Rs.billion)
Recurring EBITDA
in FY23
Revenue
Cost of sales
Selling and
distribution expenses
Administration
expenses
Other expenses
and adjustments
Finance income
Insurance contract
liabilities
Share of results
of associates
Depreciation and
amortisation
Recurring EBITDA
in FY24
Increase
Decrease
Total
45.74
5.38
1.04
(1.80)
(2.96)
(2.74)
2.13
(3.48)
0.30
0.18
43.80
The recurring EBITDA breakdown for each of the industry groups are 
given below.
Recurring EBITDA (Rs.million)
2023/24
2022/23
%
Transportation
 7,570 
 11,963 
 (37)
Consumer Foods
 4,993 
 3,184 
 57 
Retail
 8,762 
 8,779 
 0
Leisure
 9,059 
 8,604 
 5 
Property
 (822)
 (265)
 (210)
Financial Services
 9,296 
 6,451 
 44 
Other, incl. Information Technology 
and Plantation Services
 4,938 
 7,024 
 (30)
Group
 43,796 
 45,740 
 (4)
Transportation industry group – decrease in EBITDA in line with 
the decline in revenue, particularly owing to the appreciation of 
the Rupee given its predominant foreign currency denominated 
business portfolio, while the EBITDA margin remained the same 
as the previous year. 
Other, including Information Technology and Plantation Services 
industry group – decrease in foreign currency-linked interest 
income in LKR terms primarily due to the translation impact 
stemming from the appreciation of the LKR, which was partially 
offset by higher foreign currency interest income. 
Property industry group – the Group recognised an asset write-
off, under other operating expenses, amounting to Rs.639 million 
on account of the closure of the 'K-Zone Ja-Ela' mall which is the 
site where the new residential development will be undertaken, 
therefore resulting in the existing assets becoming redundant.
Key impacts to EBITDA stemming from the respective industry groups 
are as follows:

54 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
FINANCIAL CAPITAL REVIEW
Recurring EBITDA Margins
Recurring EBITDA Margins (%)
2023/24
2022/23
Transportation
 11.0 
 12.7 
Consumer Foods
 15.2 
 10.2 
Retail
 7.2 
 8.2 
Leisure
 18.8 
 21.6 
Property
 (15.7)
 (5.8)
Financial Services
 27.9 
 23.2 
Other, incl. Information Technology and 
Plantation Services
 81.5 
 102.2 
Group
 13.8 
 14.7 
For a detailed industry-group wise analysis, refer the Industry Group Review of 
this Report. 
Industry group-wise quarterly performance
As evident from the table below, the Group's performance across the 
quarters illustrates the recovery momentum during the year under 
review. Profitability gathered pace from quarter to quarter in line with 
overall economic activity.  
	y
Q1: Sri Lanka continued to witness normal day-to-day activities 
with all key macroeconomic indicators showing sustained 
improvement, with inflation and interest rates recording a decline 
and the Rupee appreciating on the back of improved foreign 
exchange inflows and confidence. Most of the Group's businesses, 
particularly in Transportation and Leisure, had a negative impact 
on the financial performance due to the translation impact on 
account of the appreciation of the Rupee by ~11% on average over 
the comparative period, which impacted the overall EBITDA of the 
Group in Q1. Strong growth in the Financial Services industry group 
helped cushion this impact.
	y
Q2: Group businesses, except for Transportation and Property, 
recorded growth in profitability. The operating environment in 
the country continued its gradual normalisation supported by 
sustained improvement in the country's key macroeconomic 
indicators, and enhanced confidence levels. Similar to Q1, 
performance of the Transportation industry group was impacted 
by the strong domestic currency in comparison to the comparative 
period. 
	y
Q3: The Group recorded a strong performance in Q3 with all 
businesses, other than the Transportation industry group, recording 
strong growth in recurring profits, on the back of a more stabilised 
operating environment and improvement in consumer sentiment. 
The Transportation industry group continued to be affected by the 
stronger Rupee.
	y
Q4: The notable increase in tourist arrivals and the overall 
macroeconomic stability of the country, aided Group businesses, 
especially the Leisure industry group. Both the Beverages and Frozen 
Confectionery businesses also recorded strong volume growth and 
improved profitability as a result of a higher absorption of fixed costs. 
The Transportation industry group was able to leverage on the various 
opportunities that arose from increased shipping traffic in the region 
stemming from the rerouting of ships due to the Red Sea crisis. 
Financial Services – fuelled by robust performance in both the 
Insurance business, which saw double-digit growth in gross 
written premiums and net interest income, and the Banking 
business, which experienced strong growth in net interest 
income alongside benefits from various cost optimisation 
measures.
Consumer Foods – driven by higher volumes and the decline in 
input costs which contributed to notable margin improvements 
in the Beverages and Frozen Confectionery businesses.
Rs.million
YoY %
2023/24
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Group Revenue
Transportation
 11,373 
 8,871 
 12,584 
 18,337 
 (53)
 (56)
 (18)
 30 
Consumer Foods
 7,967 
 8,082 
 6,931 
 9,917 
 4 
 (4)
 (5)
 26 
Retail
 29,996 
 30,079 
 32,569 
 29,858 
 17 
 16 
 16 
 9 
Leisure
 8,653 
 10,708 
 12,809 
 15,715 
 0 
 33 
 20 
 27 
Property
 356 
 332 
 449 
 466 
 (40)
 (52)
 12 
 7 
Financial Services
 4,086 
 4,544 
 5,436 
 4,599 
 22 
 14 
 12 
 15 
Other, including Information Technology and 
Plantation Services 
 1,348 
 1,498 
 1,482 
 1,729
 (20)
 (19)
 (11)
 3 
Group
 63,778 
 64,114 
 72,260 
 80,621 
 (11)
 (7)
 6 
 19 
Group Recurring EBITDA
Transportation
1,615 
1,700 
1,928 
2,328 
 (65)
(44)
(32)
51 
Consumer Foods
720 
1,237 
897 
2,140 
(42)
23 
123 
297 
Retail
1,987 
1,983 
2,390 
2,402 
(14)
1 
3 
10 
Leisure
284 
1,065 
2,560 
5,150 
(85)
6 
35 
34 
Property
187 
(435)
60 
(634)
234 
(56)
119 
(236)
Financial Services
1,693 
1,702 
4,040 
1,861 
93 
54 
57 
(2)
Other, including Information Technology and 
Plantation Services 
1,937 
810 
1,466 
725 
(26)
(44)
(16)
(40)
Group
8,422 
8,061 
13,342 
13,971 
(37)
(13)
16 
20 

55
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Depreciation and Amortisation 
The depreciation and amortisation expense for the year stood at Rs.11.46 
billion, an increase of 2% against the depreciation for 2022/23 at Rs.11.28 
billion. It is noted that the depreciation and amortisation expense also 
includes the amortisation of lease liabilities as per SLFRS 16 - Leases.
The key impacts to the depreciation and amortisation expenses were 
as follows: 
Finance Income
Group finance income stood at Rs.22.57 billion during the year under 
review, a decrease of 16% [2022/23: Rs.26.90 billion], the composition of 
which is given in the table below. 
Finance Income (Rs.million)
2023/24
2022/23
Interest income from life insurance policy 
holder funds at Union Assurance PLC (UA)
11,085
8,474
Interest income of Group excluding UA
6,942
8,385
Other finance income
4,541
10,041 
Total
22,568
26,900
	y
Interest income associated with the life insurance policy holder funds 
at UA of Rs.11.09 billion [2022/23: Rs.8.47 billion], net of related costs, 
is classified under operating segment results on the basis that the 
interest income from life insurance funds is considered operational 
income. This figure increased on account of higher yields on its fixed 
income portfolio together with the increase in the size of the life fund.
	y
The interest income of the Group, excluding UA, decreased to Rs.6.94 
billion [2022/23: Rs.8.39 billion], primarily stemming from the Holding 
Company. The decrease in interest income was driven by lower 
interest rates locally, the translation impact on the foreign currency 
denominated interest income due to the appreciation of the Rupee, 
as well as a decline in cash and cash equivalents at the Holding 
Company on account of the planned utilisation, including for equity 
infusions. It should be noted that the cash balances are held as part 
of a conscious strategy of maintaining a balance sheet hedge against 
the long-term USD borrowings of the Group, where the interest 
expenses in relation to such borrowings are reflected under finance 
expenses. 
the translation impact on the amortisation of leases across the 
Maldivian Resorts, given its US Dollar denomination, contributed 
to the decline in the depreciation and amortisation charge.
the Supermarket business, driven by an increase in assets on 
account of the roll-out of four new outlets and the acquisition of 
leasehold land, conversion of four outlets to the extended store 
format, and capitalisation costs pertaining to the advanced data 
analytics transformation programme.
the Consumer Foods industry stemming from higher 
investments in furniture, fixtures and equipment during the year 
and capitalisation of advanced analytics costs on the Frozen 
Confectionery business.  
	y
The decrease in other finance income to Rs.4.51 billion is primarily 
attributable to the comparative period 2022/23 comprising of an 
exchange gain amounting to Rs.9.46 billion, whilst 2023/24 comprised 
of an exchange loss of Rs.369 million on account of the appreciation of 
the domestic currency and the lower base of the Holding Company's 
net foreign currency denominated cash holdings during the current 
year as compared to the higher base in the previous year. As outlined, 
the foreign currency cash holdings include the funds earmarked for 
the equity infusions of the 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka' project (previously 
referred to as 'Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort') and the funds raised 
for the Group's investment pipeline via the debt drawdown from the 
IFC long-term loan facility.
•	 The impact was partially offset from exchange impacts at Waterfront 
Properties (Private) Limited (WPL). The functional reporting currency 
of WPL, the project company of 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka', was 
transitioned from USD to LKR, given the impending commencement 
of operations of the project in the current year. The appreciation of the 
LKR against the USD, subsequent to this transition, resulted in a non-
cash exchange gain of Rs.3.00 billion on the USD 219 million term loan 
facility at WPL and was captured under Finance Income. This impact 
on the Income Statement purely arises from the transition of the 
functional currency to Rupees, as this was previously captured under 
Statement of Changes in Equity. 
Although Finance Income may include exchange impacts, for the 
purposes of computing EBITDA, this has been eliminated. 
Further details on finance income can be found in the Notes to the Financial 
Statements section of this Report.
Finance Expense
The finance expense, which includes interest expense of the Group, 
increased by 10% to Rs.19.67 billion, compared to the Rs.17.80 billion 
recorded in 2022/23. Finance expenses recorded an increase despite a 
decrease in the total debt levels of the Group, as detailed further in the 
ensuing section, and the declining trend of local interest rates.
The key impacts to finance expenses stemmed from:
Holding Company – on account of (1) notional non-cash interest of 
Rs.3.02 billion [2022/23: Rs.1.83 billion] charged in line with market 
rates on the convertible debentures issued during the year, in 
line with the accounting treatment, on account of the significant 
difference between the market rate and the 3% coupon rate and 
(2) an increase in Rupee borrowing costs due to an increase in 
Rupee debt in line with the planned funding strategy of the Group 
at this juncture. To this end, total debt (including lease liabilities) 
increased by Rs.5.14 billion to Rs.95.25 billion.  
Maldivian Resorts segment – stemming from (1) higher working 
capital requirements resulting in an increase in borrowings and 
(2) higher USD interest rates given the hawkish monetary policy 
stance of the US Federal Reserve.  
Supermarket business – decrease in base debt as the business 
strategically rebalanced its portfolio of borrowings in light of the 
enhanced generation of cash in its business and the low interest 
rate environment.
Office Automation business – in lieu of (1) a notable reduction in its 
borrowing base and (2) declining interest rate trends during the year. 

56 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
FINANCIAL CAPITAL REVIEW
The interest cover of the Group, excluding unrealised losses on UA's 
equity portfolio, stood at 1.7 times in comparison to 1.9 times in 2022/23. 
The movement in the interest coverage stems primarily from the 10% 
increase in finance expense compared to only a 2% increase in EBIT, as 
outlined in the previous section.  
Profit Before Tax
The Group profit before taxation (PBT) stood at Rs.18.01 billion for the year 
under review, a 20% decrease against the previous year [2022/23: Rs.22.59 
billion].
The recurring Group PBT stood at Rs.16.59 billion for the year under review, 
a 30% decrease against the previous year [2022/23: Rs.23.77 billion]. In 
addition to the recurring adjustments, the exchange impact also has a 
significant bearing on Group PBT, especially at the Holding Company. 
Group PBT excluding the impact of exchange gains/losses stood at Rs.14.64 
billion [2022/23: Rs.15.96 billion], due to the reasons discussed before.
Taxation
The Group tax expense increased by 59% to Rs.5.89 billion during the 
year under review [2022/23: Rs.3.69 billion]. The Group tax expense 
primarily comprises of a current tax charge of Rs.4.65 billion [2022/23: 
Rs.4.61 billion] and a deferred tax charge of Rs.1.23 billion [2022/23: 
reversal of Rs.921 million].  
Noteworthy impacts on the Group tax expense:
	y
Current Year 2023/24
•	 The Holding Company recorded a current tax charge of Rs.6.30 
million as opposed to Rs.2.06 billion recorded in the previous year. 
The notable decline in the tax charge stems from the business 
recording a net exchange loss, whilst 2022/23 entailed an 
exchange gain of Rs.9.46 billion. Additionally, dividends received 
during the year was post the deduction of withholding tax at 
source at 14%. Hence, this is not reflected in the current tax charge. 
In contrast, the tax on dividends received during the first three 
quarters of 2022/23 was paid by the Company and is captured in 
the tax charge for 2022/23.
•	 Deferred tax assets from tax losses and capital allowances brought 
forward in previous years, which cannot be recouped within the 
stipulated regulatory timelines, mainly due to the prolonged and 
numerous disruptions over the last few years, were written off at 
some of the Group's Maldivian and Sri Lankan Resorts. As discussed 
under Recurring adjustments, this amounted to Rs.408 million.  
•	 As noted previously, the Group recognised an asset write-off, 
under other operating expenses, on account of the closure of the 
'K-Zone Ja-Ela' mall which is the site where the new residential 
development will be undertaken, therefore resulting in the existing 
assets becoming redundant. Resultantly, the Group recognised a 
deferred tax reversal amounting to Rs.239 million. 
	y
Comparative Year 2022/23
•	 Colombo Ice Company (Private) Limited (CICL) recognised a 
one-off tax reversal amounting to Rs.755 million arising from 
the additional deduction due on account of enhanced capital 
allowances on its investment in the impulse ice cream factory. 
•	 The new Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 45 of 2022 was 
introduced which entailed notable changes to the corporate 
income tax rates, which was implemented with effect from 1 
October 2022. The ensuing table highlights the impact on Group 
businesses:
Industry Group
Previous Rate
Revised
Rate
Transportation 
14%
30%
15% on 
dividends 
(withheld 
at source)
Consumer Foods
18% applicable on the 
manufacturing sector
Retail
24%
Leisure
14% for the promotion of tourist 
activities
Property
14% for construction services
Financial Services  
24% for insurance, banking and 
stock broking businesses
Other, including 
Information 
Technology 
and Plantation 
Services
Information Technology – exempt
Plantation Services – 14%
John Keells Holdings PLC – 10% 
on capital gains, 14% on dividends 
and 24% on business income
•	 Due to the significant revision of corporate income tax rates in 
2022/23 as outlined above, the Group revisited and adjusted the 
cumulative deferred tax provisions across its businesses.
The effective tax rate (ETR) on Group profits increased to 33%, as against 
16% recorded in 2022/23, due to the distortions mentioned above. 
Other, including Information Technology and Plantation Services, 
Financial Services, Retail and Consumer Foods were the highest 
contributors to the Group tax expense with Rs.2.16 billion, Rs.1.50 billion, 
Rs.882 million and Rs.800 million, respectively. 
For further details on tax impacts, refer the Notes to the Financial Statements 
section of this Report. 
Primary contributors:
1. Other, incl. Information Technology 
and Plantation Services (59%)
2. Leisure (17%)
3. Retail (16%)
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
Composition of Finance Expense 
Composition of Finance Expense 
(%)
(%)
Transportation 
Leisure
Retail
Consumer
Foods
Property
Financial
Services
Other, incl.
Information
Technology
& Plantation Services 
FY23
FY24
4.0
3.4
5.4
3.8
23.0
16.3
17.3
16.5
0.7
0.6
0.0
0.0
49.6
59.4
Composition of Finance Expense 
(%)
0
5,000
10,000
15,000
20,000
Finance Expense and Interest Coverage
Finance Expense and Interest Coverage
(Rs.million)
(Rs.million)
(times)
(times)
FY20
FY21
FY22
FY23
FY24
Finance Expense (Excluding MTM Losses)
Interest Cover
4.4
1.8
3,105
17,803
19,669
3.1
1.9
1.7
0
1
2
3
4
5
6,716
4,395

57
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
(80)
(60)
(40)
(20)
0
20
40
60
80
Transportation 
Leisure
Retail
Consumer
Foods
Property
Financial
Services
Other, incl.
Information
Technology
& Plantation Services 
FY23
FY24
61.6
47.7
9.2
17.9
6.9
17.0
(1.9)
22.4
(12.4)
(4.7)
30.0
64.3
20.5
(78.4)
Primary contributors:
1. Financial Services (64%)
2. Transportation (62%)
3. Leisure (22%)
Composition of Group Profit After Tax
(%)
Profit After Tax 
The Group profit after taxation (PAT) stood at Rs.12.13 billion for the year 
under review, a decrease of 36% [2022/23: Rs.18.90 billion].
0
5,000
10,000
15,000
20,000
25,000
Net Proﬁt and Net Proﬁt Margin
Net Proﬁt and Net Proﬁt Margin
(Rs.million)
(Rs.million)
(%)
(%)
FY20
FY21
FY22
FY23
FY24
Net Proﬁt to Equity Holders of the Parent
Net Proﬁt Margin (%)
6.0
3.3
18,174
8.3
5.8
3.5
2
4
6
8
10
20,213
11,248
9,414
4,772
For the recurring performance analysis, the reported PAT will be adjusted 
for all the impacts detailed under Recurring Adjustments. On this basis, 
the recurring Group PAT decreased by 46% to Rs.11.12 billion [2022/23: 
Rs.20.74 billion].  
The breakdown of Group PAT, between PAT attributable to equity holders 
and non-controlling interest (NCI) are as follows:
Rs.million
2023/24
2022/23
%
PAT attributable to equity holders
 11,248
 18,174 
(38)
Non-controlling interest (NCI)
 879
 722 
22
Group PAT
12,128
18,896
(36)
Non-Controlling Interests (NCI)
PAT attributable to shareholders with NCI stood at Rs.879 million in 
2023/24, a 22% increase primarily on account of improved performance 
at Ceylon Cold Stores PLC (CCS) in which the Group owns an ~81% stake, 
better profitability of the Leisure industry group in which the Group 
owns effective stakes of ~80%, and an improvement in the profitability 
of the Group's 90% owned insurance business, UA. 
PAT Attributable to Equity Holders of the Parent (Net Profit)
PAT attributable to equity holders of the Parent decreased by 38% to 
Rs.11.25 billion [2022/23: Rs.18.17 billion]. The net profit margin of the 
Group decreased to 3.5% from 5.8% in the previous year. The recurring 
net profit attributable to equity holders decreased by 49% to Rs.10.21 
billion [2022/23: Rs.20.03 billion], whilst the recurring net profit margin of 
the Group decreased to 3.2%, against 6.4% in 2022/23.
INSIGHTS
Impact of the Conversion of Convertible Debentures issued to 
HWIC Asia Fund
As detailed in the JKH Annual Report 2022/23, in August 2022, JKH 
issued 208,125,000 LKR denominated debentures ('Debentures'), 
with a face value of Rs.27.06 billion, to HWIC Asia Fund ('HWIC'), a 
subsidiary of Fairfax Financial Holdings Limited. The Debentures 
were issued at Rs.130 per Debenture and with the option for 
conversion to shares at a ratio of 1:1, based on the approval granted 
by the shareholders at the time.  
In February 2024, HWIC exercised its option to convert 110,000,000 
Debentures, with a face value of Rs.14.30 billion. Accordingly, JKH 
issued and listed 110,000,000 new ordinary shares of the Company. 
The remaining outstanding Debentures post this conversion amount 
to 98,125,000 Debentures with a face value of Rs.12.76 billion. The 
remaining Debentures are eligible for conversion till 12 August 2025.  
Accounting Impact:
	y
The liability corresponding to the Debentures converted was 
moved to stated capital. Accordingly, the revised liability post 
accounting for the conversion in February 2024 is as noted 
below. In the event of a conversion of the remaining Debentures 
in future, the liability outstanding as at the date of conversion 
will be transferred to equity. 
Rs.million
2022/23 2023/24 2024/25 2025/26
Opening balance
-
18,380
 10,201
 12,028 
Recognition of liability
16,550
-
-
-
Interest charge to P&L
2,239
 3,833 
 2,230 
 918 
Interest paid
(409)
 (812)
 (404)
 (190)
Conversion to equity/
repayment 
-
(11,200)
-
(12,756)
Closing balance
18,380
 10,201 
 12,028 
-
	y
As noted in the JKH Annual Report 2022/23, at the point 
of issuing the Debentures, both a liability and an equity 
component under other capital reserves were recognised in 
the accounts, given that the instrument had both debt-like and 
equity-like features. Alongside the conversion, the portion under 
other capital reserves attributable to the Debentures converted 
was also moved to stated capital.   
	y
Whilst the cash outlay in lieu of the interest paid on the 
Debentures stands at a nominal interest of 3% charged on 
the par value of the Debentures, the interest charged to the 
income statement is based on a market interest rate, which 
was determined upfront, and the corresponding liability. Whilst 
the market rate will remain static throughout the tenure of the 
instrument, the liability will increase quarterly since the interest 
paid, on a cash basis, remains at 3%. 
	y
The early conversion has reduced the notional interest impact 
from the levels originally envisaged; but will continue the 
trend of increasing marginally across successive quarters until 
conversion/repayment.

58 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
FINANCIAL CAPITAL REVIEW
Performance of the Holding Company
Rs.million
2023/24
2022/23
%
Revenue
 2,916 
 2,544 
 15 
Dividend income
 11,503 
 10,635 
 8 
Finance income
 5,787 
 16,328 
 (65)
Finance expenses
 (11,971)
 (8,779)
 36 
Profit before tax
 4,259 
 16,767 
 (75)
Recurring profit before tax*
 4,259 
 17,300 
 (75)
Profit after tax
 4,252 
 14,709 
 (71)
Recurring profit after tax*
 4,252 
 15,243 
 (72)
*Adjusted for the recurring impacts discussed under Page 52.
	y
The increase in revenue is primarily on account of higher 
commercial fees from Group businesses and associates as well as 
higher charges in lieu of the data analytics services rendered by 
OCTAVE - the Data and Advanced Analytics Centre of Excellence 
of the Group.
	y
Dividend income in 2023/24 recorded an increase primarily due to 
higher dividend payments from the Group's Insurance business, 
Union Assurance, in lieu of a significant growth in profits, strong 
balance sheet and a healthy capital adequacy ratio (CAR).
	y
Finance income, which comprises both interest income and 
net exchange gains on the Group's USD denominated net cash 
balance, recorded a decrease as a result of:
•	 2022/23 comprising of an exchange gain amounting to Rs.9.46 
billion, whilst 2023/24 comprised of an exchange loss of Rs.369 
million. The lower base of the Holding Company's net foreign 
currency denominated cash holdings characterised 2023/24, 
as compared to the higher base in the previous year.
•	 a decrease in interest income stemming from the translation 
impact on the foreign currency denominated interest income, 
as well as a decline in cash and cash equivalents at the Holding 
Company on account of the planned utilisation for equity 
infusions in investments, as outlined earlier.
•	 given the significant foreign currency borrowings at the 
Holding Company, primarily the USD 175 million loan facility 
from the IFC, the Company has interest rate swap agreements 
in place for a sizeable portion of the foreign currency 
borrowings at the Holding Company. These agreements are in 
place to mitigate the Holding Company's exposure to volatility 
in global interest rates, resultantly on finance costs, and to cap 
the maximum risk exposure. During the year under review, this 
underlying hedge instrument recorded a gain of Rs.1.46 billion. 
This was captured under finance income as per the accounting 
standards, although closely tied to the underlying loan.  
	y
Finance costs recorded an increase during the year on account of 
(1) notional non-cash interest of Rs.3.02 billion [2022/23: Rs.1.83 
billion] charged in line with market rates on the convertible 
debentures issued during the year, in line with the accounting 
treatment, on account of the significant difference between the 
market rate and the 3% coupon rate and (2) an increase in Rupee 
borrowing costs due to an increase in Rupee debt in line with the 
planned funding strategy of the Group at this juncture.
   FINANCIAL POSITION
Assets
Assets
Equity and Liabilities
Equity and Liabilities
(Rs.million)
(Rs.million)
(Rs.million)
(Rs.million)
Property, plant and equipment, leasehold rentals paid in
advance, investment property and other non-current assets
Investments in subsidiaries, associates and non-current
ﬁnancial assets
Current assets, deferred tax assets and intangible assets
Shareholders' funds
Non-controlling interests
Non-current liabilities
Current liabilities
FY22
FY23
FY24
FY24
FY23
FY22
 717,796
 744,506
 771,192
 771,192 
 744,506 
 717,796 
 389,357 
 82,556 
 245,883 
 191,180 
 102,443 
 450,883 
 466,403 
 357,867 
 341,022 
 311,311 
 18,781 
 258,095 
 129,609 
 19,396 
 293,379 
 90,709 
 19,610 
 261,577 
 132,138 
 122,633 
 182,156 
Group Assets
The Group's total assets as at 31 March 2024 stood at Rs.771.19 billion, 
an increase of Rs.26.69 billion [2022/23: Rs.744.51 billion], primarily 
driven by an increase in property, plant and equipment, other non-
current financial assets and investments in associates.
	y
The increase in property, plant and equipment was primarily driven 
by the higher level of project completion related to 'City of Dreams 
Sri Lanka' (previously referred to as 'Cinnamon Life Integrated 
Resort'), revaluation gains on land and buildings, primarily in the 
Colombo Hotels segment and capital investments in the Retail and 
Consumer Foods industry groups.
	y
The increase in other non-current financial assets stemmed from 
UA, due to a mark-to-market valuation gain on available for sale 
financial assets as a result of the relatively low interest rates and a 
reinvestment of maturities which includes accrued interest.
	y
The increase in investment in associates mainly stemmed from 
the retention of the share of profits of NTB and investments made 
in the West Container Terminal (WCT-1) project at the Port of 
Colombo.
Group Assets
Group Debt*
Group Net Debt/(Cash)*
Rs.771.19 billion
Rs.214.10 billion
Rs.127.27 billion
2022/23: Rs.744.51 billion
2022/23: Rs.229.75 billion
2022/23: Rs.129.41 billion
4%
7%
2%
*Excludes lease liabilities.

59
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
   LEVERAGE AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE
The following illustration details the sources by which the total assets 
of the Group as at the period end, were funded.
Total assets 
of Rs.771.19 bn 
as at 
March 2024
46%
Shareholder funds
3%
Non-controlling interest
34%
Long-term funding/
creditors
17%
Short-term funding/
creditors
Funding 
Channels
INSIGHTS
Capital Expenditure
The Group has carried out significant investments which have 
continued steadfastly, maintaining the depth and breadth of the 
Group's long-term investment strategy which is now coming to 
fruition.
The investments in recent years have focused on a refurbished 
portfolio of Leisure properties and the acquisition of a long-term 
lease on a new hotel in the Maldives. The Group has also doubled 
its outlet footprint in the Supermarket business to over 130 
outlets and investments to enhance capacity and capability in 
the Frozen Confectionery and Insurance businesses have been 
undertaken. The Group's integrated resort 'City of Dreams Sri 
Lanka', which has been under construction for the past 10 years 
and comprises of a significant allocation of capital employed, is 
near complete and slated to commence operations in the third 
quarter of 2024/25.
The Group is confident of its ability to fund projects, if feasible, 
and as required, thereby optimising equity returns in the long 
run. 
In addition to the routine maintenance capital expenditure, the 
key investments the Group will focus on in the near-term:
	y
Balance investment towards the completion of 'City of 
Dreams Sri Lanka' 
	y
Investment towards the West Container Terminal (WCT-1) of 
the Port of Colombo
	y
Roll-out of the Supermarket outlets
	y
Completion of the 215-key hotel in Kandy, which follows an 
asset-light investment model, where the Group will hold a 
40% minority equity stake. 40% minority equity stake
The below table illustrates the Group's debt position considering the 
impact of leases and the convertible debentures. 
Group Debt (Rs.million)
2023/24
2022/23
%
Including Convertible Debentures
Including leases
246,065
264,060
(7)
Excluding leases
214,101
229,749
(7)
Excluding Convertible Debentures
Including leases
235,864
245,680
(4)
Excluding leases
203,899
211,369
(4)
In August 2022, the Company raised funds by way of a private 
placement of LKR denominated securities to HWIC Asia Fund (HWIC), 
through the issuance of convertible debentures. The convertible 
debentures are recorded under non-current financial liabilities in the 
Balance Sheet. Given the conversion option of the debentures, the 
analysis on debt will be discussed in the following manner:
	y
Group debt will include long and short-term loans, including 
overdrafts, lease liabilities and the liability arising from the issuance 
of the convertible debentures. Instances where total debt excludes 
lease liabilities will be explicitly mentioned.
	y
Given that convertible debentures have both a debt-like and 
equity-like nature, all indicators will be additionally discussed 
separately excluding the liability arising from the issuance of 
convertible debentures. 
Group Debt and Net Debt/Cash
Debt, in general, recorded a decrease across all businesses, stemming 
from higher operational cash flows which aided the businesses in better 
managing its debt obligations, as well as the positive translation impact 
on foreign currency loans given the significant appreciation of the Rupee 
during the year under review. The decrease in Group debt (excluding both 
lease liabilities and the convertible debenture liability) by Rs.7.47 billion was 
primarily as a result of: 
	y
Repayment of interest-bearing borrowings, particularly at the Holding 
Company and at Waterfront Properties (Private) Limited (WPL), the 
project company of 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka'. This is captured under the 
Leisure industry group. 
	y
Translation impact on USD denominated loan facilities stemming 
from the appreciation of the Rupee. The key foreign currency facilities 
comprise the USD 219 million syndicate loan facility at WPL and the 
USD 175 million loan facility from the IFC at the Holding Company. 
These are captured under the Leisure and Other, including Information 
Technology and Plantation Services industry groups, respectively.
	y
Better working capital and supplier management arrangements both 
at the Supermarket and the Office Automation businesses, which are 
captured under the Retail industry group. Repayments of borrowings by the 
Supermarket business also aided the reduction of the overall debt position. 
The Group recorded a net debt position (excluding both lease liabilities and the 
convertible debenture liability) of Rs.117.07 billion, a 5% increase against the 
net debt position of the previous year, which stood at Rs.111.03 billion, owing 
to the reduction in cash balances and short-term investments of the Group. 
The basis of computing cash and cash equivalents and the reasons for the 
decline is discussed in detail in the ensuing section – page 62. 

60 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
FINANCIAL CAPITAL REVIEW
The Group's net debt position (excluding lease liabilities but including convertible debenture liability) stood at Rs.127.27 billion, a decrease of 2% 
against the previous year.
Group Debt (excluding leases)
Net Debt (excluding leases)
Rs.million
2023/24
2022/23
%
2023/24
2022/23
%
Transportation
 6,808 
 8,610 
 (21)
 111 
 (1,068)
 (110)
Consumer Foods
 5,238 
 6,536 
 (20)
 4,509 
 5,988 
 (25)
Retail
 14,687 
 20,510 
 (28)
 13,093 
 18,930 
 (31)
Leisure
 90,826 
 102,439 
 (11)
 85,733 
 98,569 
 (13)
Property
 1,033 
 1,161 
 (11)
 (1,183)
 (7,752)
 85
Financial Services
 75 
 141 
 (47)
 (9,045)
 (5,882)
 (54)
Other, including Information Technology and Plantation Services
 85,232 
71,972
18
23,854
2,244
 963 
Total (excluding convertible debenture liability)
 203,899 
211,369
 (4)
 117,071 
111,029
5
Convertible debenture liability*
 10,201 
 18,380 
(44)
 10,201 
 18,380 
 (44)
Total (including convertible debenture liability)
 214,101 
229,749
 (7)
127,272
129,409
 (2)
 *Convertible debenture liability is captured under the Other, incl. Information Technology and Plantation Services industry group, in the segmental analysis under the Financial 
Statements. 
** In February 2024, HWIC exercised its option to convert 110,000,000 Debentures, with a face value of Rs.14.30 billion. This resulted in the reduction of the convertible debenture 
liability by Rs.11.20 billion. However, the delta during the year is lower than the reduction stemming from the conversion, as the balance debenture value continued to increase across 
the year with the aim of reaching par value of the Debentures at maturity, in line with the accounting treatment of such instruments, as discussed on page 57. 
The discussions above on both Group debt and net debt excluded the impact of lease liabilities recorded from the adoption of SLFRS 16 – Leases. 
Lease liabilities as at 31 March 2024 stood at Rs.31.96 billion, a 7% decrease against last year [2022/23: Rs.34.31 billion]. The primary decreases in lease 
liabilities stem from:
	y
Rental payments at the Supermarket business and payment of leasehold rental on the islands occupied by the Maldivian Resorts.
	y
Translation impact on USD denominated right-of-use liabilities in the Maldivian Resorts segment, stemming from the appreciation of the Rupee. 
Including Convertible Debenture Liability
Excluding Convertible Debenture Liability
2023/24
2022/23
2022/23
2022/23
Asset turnover 
(times)
 0.4 
 0.4 
 ** 
 ** 
Capital employed 
(Rs.million)
 623,542 
 624,478 
 613,340 
 606,098 
Total debt* 
(Rs.million)
 214,101 
229,749
 203,899 
211,369
Net debt / (cash)* 
(Rs.million)
 127,272 
129,409
 117,071 
111,029
Debt/equity ratio* 
(%)
 56.7 
 63.7 
 54.0 
 58.6 
Net debt / (cash) to equity ratio* 
(%)
 33.7 
 35.9 
 31.0 
 30.8 
Long-term debt to total debt* 
(%)
 64.2 
 77.5 
 62.4 
 75.6 
Debt/total assets* 
(%)
 27.8 
 30.9 
 26.4 
 28.4 
Liabilities to tangible net worth 
(times)
 1.1 
 1.1 
 ** 
 ** 
Debt/EBITDA* 
(times)
 4.7 
 5.2 
 4.5 
 4.7 
Net debt (cash) /EBITDA* 
(times)
 2.8 
 2.9 
 2.6 
 2.5 
*Excludes lease liabilities. 
**No impact from the inclusion of the convertible debenture liability 
Key indicators such as the net debt/equity ratio at ~30-35% indicate the Group's ability to fund its investment pipeline, as and when required. The net 
debt/EBITDA marginally decreased against the previous year since Group net debt noted a decline whilst EBITDA remained largely in line with that of 
2022/23. The net/debt to EBITDA at below 3 times demonstrates a comfortable leverage position against the cash generating capacity of the Group 
businesses. The Group will, however, continue to focus on reducing the exposure and volatility while ensuring the funding to complete its significant 
and transformative pipeline of projects. 

61
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Currency Mix of Group Debt
Where businesses have foreign currency 
denominated income, borrowings in 
foreign currency are obtained to optimise 
on the comparatively lower cost of 
foreign currency debt. This strategy has 
been practiced in the Leisure industry 
group, in particular, where foreign 
currency receipts are regularly monitored 
to proactively evaluate the borrowing 
capacity of the business. Currently, 
~Rs.137.51 billion of overall debt is 
denominated in foreign currency, which 
translates to ~62% of total debt [2022/23: 
~65%]. 
In terms of foreign currency debt of 
the Group, the Leisure industry group 
comprises of the USD 219 million term 
loan obtained by WPL (final repayment 
in December 2026 with a significant 
bullet payment at the end), whilst the 
Holding Company includes the USD 
175 million term loan obtained from the 
IFC (final repayment in June 2030 with 
equal installments commencing from 
December 2024 onwards). 
However, the Group is mindful of the 
impact of foreign currency volatility, and 
will continue to adopt prudent measures, 
as and when required, to manage the 
financial impacts arising from currency 
fluctuations. The exposure on the loan at 
WPL arises due to the Group's decision to 
shift the functional reporting currency of 
the project entity to Sri Lankan Rupees, as 
disclosed during the year. However, the 
translation risk is/will be largely hedged 
'naturally' as a result of the conscious 
strategy of matching liabilities against 
foreign currency denominated assets and 
revenue streams, to the extent possible. 
The exposure at WPL will continue till 
such time operations commence and 
ramp up at the 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka', 
whereas the Group already has a 'natural 
hedge' in its current operations in the 
rest of the Leisure portfolio. Similarly, as 
at present, there is no foreign exchange 
translation risk on the IFC loan since the 
cash is retained in foreign currency at the 
Holding Company.
Applicable time 
horizon (years)
≤ 1
1-2
2-3
3-4
4-5
>5
Total
Debt Service*  
(Rs.million)
2024/25 2025/26 2026/27 2027/28 2028/29 2029/30 
onwards
Group
34,199 
34,378
76,589 
13,222 
11,389 
15,335 185,113
Holding Company
10,646 
16,203 
13,024 
11,834 
10,511 
14,590 
76,809 
INSIGHTS
Maturity Analysis of Group Debt
In addition to the focus on the capital structure, which entails understanding the optimal level of 
debt financing and equity financing across the Group, emphasis is also placed on the dynamics 
of the debt structure, including the tenure and nature of facilities, among other factors.   
The maturity profile of the Group's debt as at 31 March 2024, based on debt service (principal 
plus interest) on interest-bearing loans and borrowings, is illustrated below. 
Apart from the analysis of the long-term debt, the following should be noted in the context of 
the total debt of the Group.
	y
Short-term borrowings stood at Rs.21.06 billion and bank overdrafts at Rs.32.45 billion, 
which are primarily working capital and trade finance facilities which are payable within 
one year. A majority of such facilities are revolving working capital debt and is continually 
repaid and re-borrowed, subject to fluctuations on operating volumes and seasonality.  
	y
The residual portion of the Group's debt is attributable to interest-bearing loans and 
borrowings. The capital repayment and associated interest attributable to interest-bearing 
loans and borrowings is spread out across the medium to long-term, thereby ensuring that 
operational cash flows would suffice in meeting such requirements. 
0
20
40
60
80
100
Composition
(%)
Composition
(%)
Payments (principal and interest)
on interest bearing borrowings
(Rs.billion)
Payments (principal and interest)
on interest bearing borrowings
(Rs.billion)
FY25
FY26
FY27
FY28
FY29
FY30
onwards
Leisure
Holding Company
Retail
All other industry groups
Total (Rs.billion)
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
The following should be noted with regard to the illustration above: 
1.	 Interest bearing borrowings do not include the convertible debentures issued in August 
2022. The liability component amounting to Rs.10.20 billion is recognised under Non-Current 
Financial Liabilities. In the event the debenture is not converted during the conversion 
window, since a portion of debentures were already converted, an obligation for Rs.12.76 
billion will materialise in August 2025.
2.	 The USD 219 million term loan facility at WPL, captured under Leisure, falls due for 
repayment in December 2026. Based on the structuring of the loan, ~75% of the loan is due 
for repayment in the final year where the intention and strategy would be to refinance a 
component at that juncture. 
3.	 The USD 175 million term loan from the IFC, captured under the Holding Company, post the 
four-year grace period, falls due for repayment in equally amortising capital repayments over a 
period of six years from December 2024 onwards. 
*Interest-bearing loans and borrowings: principal plus interest payments 
Note: The notable increase in contractual undiscounted (principal plus interest) payments in 2026/27 is in lieu of 
the USD 219 million term loan facility at WPL, captured under Leisure, which falls due for repayment in December 
2026.

62 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
FINANCIAL CAPITAL REVIEW
Statement of Changes in Equity 
Total equity of the Group as at 31 March 2024 stood at Rs.377.48 billion 
[2022/23: Rs.360.42 billion]. 
The key impacts stemmed from:  
   CASH AND LIQUIDITY MANAGEMENT
The Group remained steadfast in its commitment to have robust 
cash and liquidity management practices and continued to evaluate 
its resilience under various stress-tested scenarios. Building upon 
the foundation and practices laid during the recent years, the Group 
prioritises agility in the operating model, with a focused view on cash 
management and liquidity, even in times of stability.  
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Group cash and cash equivalents as at 31 March 2024 stood at Rs.95.45 
billion against Rs.107.31 billion in 2022/23. Group cash and cash 
equivalents comprises of: 
	y
Cash in hand and at bank amounting to Rs.15.42 billion.  
	y
Short-term investments amounting to Rs.80.03 billion. It is pertinent 
to note that short-term investments include the life fund at UA which 
amounts to Rs.4.97 billion and the restricted regulatory fund at UA 
which amounts to Rs.3.38 billion. For the purposes of computing net 
debt, the life fund and the restricted regulatory fund at UA has been 
eliminated.
The primary impacts on Group cash and cash equivalents stem from:
	y
A reduction in the Group's USD cash holdings, stemming from 
investments towards projects such as 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka' and 
the West Container Terminal -1. 
	y
Funds earmarked for debt service at 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka' was 
utilised, as envisaged, reducing the cash holdings in the Property 
industry group. Further to the transition of the assets of the hotel, 
retail and entertainment components of the project to the Leisure 
industry group in 2022/23, the residual cash designated for the 
project captured under the Property industry group, was also 
transferred to the Leisure business.    
Group profit after tax amounting to Rs.12.13 billion during the 
year under review.
Conversion of debentures amounting to Rs.11.20 billion, 
transferred from other non-current financial liabilities.
Partly offset by a Rs.4.06 billion decrease in other comprehensive 
income, primarily owing to a Rs.12.95 billion loss stemming 
from the exchange translation impact which was partly offset 
by a Rs.6.02 billion fair value gain on debt financial instruments 
stemming from UA's investment portfolio.
For a discussion on the ROCE and ROE of the Group, refer 'Strategy, Resource 
Allocation and Portfolio Management'. 
In terms of the composition of the liquid assets of the Group, Other, 
including Information Technology and Plantation Services accounted for 
71% of cash and cash equivalents, of which a majority of assets are in the 
Holding Company, followed by the Financial Services industry group.
Working Capital/Liquidity
Rs.million
2023/24
2022/23
%
Current assets
174,110
182,806
(5)
Current liabilities
132,138
90,709
46
Working capital
  41,972
 92,097 
(54)
Current Assets: The reduction in current assets is primarily driven by a 
decrease in cash in hand and at bank and short-term investments, as 
explained under Group Assets. 
Current Liabilities: Current liabilities recorded a 46% increase, primarily 
owing to increase in trade and other payables by Rs.12.72 billion,  
short-term borrowings by Rs.12.36 billion, and the current portion of 
interest-bearing loans and borrowings by Rs.10.38 billion.
Cash Flow 
Cash and cash equivalents in the Statement of Cash Flows comprise of 
cash and short-term investments with a maturity of three months or 
less, and net of outstanding bank overdrafts. On this basis, as at 31 March 
2024, cash and cash equivalents decreased by Rs.30.37 billion, to  
Rs.9.94 billion.
	y
Net cash flow from operating activities reflected an inflow of Rs.32.75 
billion for 2023/24, primarily on account of cash generation from 
operations. 
	y
Net cash flow from investment activities reflected an outflow 
of Rs.60.08 billion, primarily due to purchases of property, plant 
and equipment (stemming from 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka', 
investments by the Supermarket business and the Beverages and 
Frozen Confectionery businesses as outlined earlier), purchase of 
Government securities in the Life Insurance business as part of the 
fund portfolio and investments in equity accounted investees.
	y
Net cash from financing activities was an outflow of Rs.5.04 billion, 
primarily on account of the repayment of long-term borrowings 
across Group businesses, as outlined in detail in the Industry Group 
Review.
Rs.million
2023/24
2022/23
Current ratio 	
	
(times)
 1.32 
 2.02 
Quick ratio 	
	
(times)
 1.02 
 1.58 
Working capital 	
	
(Rs.million)
 41,972
 92,097

NATURAL CAPITAL REVIEW
Carbon footprint
117,591 MT
FY23 101,584 MT
Energy used
964,266 GJ
FY23 876,824 GJ
Water withdrawn
2,221 ML
FY23 2018 ML
Waste generated
9,581 MT
FY23 8,280 MT
The Group has an extensive environmental management framework in place to integrate sustainable 
practices into its business operations. The Group has focused on material areas and integrated various 
initiatives into the business processes to address any negative impacts, while achieving environmental, 
social, and economic benefits. The discussion on Natural Capital comprises of two parts:
(1)	A performance analysis of main focus areas under Natural Capital and details of efforts during 
the year under review, to keep the Group's operations resilient to environmental risks while 
adopting environment and climate-positive action across the business. 
(2)	The Group's approach to managing its environmental impacts. 
Key highlights on focus areas under Natural Capital
Key Highlights of the Year:
	y
'Good Water' was initiated by the Group to address water 
pollution resulting from the improper disposal of non-
biodegradable waste.
	y
~14% of the Group's total energy requirement was met 
through renewable energy sources.
	y
39.7 MT of recyclable plastic waste (equivalent to 
~1,191,000 polyethylene terephthalate (PET) bottles) was 
channelled to responsible recycling and repurposing 
under the 'Plasticcycle' initiative.
Industry Group-Wise Highlights of Initiatives
Consumer Foods
	y
Implemented the ISO 50001:2018, Energy Management 
System at CCS.
Leisure
	y
'Cinnamon' hotels in Sri Lanka and the Maldives 
successfully reduced guest facing single-use plastics by 
~20.8% through the implementation of alternatives.
	y
John Keells Foundation, completed the three-year 
collaboration with Ruk Rakaganno and the Forest 
Department of Sri Lanka, on the 'Cinnamon Rainforest 
Restoration Project'. 'Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts' will 
continue to oversee progress moving forward.
Retail
	y
20% of the Retail industry group's total energy requirement is 
powered through rooftop solar panels, installed in 13 outlets, 
bringing the total solar powered outlet count to 107 from 
133 outlets.
Property
	y
Energy usage in common areas of the 'Crescat Boulevard' 
Mall was optimised through the design and modification of 
the HVAC system, saving 68,524 kWh per month on average.
Financial Services
	y
Power-saving equipment was introduced for outdoor 
air conditioner units at branches with high energy 
consumption.
Other, including Information Technology and Plantation 
Services
	y
Enhancing the sustainable agriculture of 44 green leaf 
suppliers by supplying 18,950 tea plants for 28 acres.
SDG's Impacted 
through Initiatives:
Clean Water and 
Sanitation
Ensure availability and 
sustainable management of 
water and sanitation for all.
Affordable and 
Clean Energy
Continuing to increase the 
amount of renewable energy 
utilised and generated in the 
Group's energy mix.
Responsible 
Consumption and 
Production
Encouraging reuse and 
recycling of waste alongside 
responsible waste disposal.
Climate Action
Monitoring and managing 
the Group's carbon footprint 
through adopting alternatives 
to fossil fuels, where possible
Life Below Water
Conservation of biodiversity 
and preservation of marine 
habitats
Note: The above initiatives disclosed are based on materiality. The Transportation industry group continued its 
environmental initiatives during the year.
Focus Areas:
The Group determines its environmental 
focus areas via a comprehensive materiality 
assessment process. Clear objectives were 
established within industry groups, aligning 
with the material significance of each focus area. 
Pivotal industry group-specific indicators 
undergo benchmarking against globally 
recognised standards, with quarterly 
monitoring of performance relative to these 
benchmarks.  
  Energy Management 
Page 64
  Water and Effluents Management  
Page 67
  Waste Management 
Page 69
  Biodiversity 
Page 72
Focus Areas
“Clear targets for 
reducing energy usage 
and increasing renewable 
energy adoption were set 
within energy-intensive 
sectors, aiding the Group 
in effectively managing its 
environmental footprint.”
63
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information

64 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
CCS*
0.14
0.15
0.60
0.65
1.25
1.47
CICL*
KFP**
FY23
FY24
Consumer Foods
Consumer Foods
(*kWh per liter produced / **kWh per kg produced)
(*kWh per liter produced / **kWh per kg produced)
Leisure
Leisure
(kWh per guest night)
(kWh per guest night)
Colombo Hotels
88.97
63.65
45.77
50.22
50.77
36.24
6.43
3.97
Sri Lankan Resorts
Maldivian Resorts
Destination
Management
FY23
FY24
64 
   ENERGY MANAGEMENT
Energy management, conservation, and transitioning to alternative and 
renewable energy sources continues to be key priorities for the Group. 
Clear targets for reducing energy usage and increasing renewable 
energy adoption were set within energy-intensive sectors, aiding the 
Group in effectively managing its environmental footprint. The Group 
maintains its commitment to invest more in renewable energy as a key 
focus area.
Group and industry group-wide performance comparison:
Group performance
2023/24
2022/23*
2021/22
Energy consumption: non-
renewable sources (GJ)
358,933
352,771
301,172
Energy consumption: renewable 
sources (GJ)
124,455
122,568
127,825
Renewable Energy Sold (GJ)
1,702
2,167
-
Purchased energy: national grid 
(GJ)
480,878
399,319
390,654
Total energy consumption 
within the organisation (GJ)
964,266
874,657
819,651
Total energy consumption (GJ) 
per Rs.million of revenue within 
the organisation
3.44
3.16
4.49
Note: Energy consumption includes Diesel, Petrol, Furnace Oil, Other types of oil and 
LP gas as non-renewable energy sources and Solar and Biomass as Renewable energy 
sources. 
*2022/23 has been restated
Rooftop Solar Installation at 'Cinnamon Hotel & Resorts'
JMSL
44.03
51.18
5.41
7.06
1.11
1.12
JKOA
LPI
FY23
FY24
Retail
Retail
(kWh per sq. ft. of outlet area)
(kWh per sq. ft. of outlet area)
Transportation
Transportation
(*kWh per ﬂying hour ⁄ **kWh per MT sold / ***kWh per sq. ft. of warehouse managed)
(*kWh per ﬂying hour ⁄ **kWh per MT sold / ***kWh per sq. ft. of warehouse managed)
LMS*
1.40
47.56
1.27
27.14
0.13
0.11
Cinnamon Air**
JKLL***
FY23
FY24
Plantation Services
Plantation Services
(*kWh per Kg Produced /**kWh per sq. ft. of warehouse manage)
(*kWh per Kg Produced /**kWh per sq. ft. of warehouse manage)
**JKW
0.96
9.95
0.63
9.38
2.73
2.57
**JKL
*TSFL
FY23
FY24
Energy consumption per operational intensity factor  
in applicable* industry groups
*Based on materiality, energy consumption within the Property, Financial 
Services and Other, including Information Technology and Plantation Services 
industry groups are not material.
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
Energy Consumption by Industry Group  
Energy Consumption by Industry Group  
(GJ ’000)
(GJ ’000)
Transportation 
Leisure
Retail
Consumer
Foods
Property
Financial
Services
Other, incl.
Information
Technology
& Plantation Services 
FY22
FY23
FY24
NATURAL CAPITAL REVIEW

65
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Carbon Footprint
The primary source of the Group's carbon emissions was electricity 
obtained from the national grid, with diesel, furnace oil, liquefied 
petroleum gas (LPG), petrol, and jet fuel also accounting for a notable 
portion. The increase in carbon emissions was a result of increased 
operational activities within the Leisure and Retail industry groups. 
The Group currently measures the carbon footprint only for the scope 1 
and scope 2 emissions across the industry groups. 
2023/24 Carbon Footprint Goals, Initiatives and Progress
Consumer Foods
Goal
Status
Progress
To reduce the carbon footprint of 
KFP by reducing the scope 1 and 
2 carbon emissions by 1% 
26%
Note: In arriving at the status for the year for the indicators, the absolute variation 
against the base year has been calibrated to reflect the level of activity in the baseline 
year, for a like comparison. The Status disclosed above is reported independently by 
each year against the goal of the baseline year.
16%
increase in carbon 
footprint
13%
increase in emission intensity 
per Rs.milllion of revenue
Group and industry group-wide performance comparison:
Group performance
2023/24
2022/23*
2021/22
Direct greenhouse gas 
emissions - Scope 1 (MT)
26,545
25,979
27,507
Indirect greenhouse gas 
emissions - Scope 2 (MT)
91,046
75,604
71,188
Total carbon footprint (MT)
117,591
101,584
98,695
Total carbon footprint (MT) per 
Rs.million of revenue*
0.42
0.37
0.53
Greenhouse gas emissions from 
combustion of biomass (MT)
7153
8,050
9,172
*2022/23 has been restated, *In the carbon footprint/revenue includes direct and 
indirect GHG emissions
Energy Efficiency
The Group reported a 5% increase in energy consumption due to increased 
levels of operational activity in the Retail and Leisure industry groups.
2023/24 Energy Reduction Goals, Initiatives and Progress
Consumer Foods 
	y
CCS installed 160kW Variable Frequency Drive (VFD) to Mycom Chiller 
contributing to an energy saving of 33,800kWh on average per year.
Goal
Status
Progress
CCS	 :	 -1.5% 
	
-1%
KFP	 :	 -1.5% 
	
57%
CICL	:	
-2% 
	
6%
All goals are either on a per l/m3 or per kg basis.
Steam
Goal
Status
Progress
CCS	 :	-1.5% 
-24%
Leisure
	y
Installation of new solar street lights to reduce energy usage. 
	y
Energy saved through the installation of variable speed drives for 
chilled water pumps and reverse osmosis plants.
	y
Saving 1.2 million in energy costs by controlling set point 
temperatures of the chillers.
Goal
Status
Progress
Leisure :	 -4% 
8%
Transportation
Goal
Status
Progress
JKLL Seeduwa and Enderamulla 
Warehouses : 10% 
-3%
Other initiatives:
Plantation Services:
	y
Installed light weight metal Michie sifters for five tea sieving 
machines resulting of a 1413Kwh/annual saving.
Note: In arriving at the status for the year for the indicators, the absolute variation 
against the base year has been calibrated to reflect the level of activity in the baseline 
year, for a like comparison. The status disclosed above is reported independently by 
each year against the goal of the baseline year.
1,041 GJ
of energy saved through 
initiatives
8.8%
increase in energy intensity 
per Rs.milllion of revenue
0
10
20
30
40
50
Carbon Footprint by Industry Group  
Carbon Footprint by Industry Group  
(CO MT '000)
(CO MT '000)
Transportation 
Leisure
Retail
Consumer
Foods
Property
Financial
Services
Other, incl.
Information
Technology
& Plantation Services 
FY22
FY23
FY24

66 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
NATURAL CAPITAL REVIEW
JMSL*
23.68
28.19
9.00
0.76
10.31
0.77
JKOA**
LPI
FY23
FY24
Retail
Retail
(*CO kg per sq. ft. outlet area / **CO kg per sq ft of office space)
(*CO kg per sq. ft. outlet area / **CO kg per sq ft of office space)
Leisure
Leisure
(*CO kg per guest night ⁄ **CO kg per client serviced)
(*CO kg per guest night ⁄ **CO kg per client serviced)
Colombo Hotels*
73.47
51.75
35.63
26.23
36.09
40.22
4.91
5.51
Sri Lankan Resorts*
Maldivian Resorts*
Destination
Management**
FY23
FY24
CCS*
0.10
0.11
0.50
0.53
0.98
1.20
CICL*
KFP**
FY23
FY24
Consumer Foods
Consumer Foods
(*CO kg per liter produced / **CO kg per kg of processed meat produced)
(*CO kg per liter produced / **CO kg per kg of processed meat produced)
Transportation
Transportation
(*CO kg per MT of bunkers sold ⁄ **CO kg per flight hour ⁄ ***CO kg per sq of warehouse managed)
(*CO kg per MT of bunkers sold ⁄ **CO kg per flight hour ⁄ ***CO kg per sq of warehouse managed)
LMS*
10.67
3,661.90
8.71
3,566.81
2.24
1.93
Cinnamon Air**
JKLL***
FY23
FY24
Carbon footprint scope 1 and 2 per operational intensity 
factor in applicable* industry groups
*Based on materiality. Carbon footprint within the Property, Financial Services 
and Other, including Information Technology and Plantation Services industry 
groups are not material.
Emissions of ozone depleting substances
The Group consistently tracks and monitors ozone depletion substances 
across various sectors, providing quarterly tracking and reporting to 
business units. The increase in ozone depletion substances was a result of 
increased operational activities within the Consumer Foods industry group.
0.6
0.95
1.22
0.05
0.07
0.02
0.69
3.37
1.13
0.10
0.03
0.01
0.07
0.01
1.67
FY23
FY24
Emissions of Ozone depleting Substances in Consumer Foods
Industry Group
Emissions of Ozone depleting Substances in Consumer Foods
Industry Group
(Kg)
(Kg)
R22
R404
R407
R410
R134A
Acetelyn
Ammonia (NH3)
Nitrogen
0.012
0.28
0.3
0.35
0.31
0.24
0.06
0.05
0.16
0.34
0.14
0.06
0.18
FY23
FY24
(Kg)
(Kg)
R12
R22
R404
R407
R410
R134A
Acetelyn
Ammonia (NH3)
Nitrogen
Emissions of Ozone depleting Substances in Leisure
Industry Group
Emissions of Ozone depleting Substances in Leisure
Industry Group
0.29
0.12
0.01
0.01
0.01
0.02
0.02
0.06
0.07
FY23
(Kg)
(Kg)
R12
R22
R404
R410
Acetelyn
Nitrogen
FY24
Emissions of Ozone depleting Substances in Property
Industry Group
Emissions of Ozone depleting Substances in Property
Industry Group
FY23
FY24
(Kg)
(Kg)
R22
R404
R410
R134A
0.14
0.35
0.15
0.90
0.38
0.08
0.94
Emissions of Ozone depleting Substances in Retail
Industry Group
Emissions of Ozone depleting Substances in Retail
Industry Group
Emissions of ozone depleting substances

67
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
  WATER AND EFFLUENTS MANAGEMENT 
Water management is a key priority for the Group with ongoing 
monitoring and strategic initiatives executed to meet targeted goals in 
water usage optimisation. Water serves as a critical resource utilised across 
all business units within the Group. It plays a pivotal role in manufacturing 
processes within the Consumer Foods industry group, while also 
being essential for operations in the Retail and Leisure industry groups. 
Additionally, water is consumed by employees across all business units, 
highlighting its widespread importance throughout the organisation. 
Water is withdrawn for its various operations from surface water, ground 
water and third parties. Some of the business units are currently assessing 
desalination options as well in some of the water stress areas of the 
country. The Group is committed to recycling water whenever feasible and 
ensures the treatment of wastewater prior to its release. 
Group and industry group-wide performance comparison:
Group performance
2023/24
2022/23*
2021/22
Water withdrawal (ML)
2,221.49
2,032.01
1,843.259
Water withdrawal (m3) per 
Rs.million of revenue
7.92
7.35
10.10
Water discharge (ML)
1,130.02
1,297.37
1,305.676
Water Consumption (ML)
1,091.47
734.67
537.5829
*2022/23 has been restated.
Water Withdrawal
Renewable Energy
The Group continued to drive investments in renewable energy to 
reduce its dependency on fossil fuels and reliance on the national power 
grid. Renewable energy sources such as solar power and biomass are 
utilised to the extent possible, especially in businesses with energy-
intensive operations. 
Fast Drying Firewood shed - Broadlands Tea Factory
2023/24 Renewable Energy Goals, Initiatives and Progress
Retail  
	y
13 'Keells' outlets installed solar panels during the year, increasing the 
total number of outlets using renewable energy to 107 outlets. The 
renewable energy generated constituted ~20% of its total energy 
requirements.
Goal
Status
Progress
Solar photovoltaic (PV) energy 
generation across the outlets: 
+125% 
95%
Other Initiatives
Consumer Foods
	y
CCS installed PV panels which generated 209,728kWh of energy 
annually and which contribute to its warehouse energy.
	y
KFP installed solar panels in collaboration with a third-party investor, 
which generated 314,640kWh of energy on average per year.
Leisure
	y
'Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts' generated renewable energy in the form 
of solar power. 
	y
Walkers Tours continued to maintain a carbon neutral certified fleet 
by prioritising hybrid and electric vehicles to the extent possible in its 
operations. Additionally, the company invests in renewable energy 
projects to effectively counterbalance any emissions produced by  
its fleet.
Plantation
	y
Tea Smallholder Factories generates renewable energy through the 
use of biomass and solar power which produces an average of 72,000 
kWh of energy annually.
124,455 GJ
of renewable energy
13%
of energy generated through 
renewable energy sources
0
200
400
600
800
1,000
1,200
Water Withdrawn by Industry Group
Water Withdrawn by Industry Group
(m3 '000)
(m3 '000)
Transportation 
Leisure
Retail
Consumer
Foods
Property
Financial
Services
Other, incl.
Information
Technology
& Plantation Services 
FY22
FY23
FY24
1,103.492
121.323
196.811
799.804
(ML)
Water Withdrawal by Source
Surface water  
Ground water 
Sea water 
Third party 
water-municipality 
 123.96
 2,097.53
(ML)
Water Withdrawal by type
Total fresh water 
Total other water 

68 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
NATURAL CAPITAL REVIEW
Water Efficiency 
The Group consistently monitors and evaluates water consumption 
across various industry groups, providing quarterly tracking and 
reporting on usage and intensity metrics to business units. These 
parameters are compared against EarthCheck benchmarks where 
applicable, ensuring alignment with industry standards and best 
practice. The Group reported a 5% increase in water withdrawal, driven 
by increased operational activities within the Leisure industry group. 
Effluent Treatment and Discharge 
The Group adheres to regulatory standards concerning effluent 
treatment and discharge procedures, ensuring compliance of the 
discharge of water into the environment, as stipulated by environmental 
protection licenses (EPL) or that stipulated by the BOI (Board of 
Investments) for entities operating in the BOI zones.
JMSL
198.64
176.03
80.15
93.27
11.09
14.1
JKOA
LPI
FY23
FY24
Retail 
Retail 
(Liters per sq. ft. of outlet area)
(Liters per sq. ft. of outlet area)
Leisure
Leisure
(Liters per guest night)
(Liters per guest night)
Colombo Hotels*
1,638.80
1,156.25
1,525.52
1,173.87
700.05
691.52
Sri Lankan Resorts*
Maldivian Resorts*
FY23
FY24
CCS*
3.82
4.52
6.83
7.51
20.81
21.93
CICL*
KFP**
FY23
FY24
Consumer Foods
Consumer Foods
(*Liters  per liter produced / **Liters per kg of processed meat produced)
(*Liters  per liter produced / **Liters per kg of processed meat produced)
Water withdrawal per operational intensity factor in 
applicable* industry groups
*Based on materiality, water consumption within the Transportation, 
Property, Financial Services and Other, including Information Technology and 
Plantation Services industry groups are not material.
2023/24 Water and Effluent Management Goals, initiatives and Progress
Consumer Foods
Goal
Status
Progress
CCS	 :	 -1.3% 
	
-7%
KFP	 :	 -1.5% 
	
63%
CICL	:	
-2% 
	
7%
All goals are either on a per l/m3 or per kg basis.
Leisure
	y
'Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts' installed low flow rate faucets and 
shower heads in guest rooms, staff quarters and public areas.
	y
Rainwater harvesting was continued in 'Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts' 
in hotels where the facilities were installed.
	y
'Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts' continued their practice of treating 
wastewater on-site, through aerated system sewage treatment plants, 
reverse osmosis plants, and effluent treatment plants across operational 
sites. The treated water was thereafter utilised for gardening purposes 
within the hotel properties and to replenish the ground water.
Goal
Status
Progress
CCS	 :	-1.3% 
6%
Other Initiatives
Plantation Services 
	y
Engaged in rainwater harvesting and used the harvested water for 
general cleaning purposes of the factories.
Note: In arriving at the status for the year for the indicators, the absolute variation 
against the base year has been calibrated to reflect the level of activity in the baseline 
year, for a like comparison. The status disclosed above is reported independently by 
each year against the goal of the baseline year 2018/19.
8.6%
water intensity per Rs.milllion 
of revenue
51%
water recycled
 209.79
581.92 
9.58
137.62
191.11
(ML)
Water Discharge by Method
Surface water
Ground water
Sea
Third party: municipality
Third party: provided to
another organisation
 821.46
 13.52
 
 
(ML)
Water Dishcarge by Category
Discharge of freshwater 
Discharge of other water 

69
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
   WASTE MANAGEMENT 
The Group's waste management approach follows best practice and 
guidelines to responsibly manage waste generated. Waste segregation 
procedures are followed across all businesses, and efforts are made to 
explore alternative disposal methods to divert waste away from landfills 
wherever possible. Continuous process evaluations are conducted to 
minimise waste generated through its operations, complemented by 
the introduction of various initiatives aimed at recycling and disposing 
waste responsibly. Considerable emphasis is also placed on material 
substitution efforts to reduce the usage of plastic and consumer waste 
generation, alongside efforts to reduce waste volumes through multiple 
process efficiency initiatives.
2 Ocean 
Strainers Setup
Rs 1.16 million
Pilot Invested
2,197kg
Waste diverted
Purpose: The John Keells 'Good Water' initiative was launched with 
the aim of minimising the pollution of waterways due to improper 
disposal of non-biodegradable waste. 
Employs a multifaceted approach, incorporating projects focused on, 
reactive, preventive, proactive measures.
Phase 1: Mitigating pollution in strategically significant waterways for 
the Group
The improper disposal of polyethylene, plastic, and other non-
biodegradable waste near beaches and inland waterways has a 
significant impact on the beaches and the surrounding areas of hotels 
adjacent to these water bodies. To prevent disruptions to operations 
and ensure that guests can enjoy the beaches, multiple beach cleanups 
would be required daily.
The debris washed ashore comprises ocean waste as well as waste 
originating from inland waterways that finds its way into the ocean. To 
prevent inland waterway waste from reaching the ocean, the Group 
implemented measures to divert it. 
On the 4th of July, two pilot initiatives were launched, leveraging 
the Group's internal programmes such as 'Gunadamin' by CCS 
and 'Plasticcycle', in collaboration with the private foundations, 
representation from local municipalities, and the local Government, 
other private organisations. These collaborations were formalised 
through the signing of multiple Memorandums of Understanding 
(MOUs).
Collaborating with the MAS Foundation for Change, the Group installed 
'Ocean Strainers,' floating barriers designed to effectively redirect 
floating waste away from entering the ocean via inland waterways. 
Importantly, these strainers operate without disrupting underwater life 
or eco-systems beneath the surface.
1.	 'Mawakada' canal adjacent to 'Hikka Tranz by Cinnamon'
2.	 'Dunkolage waththa' canal adjacent to 'Cinnamon Bentota Beach'
Substantial improvements were observed on the beaches in these 
areas, which had a positive ripple effect on other small businesses 
located along the same shoreline. The next phase for these locations 
involves engaging the local community to develop mitigation strategies 
aimed at preventing waste from entering the inland waterways.
Efforts are currently in progress to identify additional strategic locations 
within the Group that require interventions aligned with the objectives 
of this initiative.
The John Keells Group 'GOOD WATER' Initiative
Strainer at 'Maawakada' Canal -Hikkaduwa
Group and industry group-wide performance comparison:
Group performance
2023/24
2022/23*
2021/22
Volume of hazardous waste 
generated (MT)
365.42
314.26
337.81
Volume of non-hazardous waste 
generated (MT)
9216.44
7992.67
7855.24
Non-hazardous waste recycled/
reused by Group companies and 
through third party contractors (%)
56.00
46.00
32.00
Total Waste generation (MT)
9581.86
8280.81
8193.05
Total waste diverted from 
disposal (MT)
5329.35
3815.37
2607.87
Total waste directed to disposal (MT)
4252.51
4491.56
5585.18
*2022/23 has been restated
56%
of total non-hazardous waste either recycled or reused by Group 
companies and through third party contractors.
0
1,000
2,000
3,000
4,000
5,000
Waste Generated by Industry Group
Waste Generated by Industry Group
(MT '000)
(MT '000)
Transportation 
FY22
Leisure
Retail
Consumer
Foods
Property
Financial
Services
FY23
FY24
Other, incl.
Information
Technology
& Plantation Services 
1,453.57
84.43
1.73
2.12
258.39
 655.81
281.06
336.90
6,381.83
(MT)
Waste by Composition 
Organic
Paper/carboard
Plastic/ polythene 
e-waste
Hazardous metal 
Non-hazardous metal 
Glass/ceramic 
Other hazardous 
Other non-hazardous

70 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
NATURAL CAPITAL REVIEW
2023/24 Waste Reduction and Plastic Reduction Goals, initiatives  
and Progress
Retail
	y
Launched a food waste reduction initiative by redistributing excess 
prepared food to deserving individuals and communities during lunch 
and dinner slots resulting in over 140,000 kg distributed monthly.
	y
Minimised waste at collection centres by maximising crop utilisation, 
thereby supporting farmers and passing on cost savings to 
customers.
	y
The Supermarket business continued the green bag initiative to 
minimise the use of polythene bags by providing eco-friendly 
reusable bags and encouraging re-use. 
	y
Customers were encouraged through various reward schemes to 
bring their own containers (BYOC) and eco-friendly reusable bags to 
minimise the use of polythene bags.
	y
Introduced compostable bags at fish, meat, fruit, and vegetable 
counters, promoting sustainable packaging solutions.
	y
Trash2Cash machines, located at 10 outlets, collected ~1,000 kg of 
plastic waste per month, promoting recycling.
	y
Project aimed at recycling Plastic Point of Sale Materials (POSM) initiated 
by the Supermarket business contributed to waste reduction efforts.
	y
Achieved a 22% reduction in shrink wrap usage across the 
Distribution Centres of the Supermarket business through the 
implementation of a safety belt.
Goal
Status
Progress
Usage of single-use1 polythene 
bags at 'Keells' outlets by 2024/25: 	
-50% 
	
-30%
Usage of single use packaging 
for fresh food by ensuring they 
are reusable, recyclable, or 
compostable by 2024/25: -50% 
	
-30%
Consumer Foods
	y
Expanded its plastic collection project to diversify into managing 
other waste types, such as e-waste, as a crucial step towards holistic 
environmental stewardship.
	y
Increased the volume of plastic recycled through more 'material 
recovery facilities'.
Goal
Status
Progress
CCS	 :	-1.5% 
3%
Leisure
	y
Implementation of the NORDAQ water bottling plant at 'Cinnamon 
Grand Colombo' and 'Cinnamon Bentota Beach' has successfully 
reduced plastic waste generation by ~200 kg per month.
	y
Reduced 20.8% the consumption of guest facing single-use plastic. 
Goal
Status
Progress
Single-use plastic : -50% 
-38%
Property
Goal
Status
Progress
RHL: Reduce waste to landfill against 
the 2018/19 baseline : -80% 
-100%
1 Usage of single-use packaging for fresh food by ensuring they are reusable, recyclable, 
or compostable by 2024/25. In arriving at the status for the year for the indicators, 
the absolute variation against the base year has been calibrated to reflect the level of 
activity in the baseline year, for a like comparison. The status disclosed above is reported 
independently by each year against the goal of the baseline year.
14%
increase in waste intensity per 
Rs.milllion of revenue
56%
waste reused/recycled
JMSL
2.38
2.93
0.09
0.09
JKOA
LPI
FY23
FY24
Retail
Retail
(kg per sq. ft. of outlet area)
(kg per sq. ft. of outlet area)
Leisure
Leisure
(Waste generated kg per guest night)
(Waste generated kg per guest night)
Colombo Hotels
3.43
2.67
1.75
1.10
5.00
5.35
Sri Lankan Resorts
Maldivian Resorts
FY23
FY24
CCS*
0.01
0.01
0.02
0.01
0.14
0.17
CICL*
KFP**
FY23
FY24
Consumer Foods
Consumer Foods
(*kg per liter produced / **kg per kg of processed meat produced)
(*kg per liter produced / **kg per kg of processed meat produced)
Transportation
Transportation
(*kg per MT of bunkers sold / **kg per sq. ft. of warehouse managed)
(*kg per MT of bunkers sold / **kg per sq. ft. of warehouse managed)
LMS*
0.43
0.70
0.1
0.1
JKLL**
FY23
FY24
Waste generated per operational intensity factor 
in applicable* industry groups

71
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Note: In waste disposal, it includes both waste diverted from disposal and waste 
directed to disposal
“Clear targets for reducing energy usage 
and increasing renewable energy adoption 
were set within energy-intensive sectors, 
aiding the Group in effectively managing its 
environmental footprint.”
3,330.21
3,212.39
859.50
1,217.96
348.24
69.00
179.13
(MT)
Non-hazardous Waste Disposal by Method
Reuse
Recycling
Composting
Recovery
Incineration
Deep well injection
Landﬁll
 0.92 
 1.21 
 0.27 
 362.61 
(MT)
Hazardous Waste Disposal by Method
Reuse
Recycling
Landﬁll
On-Site storage
	 Zero single-use plastic consumption
'Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts' (CH&R) have implemented 
measures, both in Sri Lanka and the Maldives, to gradually 
eliminate single-use plastic consumption in operations. 
Alternatives to plastic has been introduced to staff and guests. 
Through the implementation of various initiatives, 'Cinnamon 
Hotels and Resorts' have successfully reduced single-use plastic 
consumption by 20.8% compared to the baseline year of 
2021/22.
	y
Introduced reusable water bottles to the executive staff as an 
alternative for PET bottles.
	y
Wet wipes and polythene laundry bags were replaced with 
paper towels and reusable cloth bags.
	y
Plastic amenity bottles, butter and jam sachets and cutlery 
were replaced with reusable ceramic, glass and wooden 
alternatives.
	 Reduce usage of stretch film
The Stretch Film Cost Reduction Project at CICL was initiated 
with the aim of reducing the environmental impact associated to 
stretch film usage. 
	y
As the first phase, a reusable belt was used to pack and secure 
boxes on pallets in warehouses reducing the usage of stretch film. 
Expects to prevent 326 per month of stretch film from being 
disposed to the environment.
	
Transitioning from PET to Glass Bottles in Hotel 
Operations
'Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts' installed a state-of-the-art NORDAQ 
water bottling plant, enabling the production and refilling of 
glass water bottles, thereby eliminating the use of single-use 
plastic bottles in guest rooms 
	y
Water dispensers are strategically positioned to provide 
guests and staff with convenient access to filtered water, 
further reducing plastic consumption and promoting 
environmental responsibility.
	y
Two pilots are currently in-progress at 'Cinnamon Bentota 
Beach' and 'Cinnamon Grand Colombo'. Compared to base year, 
reduction of plastic bottle waste generation per month was,
•	 'Cinnamon Grand Colombo': 48.23%
•	 'Cinnamon Bentota Beach': 75.56%
	
Paper Conservation
The Group ensures that wastepaper disposed by its businesses is 
collected and recycled responsibly. 
During the year in review, 19,261 kgs of paper was collected for 
recycling. Impact:
	y
327 Trees
	y
33,803 Litres of Oil
	y
58 m3 of landfill
	y
Reduction of Green House Gas Emission by 19,261 kg of 
Carbon equivalent
	y
612,115 Litres of Water
	y
77,044 kWh of electricity
	
Responsible e-waste Disposal
The Group entered into an agreement with a third party recycler, 
registered with the Central Environmental Authority of Sri 
Lanka to ensure responsible recycling of e-waste generated in 
operations.
	y
970 Kgs of e-waste was channelled to recycling during the 
year under review.
	y
Through a similar project launched by JKOA, Toshiba toners 
and cartridges of 65,000 kg was collected by the business 
during the year.

72 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
NATURAL CAPITAL REVIEW
   BIODIVERSITY  
Preserving and conserving biodiversity is a significant focus for the Group owing to its reliance on natural resources. This aspect holds significant 
importance to all businesses within the Group and is an integral part of decision-making processes. It holds particular consequence for the Leisure 
industry group, which depends on the diverse eco-systems integral to its service offerings. The Group's CSR arm, John Keells Foundation (JKF), also 
carries out various initiatives under its 'Environment' focus area to further support this cause.
The Group's biodiversity initiatives have many facets, including preserving marine eco-systems, conserving temperatures, biodiversity on land and 
aquatic environment and promoting employee engagement. 
Out of the Group's businesses, the Leisure industry group had carried out an assessment to identify any operational properties managed in, or adjacent 
to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. 
Cinnamon Citadel Kandy 
	y Mahaweli river and freshwater eco-systems, adjacent 
to property
	y Extent of Site (km2) - 0.0234
	y *IUCN Category 4 - Habitat/ Species Management Area
Cinnamon Bey Beruwala
	y Marine eco-system, adjacent to property
	y Extent of Site (km2) - 0.045
	y *IUCN Category 2 - National Park
Cinnamon Bentota Beach
	y Marine eco-system, adjacent to property
	y Extent of Site (km2) - 0.0446
	y * IUCN Category 2 - National Park
Hikka Tranz by Cinnamon
	y Marine eco-system, adjacent to property
	y Subsurface Land at Site (km2) - 3,600
	y Extent of Site (km2) - 0.0176
	y *IUCN Category 2 - National Park
Trinco Blu by Cinnamon
	y Marine eco-system, adjacent to property
	y Extent of Site (km2) - 0.1143
	y * IUCN Category 2 - National Park
Habarana Village by Cinnamon
	y Minneriya tank sanctuary, 15 km away from property
	y Extent of Site (km2) - 0.0378
	y *IUCN Category 2 - National Park
Cinnamon Lodge Habarana
	y Minneriya tank sanctuary, 15 km away from property
	y Extent of Site (km2) - 0.1031
	y *IUCN Category 2 - National Park
Cinnamon Wild Yala 
	y Yala national park, adjacent to property
	y Extent of Site (km2) - 0.0405
	y *IUCN Category 2 - National Park
Proximity to biodiversity and its features – Sri Lankan Resorts
Note: 	All properties have obtained EPLs. 
	
Unless explicitly specified, subsurface land at site (km2) - Nil.
	
*Protected through the Flora and Fauna Protection Ordinance 1937.
Proximity to biodiversity and its features – Maldivian Resorts
Cinnamon Dhonveli 
Maldives 
	y Marine eco-system, 
adjacent to 
property
	y Extent of Site (km2) 
– 0.1496
Cinnamon Velifushi 
Maldives
	y Marine eco-system, 
adjacent to 
property
	y Extent of Site (km2) 
– 0.05351 
Cinnamon Hakuraa 
Huraa Maldives
	y Marine eco-system, 
adjacent to 
property
	y Extent of Site (km2) 
– 0.0543
Ellaidhoo Maldives by 
Cinnamon
	y Marine eco-
system, adjacent to 
property
	y Extent of Site (km2) 
– 0.0556
Velana 
International 
Airport
Note: 	Subsurface land at site (km2) -Nil.
	
Protected through The Environmental Protection 	
	
and Preservation Act.
'Cinnamon' rainforest restoration
Biodiversity mapping at 'Cinnamon Ellaidhoo by Maldives'

73
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Biodiversity Initiatives
Among the Group's entities, the Leisure industry group often operates in 
or near high biodiversity areas, reflecting the nature of its activities. Each 
new hotel construction adheres to LEED Gold or Platinum standards to 
mitigate environmental impact. Furthermore, with the introduction of 
the Group's ESG strategy, there's a commitment to restore habitat on 
a 1:1 basis if affected by the Group's activities. Additionally, the Group 
pledges to champion high-impact biodiversity projects aligned with its 
core business and operations at a national level. Additionally, the Group 
has undertaken various initiatives on biodiversity assessment and habitat 
conservation in various parts of the country that is of significance or of 
material importance to the Group. 
Mangrove Conservation Programme at 'Cinnamon Bentota Beach' Hotel
	 Cinnamon Rainforest Restoration Project
The Cinnamon Rainforest Restoration Project, a joint endeavour 
between JKF, 'Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts', Ruk Rakaganno (The 
Tree Society of Sri Lanka), and the Forest Department of Sri Lanka, 
successfully completed a fruitful three-year collaboration. 
The project focuses on revitalising a degraded 59-acre plot in 
Suduwelipotha, nestled within the Kalawana range near the 
Sinharaja forest reserve, a UNESCO World Heritage Site. 
Surpassing the targeted number of seedlings outlined in the 
MOU with the Forest Department, 16,285 seedlings comprising 
70 diverse species of wet zone indigenous forest plants were 
planted by second quarter of 2023/24.
Beyond tree planting, the project's impact reverberates through 
various environmental initiatives. Four bat caves and two ponds 
were constructed to bolster biodiversity, fostering habitats for 
amphibians, dragonflies, and other pond-associated species. 
Furthermore, the introduction of 200 butterfly-friendly plant 
species and the establishment of 56 seed banks under UV Poly 
tunnel technology further enhanced eco-system resilience and 
promoted conservation efforts.
As per the ecological assessment done by a team of experts 
during the year, considering the ecological progression during 
the short time span and many other social benefits that are 
attached to the project, it was decided to continue land 
management for a further 3-5 years to witness the stronger 
ecological impact of the project.
	 Mangrove Conservation Programme
In a bid to safeguard coastal eco-systems, 'Hikka Tranz by 
Cinnamon' embarked on a Mangrove Conservation Programme 
by planting 25 mangrove trees along the banks of Mawakada Ela. 
Volunteers partook in planting saplings to restore and protect 
vital mangrove habitats. 
Recognising the significance of mangroves in shoreline 
stabilisation and biodiversity preservation, this initiative aimed to 
fortify coastal resilience and promote eco-system health.
	 Sea Turtle Conservation Initiatives
Sea turtle conservations are a priority at both 'Cinnamon Hakuraa 
Huraa Maldives' and 'Hikka Tranz by Cinnamon'.
At 'Cinnamon Hakuraa Huraa Maldives', the team, led by their in-
house lifeguard with over five years of experience in turtle, shark, 
and coral conservation, oversee the entire incubation cycle of sea 
turtles. With the support of guests, they successfully released 90 
baby turtles into the ocean, ensuring their safety. Collaborating 
with the Maldives Environment Protection Agency, they aim to 
save even more hatchlings in the future.
Meanwhile, 'Hikka Tranz by Cinnamon' hosted a comprehensive 
sea turtle conservation programme. Informational boards on 
turtle conservation and hatchlings are strategically placed and 
an awareness session was conducted, followed by the release of 
hatchlings into the ocean. To date, a remarkable total of 10,123 
hatchlings have been released, primarily consisting of green 
turtles and Batu Kasbewa (olive ridley) turtles.
	 Biodiversity Mapping
'Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts' implemented the biodiversity 
management plan with the aim of developing a scientific database 
for the biodiversity around all 'Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts' in the 
Maldives, the 'Cinnamon' Complex in Habarana, 'Cinnamon Wild 
Yala' and 'Trinco Blu by Cinnamon', especially endangered flora 
and fauna. 'Cinnamon Bey Beruwala', 'Hikka Tranz by Cinnamon' 
and 'Cinnamon Bentota Beach', in collaboration with the Zoo Net 
Association of the Open University of Sri Lanka conducted an 
assessment of the biodiversity on the hotel's property. Subsequently, 
a biodiversity action plan has been formulated. Mapping at the 
'Cinnamon' Maldivian Resorts, 'Cinnamon' Hotel Complex in 
Habarana and 'Cinnamon Wild Yala' have already been completed.
	 Nature Field Centre, Rumassala
Rumassala in Galle is a mountain rich in biodiversity including 
several species of endemic birds, marine life, coral reefs and 
a number of rare medicinal plants. Through a public private 
partnership with the Central Environment Authority and JKF, 
a Nature Field Centre was constructed and equipped by JKF 
in 2008 to facilitate conservation of the rich biodiversity and 
facilitate experiential learning for school children and others. In 
2023/24, the Centre attracted 11 programmes for 521 persons.

74 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
NATURAL CAPITAL REVIEW
Extended Product Responsibility 
The Group places significance emphasis on the entire lifecycle of its 
products which goes beyond traditional environmental responsibility. 
The Group aims to manage the entire lifecycle of the product 
manufactured, including their end-of-life disposal. 
By implementing initiatives related to identified material areas, the 
Group demonstrates the commitment to sustainability, minimise the 
environmental footprint, and contribute to the transition to a more 
circular economy where resources are used more efficiently, and waste 
is minimised. 
Sea Turtle conservation initiative at 'Hikka Tranz by Cinnamon'.
Coral Restoration Programme - 'Cinnamon Dhonveli Maldives'.
289
recyclable plastic 
waste collection bins 
placed island-wide 
since the inception in 
2017/18
11
standard format 
recyclable waste 
collection bins were 
added to the bin 
network during the 
year in review
~43.9 MT
of recyclable plastic 
waste (the equivalent 
of ~1,191,000 PET 
bottles) collected in 
2023/24
'Plasticcycle', the Group's social entrepreneurship project, achieved 
significant progress in encouraging the reduction in single-use 
plastics through awareness, supporting responsible disposal 
through their bin network and promoted recycling initiatives driving 
their vision of being a catalyst in significantly reducing plastic waste 
in Sri Lanka despite encountering economic roadblocks.
In 2023/24, Plasticcycle's focus expanded towards cleaner oceans, 
encouraging innovation and promoting the 4Rs (Refuse, Reduce, 
Reuse, Recycle) among diverse stakeholder groups. 
Key initiatives in 2023/24:
Awareness creation
	y
Hosted a panel discussion as part of the World Environment Day 
event 2023, organised by a leading pharmaceutical company 
and the Sri Lanka College of Pulmonologists.
	y
Conducted an awareness session for the Beach Clean-up 
organised by the LEO club of the University of Moratuwa, in 
collaboration with the Synopsis group and the Panadura Police.
	y
Participated in a panel discussion organised by the Sri Lanka 
Association for Software and Services Companies (SLAASCOM).
Improving collection and expanding the 'Plasticcycle' bin 
network
	y
Entered into an agreement with the Pearl Protectors, a youth-
led marine conservation organisation, to partner on a project 
'Cleaner Seabeds for Sri Lanka Expedition' (CSFSLE) to remove 
underwater marine litter from sensitive marine eco-systems and 
reefs located around Sri Lanka. 
	y
Teamed up with 'Cinnamon Grand Colombo' and 'Cinnamon Red 
Colombo' for a beach clean-up at the Crow Island Beach Park. 
 'PLASTICCYCLE'  
'Plasticcycle' partners with The Pearl Protectors.
	 Coral Restoration Program
Teaming up with universities and marine conservation 
organisations, 'Cinnamon Dhonveli Maldives', 'Ellaidhoo 
Maldives by Cinnamon' and 'Cinnamon Hakuraa Huraa Maldives' 
spearheaded coral restoration programmes. These initiatives 
encompassed the transplantation of coral fragments, ongoing 
reef monitoring endeavours, and pioneering research endeavours 
to develop sustainable reef management protocols. By fostering 
collaborative partnerships and community engagement, the 
hotels played a pivotal role in safeguarding fragile coral eco-
systems and promoting marine biodiversity conservation.

75
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
306
bins strategically placed across the 
country
~600 MT
plastic collected for 2023/24 
(equivalent to ~ 21 million bottles)
4
pioneering women-led plastic collection 
centres
Empowering over 200 
women and their families economically
	y
'Gunadamin Elephant House' was initiated as the CSR arm of the Beverages 
and Frozen Confectionery businesses with the aim of encapsulating all 
initiatives that are carried out for the benefit of the wider society. The 
project aims to leave a lasting positive impact on society, ensuring that the 
Group's actions today, pave the way for a brighter tomorrow. This initiative 
not only contributes to environmental sustainability but also generates 
employment opportunities, particularly within the informal sector, thereby 
bolstering the national Gross Domestic Products (GDP).
During the year, under this project:
	y
Steps were taken to invest in infrastructure development for responsible 
disposals and to increase the collection and recycling rates of PET and 
other recyclable products in Sri Lanka. 
	y
Focus was placed towards Material Recovery Facilities (MRF) centres, 
encouraging innovation and promoting the 4Rs (Refuse, Reduce, Reuse, 
Recycle) among diverse stakeholder groups.
	y
Significant strides were made in expanding the plastic waste collection 
network; a total of 100 new bins were invested in, bringing the 
nationwide bin network to a commendable 306 bins strategically 
placed across the country. The collection of plastic waste is closely 
monitored and periodically managed by Material Recovery Facilities 
(MRF) centres, with eight operational centres efficiently segregating, 
washing, baling, and crushing plastic waste for recycling. 
	y
Over 600 metric tons of plastic waste was collected and recycled 
during the year, equivalent to ~21 million bottles, marking a significant 
milestone in waste management and recycling efforts.
	y
In collaboration with USAID's Ocean Plastic Reduction Activity, 
'Gunadamin Elephant House' embarked on a ground-breaking initiative 
to establish MRF centres along the coastal belt. Four pioneering women-
led plastic collection centres were established in Dickwella, Batticaloa, 
Mannar, and Trincomalee areas, empowering over 200 women and their 
families economically while contributing to environmental conservation. 
	y
The introduction of e-bikes for plastic waste collection marked a 
milestone, enhancing collection rates and efficiency. These innovative 
vehicles, capable of holding up to 50 kilograms of plastic waste, 
represent a significant step forward in streamlining waste collection 
processes and promoting sustainable practices. 
	y
Sponsored large-scale clean-up events, such as the Sri Pada season for 
the third consecutive year, underscoring the projects' commitment to 
environmental stewardship and community engagement. 
	y
Extensive awareness sessions on plastic waste management were 
conducted nationwide, targeting schools, Government institutions, 
private organisations, and local communities, furthering the initiative's 
reach and impact. 
'GUNADAMIN BY ELEPHANT HOUSE'
'Keells': Promoting Sustainable Practices and 
Reducing Plastic Usage
E – Bike concept for plastic waste collection.
E – Bike and bins handing over to community.  
Over 92,669 reusable bags sold per month
Over 179,386 bag reuses per month
Upcycles ~ 440kg of flex material
Uses 97,307 boxes per month on average for packing
Collects around 1,000 kg of plastic waste per month 
through Trash2Cash machines
The Supermarket business has been at the forefront of 
promoting sustainable practices and reducing plastic 
usage through various initiatives aimed at minimising 
environmental impact. These initiatives include:
Reduce reliance on plastic and polythene
	y
Shrink Wrap Reduction: Has achieved a 22% reduction 
in shrink wrap across its Distribution Centres by 
implementing safety belt usage.
	y
Compostable Bags: Offers compostable bags at 
fish, meat, fruit, and vegetable counters, promoting 
sustainable packaging solutions.
“The introduction of E-bikes for plastic 
waste collection capable of holding up to 50 
kilograms of plastic waste marked a milestone, 
enhancing collection rates and efficiency.”

76 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
NATURAL CAPITAL REVIEW
Trash2cash machine located at 'Keells' Outlet.
	y
Paper Straws: Juice counters now offer 
paper straws, reducing reliance on single-
use plastic straws.
	y
BYOB (Bring Your Own Bag) and BYOC 
(Bring Your Own Container): Customers 
are encouraged to bring their own eco-
friendly reusable bags and containers, 
further reducing the reliance on polythene 
bags. Discount for customers who bring 
their own bags or containers has been 
increased to Rs.6 per bag/container, 
incentivising sustainable practices.
	y
Green Bag Initiative: Provides eco-
friendly reusable bags, minimising the 
use of polythene bags and encouraging 
customers to reuse.
Promoting Recycling
	y
Recycling bins: 48 outlets equipped 
with recycling bins provided through the 
'plasticcycle' initiative to encourage and 
provide means for customers to recycle 
used plastic items.
	y
Trash2Cash Machines: Located in 10 
outlets collecting 1,000 kgs a month.
   Key business risks associated with  
Natural Capital
	y
Regulatory Environment
	y
Environment and Health and Safety
	y
Reputation and Brand Image
	y
Climate Risk 
Refer Outlook and Risks.
Management Approach 
The John Keells Group places great importance on effectively managing its Natural Capital. 
The Group is dedicated to fostering environmentally responsible practices across our key 
businesses by implementing policies and procedures that support sustainable and eco-
friendly operation.
The Group has operations in a variety of industries, with businesses in the Retail, Leisure, 
Consumer Foods, Transportation, Property and Plantation Services verticals, which have high 
environmental impacts. All Group companies adhere to all relevant local environmental laws 
and regulations, whilst goals and targets have been established in the majority of the Group's 
significant entities through an external benchmarking assessment and are monitored 
and reported internally on a regular basis. The resources assigned for the industry-specific 
initiatives fall under the horizon of each industry group and the resourcing of Human and 
Financial Capital is based on the feasibility of the initiative which is in concern.
The Group tracks its environmental performance every quarter through the tracking 
of the related GRI disclosures with annual audits and management review at quarterly 
management committee meetings, as well as obtaining regular formal and informal 
feedback from our significant stakeholders. Internal sustainability information is tracked and 
monitored through a dedicated IT system through which quarterly analytical reports are 
circulated to the Group's highest governance bodies and external stakeholders. Business 
Unit Heads also uses these reports to track and monitor the environmental performance 
of their respective companies, identify areas for improvement and implement necessary 
initiatives. Based on horizon scanning and external review, the Group will continuously 
review and improve its policies and management approach with regard to the environment.
Complementing Group's overall Environmental Policy, specific policies and management 
approach on the above environmental topics are operationalised through each Business 
Unit head and its relevant Sustainability Champion. With the recent study undertaken 
to further enhance the Groups' approach to ESG, all of the Group's policies, including 
those related to Natural Capital, are undergoing review. These reviews will lead to further 
enhancements in Group policies, including the introduction of new policies and position 
statements, reflecting additional efforts to align the Group's strategy.
The Sustainability Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) established, ensure consistency of 
processes and data accuracy, and robust internal and external audits are carried out on an 
annual basis to ensure that the processes are adopted by the business units are in line with 
these SOPs.
The Group's value chain forms an important component of its operations, and the Group 
expects compliance and environmental responsibility from its partners across the supply 
chain in their day-to-day operations. Business units have also been encouraged to identify 
their significant suppliers and assess them on key environmental impact areas, with the 
Group's Supplier Code of Conduct reiterating the Group's commitment in this regard.
The Group has established standard protocols for data measurement; all energy and fossil fuel 
consumption are metered, and these meters undergo regular calibration. Water withdrawal 
is measured using divisional water meters and inlet water meters, while wastewater outflow 
is measured using meter readings and estimates based on pump time. The majority of waste 
statistics come from the weighing at the point of handing over to third-party waste handlers 
when exact measurements cannot be obtained, conservative estimations are made.
Group's carbon emissions are calculated according to the greenhouse gas protocol 
governed by the World Resources Institute (WRI) and the World Business Council for 
Sustainable Development (WBCSD). Calculations use the carbon emission factor source of 
the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) guidelines for national greenhouse 
gas inventories, published by the Institute for Global Environmental Strategies (IGES) and 
include only CO2, which the Group has been comparing on a per Rupee of revenue basis 
since 2009/10. All business units identified in the reporting boundary for sustainability have 
been considered for the computation of their carbon footprint. Based on horizon scanning 
and external review, the Group will continuously evaluate and improve its policies and 
management approach regarding the environment.

The Group broadly tracks, manages, reports on key focus areas with 
respect to the natural environment. Through comprehensive stakeholder 
engagement conducted at the sector level and subsequently consolidated 
at the Group level, the reporting year's GHG emissions and energy 
Management, water management, and waste management themes were 
identified as material topics. Along with the actions the Group has been 
doing to manage these areas, some general goals were decided upon at 
a Group level and would then be cascaded down to the industry group 
level in accordance with materiality. The ambitions are then discussed and 
agreed upon by the industry group management as well as the Group's 
highest governance body.
GHG Emissions and Energy Management 
The Group policy requires that all businesses take actions to curtail 
their environmental footprint resulting due to the use of energy, and 
for all businesses to seek out methods for energy conservation through 
embracing lean energy management practices and investment in energy 
efficient alternatives. Businesses are also encouraged to evaluate the 
feasibility of adopting renewable sources of energy where possible. The 
Group seeks to monitor and manage its carbon footprint through diligent 
direct and indirect energy management. The Group is working towards a 
long-term NetZero goal with short and medium-term goals that would 
be agreed upon at a Group-level and cascaded to industry group-levels. 
The group steering committees comprising cross-sectoral representatives 
would be tasked with developing these roadmaps in achieving these 
ambitions. 
Water Management 
Water and wastewater management deeply impacts the economy, 
environment, and human rights. The Group acknowledges its potential 
involvement in negative impacts through its operations and business 
relationships. This may include wastewater discharge, water pollution, 
or depletion due to extraction activities. The Group actively manages 
positive impacts by promoting water conservation and supporting 
community water projects. As initiatives to reduce the intake of water 
from blue water sources, the Group policy requires all business units to 
conserve and optimise their usage of water obtained from surface and 
ground water sources, and to re-use wastewater after treatment wherever 
possible. Further, the policy conveys on the discharge of wastewater, at 
a minimum should adhere to the quality levels stipulated by regulations, 
with recommendations to reuse treated wastewater as far as practically 
possible, for purposes such as gardening, toilet flushing etc. to reduce the 
quantity of effluents discharged to the environment. All Group companies 
employ monitoring processes including water quality testing and usage 
tracking, to assess the effectiveness of our actions, identify key points 
of usage and identify and implement applicable technologies, process 
improvements, and motivate changes in staff behaviour to conserve water. 
The Group continuously monitors its water consumption efficiency per 
unit of product or service, benchmarking it against international standards 
within industry groups where a substantial portion of the Group's water 
consumption is allocated. This enables the Group to maintain alignment 
with industry benchmarks and enhance its operational sustainability. 
Additionally with the study carried out to enhance the ESG strategy 
framework, the Group also conducted a study with the aid of a third-party 
consultant to benchmark the water consumption initiatives, and other 
parameters against selected peers for industry groups that water is of 
material importance to its operations. When arriving at the short, medium 
and long-term goals these factors were considered and targets at a 
Group-level as well as industry group-levels were agreed upon to improve 
performance. The Group is working towards achieving water neutrality and 
identifying opportunities to work towards water positivity in the medium 
to long-term. 
Waste Management 
The Group's waste management strategy consists of two facets. 
1.	 To manage waste generated through its internal operations. 
2.	 To manage and reduce the generation of waste due to products or 
services sold. 
To efficiently manage waste, the Group employs the 4R's approach: 
reduce, reuse, recycle and recover. Waste data, including hazardous 
and non-hazardous waste breakdowns by compositions and disposal 
method-based waste kilograms, is captured and reported quarterly 
across all Group businesses. These figures are compared to the previous 
quarters' performances and established benchmarks from prior studies. 
Continuous efforts are made within the Group's business units to enhance 
material efficiency and diminish waste generation. In sectors generating 
non-biodegradable waste, ongoing initiatives focus on process efficiency 
enhancements and research into biodegradable alternatives.
Refer pages 70 and 71 for some initiatives that took place in the reporting year. 
Significant waste arises from the products and services offered, 
particularly within the Consumer Foods, Retail, and the Leisure industry 
groups. Past commitments, such as eliminating single-use plastics in the 
leisure industry group and transitioning packaging materials for frozen 
confectioneries to biodegradable alternatives, have been pursued and 
progressed upon in the review year. Initiatives such as 'Gunadamin' by 
CCS, the Group's 'Good Water' initiative, and 'Plasticcycle' initiatives aim to 
reclaim non-biodegradable waste through material recovery facilities and 
bin networks, while addressing improperly disposed waste on land and in 
water bodies.
With the enhancement of the ESG strategy framework, the Group is also 
in the process of working towards reducing the amount of non-recyclable 
plastic in its operations and working towards diverting as much as possible 
waste from landfill, thereby aligning to the zero waste to landfill strategy. 
As the Beverages business consumes and produces PET in its operations, 
the Group is also working towards reclaiming as much as possible from 
the environment and channelling recyclables to responsible recycling 
and recovery processes to subsequently work towards achieving plastic 
neutrality. 
Conservation of Biodiversity 
With the country recognised globally as rich in biodiversity, the Group is 
aware of the global and national value of Sri Lanka's naturally endowed 
resources and seeks to safeguard the flora and fauna biodiversity of the 
localities in which its businesses operate. Protection of biodiversity and 
the environment is linked to the performance of some of its key operating 
sectors, in particular the Leisure industry group, as the Group strives to 
sustain the unique value proposition of Sri Lanka's natural beauty. While 
many of the Group's operations are in urban, suburban and industrial zones, 
thereby having minimal impact on biodiversity, the Group's hotels operate, 
in certain instances, in proximity to protected areas. Details of such sites can 
be found in the group consolidated review of the Report, and the specific 
biodiversity conservation projects carried out by the Group can be found in 
the Group Consolidated Review section of the Report. 
77
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information

NATURAL CAPITAL REVIEW
The John Keells Group is committed to promoting sound 
environmental practices within our key businesses, through the 
establishment of policies and practices that enable us to conduct 
operations in a sustainable and environmentally sound manner. 
We will strive to continuously identify all potential impacts on the 
environment and manage such impacts whilst using resources in a 
sustainable and efficient manner.
Minimising energy-related environmental impact and enhancing 
the Group's competitiveness through energy costs savings by 
embracing lean energy management practices.
The Group's water policy seeks to conserve and optimise its use 
of water obtained from surface and ground water sources and 
wherever possible shall seek to re-use waste water after treatment 
in its operations with a view to reducing the intake of fresh water.
The John Keells Group Policy with regard to waste management 
is based upon the tenets of 'Reduce, Reuse, Recycle', and we 
encourages employees to conscious in terms of reducing 
consumption and reuse and recycle wherever possible.
Group Environmental Policy
Group Energy Management Policy
Group Water Management Policy
Group Waste Management Policy
Defined as substances which are dangerous or potentially harmful. 
'Hazardous Waste' which is generated from various commercial, 
industrial and other institutional sources cause immense 
environmental and health problems across the globe. Assuming 
its role as a responsible corporate citizen, the John Keells Group 
seeks to streamline and enhance proper management of hazardous 
waste within the Group, to mitigate the impact of such waste on 
the environment.
The Group shall seek to conserve, and where possible, enhance 
biodiversity of the locality through the adherence of local and 
Governmental laws and the implementation of best practice 
relating to conservation and protection of biodiversity in areas 
where operations of the Group are carried out.
The Group understands and acknowledges its responsibility in 
conserving and protecting the biodiversity of the areas it carries 
out operations, not only for the purpose of ensuring sustainable 
business, but to take care of the planet and preserve its diversity, 
beauty, resources and strength for future generations.
Group Hazardous Waste Policy
Group Biodiversity Conservation Policy
Key Policies
78 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24

HUMAN CAPITAL REVIEW
  Employee Engagement 
Page 82
Employees within seven industry groups
15,314
FY23 – 15,415
Permanent employees
8,815
FY23 – 8,920
Employees on fixed term contracts
6,499
FY23 – 6,495
Male : Female ratio
67:33
FY23 – 67:33
The management of Human Capital is of paramount importance as it is a key contributor to the 
Group's value creation process. Attracting, retaining, and fostering talent, along with providing 
development opportunities, are imperative to ensure the long-term sustainability of the Group's 
operations. The discussion on Human Capital comprises of two parts:
(1)	A performance analysis of the main focus areas of the Group's Human Capital during the year 
under review. 
(2)	The Group's approach to managing Human Capital. 
Key highlights on focus areas under Human Capital
Key highlights of the year:
 Talent Acquisition 
	y
The Group Management Trainee Programme was 
completed for the 17th consecutive year.
Compensation and Benefits*
	y
Special budgetary allocations were made towards 
employee recognition schemes at both Group and 
business levels.
Learning and Development
	y
The Group launched a set of new competencies 
as 'Success Drivers', replacing the 'Group Roof 
Competencies'.
Employee Engagement*
	y
Implementation of action plans based on the 
climate survey conducted by the independent 
third-party organisation 'Great Place to Work', took 
place throughout the year to enhance employee 
experience. 
Health and Safety*
	y
The Group continued multiple health and safety 
awareness sessions and actions reinforcing its 
commitment to ensure a safe working environment 
for its employees, contractors and visitors who are 
involved in any business or transaction with the 
John Keells Group.
“The Group places great 
emphasis on capacity 
and skill building 
through human capital 
investment, and providing 
development opportunities 
towards enhancing skills, 
and competencies.”
These areas are governed by Group-wide policies and processes. Therefore, initiatives apply across all industry groups.
Focus Areas
The Group Human Resource Division (Group 
HR) ensures that the Group Human Resource 
Framework functions as planned, ensuring 
the development and implementation of 
effective HR strategies, policies, processes 
and systems. This entails formulating policies 
and procedures that align with the overall 
objectives of the Group while ensuring 
compliance with all applicable laws and 
regulations. The framework also designs 
and implements compensation and benefit 
programmes that are competitive and fair 
across the respective industries.
Significant emphasis is placed on the 
focus areas identified under the Group HR 
framework which enables the Group to ensure 
sustainable value creation for all its employees. 
The following focus areas have been identified 
as material in developing the Human Capital 
base of the Group.
  Compensation and Benefits 
Page 84
  Health and Safety 
Page 84
Focus Areas
  Learning and Development 
Page 81
  Talent Management 
Page 82
  Diversity, Equity and Inclusion 
Page 83
SDG's Impacted 
through Initiatives:
Quality Education
Continuous investment in 
employees through learning, 
development, skill, and 
capacity building.
Gender Equality
Prioritise gender equity, 
increase female participation 
and opportunities for 
leadership.
Decent Work and 
Economic Growth
Encouraging reuse and 
recycling of waste alongside 
responsible waste disposal.
Reduced 
Inequalities
Monitoring and managing 
the Group's carbon footprint 
through adopting alternatives 
to fossil fuels, where possible
79
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information

80 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
Total Employees
Gender 
67
33
Age
56
35
9
Board of Directors
Gender
67
33
Age
42
58
Group Executive 
Committee (GEC)
Gender
88
12
Age
50
50
Group Operating 
Committee (GOC)
Gender
86
14
Age
43
57
Senior Management
Gender
82
18
Age
71
29
Middle Management
Gender
73
27
Age
12
75
13
Workforce
Gender
64
36
Contractor's Personnel
Gender
56
44
7,424
Retail
[FY23: 7,703]
5,042
Leisure
[FY23: 6,280]
4,190
Financial Services
[FY23: 4,515]
1,684
Consumer Foods
[FY23: 1,568]
1,341
Other, incl. 
Information 
Technology and 
Plantation Services
[FY23: 1,350]
630
Transportation
[FY23: 535]
303
Property 
[FY23: 299]
Composition of Group workforce:
HUMAN CAPITAL REVIEW
Employee composition by Gender and by Age (%)
Employee composition by Region
<30
30-50
>50
The Group has 5300 contractor's personnel directly employed from third 
parties.
1,348 
Janitorial
1,756 
Security
617 
Transportation
177  
Labour
803  
Supporting staff 
59 
Other
Local
Overseas
Total
14,750
564
9,756
4,994
462
102
New hires : 1New hire rate
10,235 : 69%
193 : 34%
Permanent employees
8,815
-
5,947
2,868
-
-
Contract employees
5,935
564
3,799
2,136
462
102
1 New hire rate is calculated as new hires per category/ number of employees in the 
category
*All employees of the Group are employed as full time workers as the Group does not 
employ any part time employees.
*The methodology used to report all Employee numbers are in headcount. 
*Assumption: 
Number of working hours per employee = 8 hours per day 
Total number of days worked for the year = 252 days 
In the year under review, the group has hired a total of 10428 personnel.
New Hires
Total by gender
6,263
4,165
1Rate by gender
61%
82%
Total by Age
9,271
1,046
111
1Rate by age
108%
19%
08%
Women empowered outlet in Supermarket Businesses
“The Group's continuous efforts on a diverse 
range of recruitment and retention initiatives, 
resulted in an increase in female participation 
to 33% in the year under review.”

81
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
   LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT
Building on the Group's future-focused learning culture and the need 
to align to a dynamic learning environment, the Group focused on 
enhancing the overall employee experience by promoting continuous 
engagement through various channels and interventions in order to foster 
employees' knowledge and skills, to drive better business performance.
Average training hours per employee by gender
Male
77
Female
121
Employee category
Average training 
hours per employee
AVP & above
3
Managers
13
Assistant Managers
14
Executives
51
Non-executives
112
8
4
88
(%)
Leadership Development Programmes
In-person
Virutal
Blended 
28
72
(%)
In-person
Virutal
Blended 
Soft Skills Development
45
55
(%)
In-person
Virutal
Blended 
Role-Based Training Interventions
Total Trainings
6,169.12
86,427.83
1,026,945.96
Rs.0.89 million
Rs.5.58 million
Rs.11.93 million
Total training hours
Total training hours
Total training hours
Total investment
Total investment
Total investment
Learning and Development Initiatives:
	y
A new set of competencies termed 'Success Drivers' was launched 
to replace the Group's roof competencies that existed previously. 
The Success Drivers are expected to serve as the bedrock of 
Group's leadership development, talent attraction, and learning 
and development initiatives. The following pool of 9 Success 
Drivers were identified through discussions and workshops, with a 
diverse range of internal stakeholders, at different levels. 
The internal training of the Success Drivers was championed by a group 
of 60+ manager level and above employees from across the Group. The 
year under review focused on the training of these champions, and the 
communication roll-out for all AVP+ leaders in the Group.
	y
The 'Outlet Manager Development' programme was conducted by 
the Supermarket business with the objective of developing selected 
employees for future outlet manager roles.
	y
The 'Cinnamon Brand Ambassador' programme was initiated by the 
Leisure industry group with the objective of improving service levels 
of identified associates.
	y
Development programmes such as 'Super Six' were conducted with 
the aim of developing leadership skills of the associates at 'Cinnamon 
Hotels & Resorts'.
	y
Internal Auditor training programmes were conducted across the 
Leisure industry group on ISO 22000, ISO 14001 and ISO 45001 
standards. 
	y
Several training initiatives, including 'Cinnamon Connect Training' 
and 'Train the Trainer' Programmes, were carried out on hospitality 
practices for the staff in the Leisure businesses. 
	y
'Middle Management Development Programme', 'Manager 
Acceleration Programme', 'Supervisory Talent Enhancement 
Programme' (STEP), and 'Good to Grand', among others, were 
conducted, to continuously upscale the quality of employees in the 
Leisure industry group. 
	y
'Empower Her Programme' was conducted to empower and 
motivate women in leadership roles within the Leisure businesses.
Inclusive 
Leadership
Connecting the 
Dots
Emotional 
Resilience
Entrepreneurial 
Mindset
360 Stakeholder 
Commitment
Being Agile
Storytelling
Relentless 
Execution
Corporate 
Citizenship
Success 
Drivers

82 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
Performance Management 
The Group's performance cycle enables the identification of high 
performers and formulation of succession plans whilst simultaneously 
providing development and training to employees requiring support. 
In addition to the bi-annual formal feedback sessions of the Group's 
performance cycle, continuous performance management (CPM) 
enables supervisors and teams to convert objectives into action steps 
and record progress and feedback on a continuous basis. The cloud-
based Human Resource Information System enables all performance 
appraisals and career committee reviews to be performed virtually. 
HUMAN CAPITAL REVIEW
   TALENT MANAGEMENT
The Group's talent management strategy focuses on hiring, engaging, 
developing, and retaining high performing employees.  
Initiatives adopted by the Group during the year:
	y
The Management Trainee Programme of the Group was 
completed for the 17th consecutive year, where 6 management 
trainees were chosen out of 233 applied candidates.
	y
The Group offered the 'FastTrack' summer internship programme 
in partnership with London Stock Exchange Group Sri Lanka and 
Unilever Sri Lanka. Under this programme, 15 undergraduates were 
provided with corporate exposure over a period of four-weeks.
	y
The Group partnered with Sysco Labs Sri Lanka and Brandix 
Lanka Limited to facilitate a two-week corporate human 
resource exposure programme to 20 human resources 
undergraduates from local universities.
	y
As a part of employer branding initiatives of the Group, Group 
HR participated in the career fairs organised by the Faculty of 
Management and Finance of University of Colombo, University 
of Moratuwa and the University of Kelaniya. The Group also 
participated in the career fair and panel discussion hosted by 
Universal College Lanka.
Key Initiatives by Industry Groups
Retail
	y
The retail module was offered to undergraduates of local 
universities under which the Supermarket businesses 
delivered multiple knowledge-sharing sessions, facilitating skill 
enhancement of undergraduates. 
	y
90+ university undergraduates were provided the opportunity 
to visit the 'Keells' Distribution Centre to enrich their knowledge 
on retail operations. 
	y
37 members were promoted to managerial positions under the 
'Retail Management Trainee Programme'. This Programme offers 
the recruits an opportunity to fast-track their career progression 
to managerial positions.
Transition assistance
 The Internal Job Posting Programme (IJPP) of the Group facilitates the 
movement of employees within its different sectors and business units, 
encouraging employee mobility across the Group. Employees who have 
completed two years of service in a specific role are eligible to apply 
to other vacant positions within the same company, the same industry 
group, or another industry group through the process under the IJPP. All 
internal postings of the Group has to first be advertised internally via the 
employee portal and internal communications and it is mandatory to 
interview all internal employees who apply for specific positions within 
the Group.  
When an employee is due to retire, the particular employee will be 
notified at the beginning of their retirement year facilitating them to 
plan their life after retirement, as well as support internal succession 
planning. If an employee is due to retire from specific functional role 
where replacements cannot be found due to specific skill sets or 
capabilities they acquire, and if suitable candidates are not available 
in the market, pre-discussed working arrangements can be made 
where these employees are onboarded on fixed-term contracts. This 
decision will be made by the Group or the sector's management at their 
discretion.
   EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT  
Great Place to Work
The Group continues to implement initiatives to sustain the highly-rated 
areas and uplift the areas identified as concerns in the culture survey 
conducted through the independent third-party organisation 'Great 
Place to Work', in order to enhance the employee experience. 
Sports and Engagement 
	y
Various activities were held during the year to improve employee 
engagement, such as a step challenge scaled to a virtual map of 
Mount Everest and a Group-wide talent show, among others. 
	y
Employees represented the Group in mercantile tournaments for 
netball, hockey, cricket, rugby, basketball, badminton and athletics.
	y
'Career Week 2023' was held with the aim of encouraging and 
assisting staff in steering one's career towards their goals.  
	y
Championship in Women's D division and 2nd Runner-up in Men's 
E Division, Mixed D division and Veterans B division at the 39th 
Mercantile Inter-firm badminton championship and 16 medals at the 
38th mercantile annual athletic championships.
Spotlight 2023.

83
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
LGBTIQ+ inclusivity
The Group was a key sponsor of Colombo PRIDE for the second 
consecutive year, demonstrating Group's ongoing commitment 
as an ally to the LGBTIQ+ community and to promoting 
diversity, equity, and inclusion within our community.
The Group actively drives knowledge-sharing sessions 
together with EQUAL GROUND Sri Lanka, to the corporate 
sector, to promote workplace inclusivity.
Increasing career opportunities for persons with disabilities 
(PWD)
The Group completed the 'Together We Can+' programme, 
by the International Finance Corporation (IFC). The Group's 
commitments in TWC+ included conducting a PWD needs 
assessment.
Developing a policy for PWD inclusivity and improved 
accessibility in physical and digital spaces for customers and 
employees with disabilities.
Promoting diversity in the Group's value chains
The third issue of the annual bi-lingual DE&I newsletter, 'JK 
Connect', was disseminated amongst the partners in the value 
chain, in April 2023. This newsletter is aimed at keeping the 
Group's partners up-to-date on the ONE JKH initiatives and 
to act as a platform for sharing knowledge and insights on 
success stories on DE&I, from across the value chains.
Gender parity and challenging gender stereotypes
Further to the commitment made by the Group in 2020/21, 
to increase female, participation in the workforce to 40%, the 
Group continued to work on a diverse range of recruitment 
and retention initiatives which have resulted in reaching 
female participation to 33% in 2023/24.
In line with the focus to achieve gender parity, an interactive 
session in commemoration of International Men's Day 2023 
was held to highlight the topics of gender equity, positive 
masculinity, mental well-being, and the importance of 
challenging harmful stereotypes.
Employees volunteering in Cinnamon Rainforest Restoration project.
Staff Volunteerism
Staff volunteers continued to play a pivotal role in supporting the John Keells 
Foundation (JKF) – the CSR entity of the Group - in project coordination, 
implementation and monitoring activities. Volunteer opportunities serve 
as a both community engagement and unifying force among staff, 
fostering cross-learning, networking and motivating experiences. Our 
volunteers, ranging from project champions to sector CSR coordinators, 
volunteer trainers, and those engaged in skill-based volunteerism, field 
work, and administrative support, have contributed significantly to the CSR 
achievements of both JKF and at Industry Group level. 
A total of 566 staff volunteers participated in JKF initiatives, resulting in 
1,061 volunteer instances and recording a total of 4,243 hours.
* Figures do not include CSR initiatives undertaken independently at a sector or business level.
Employee Recognition
Employee recognition schemes available at both Group and Industry 
Group level: 
	y
Awards for innovation, disruptive digitisation, sustainability, CSR 
volunteerism and diversity, equity and inclusion. 
	y
Online recognition tools such as 'Badges' on the HRIS for employees 
to recognise and appreciate their colleagues for displaying Group 
values, for going the extra mile, outstanding work and great 
teamwork, which are recorded on employee profiles and linked to 
their performance appraisal. 
	y
Continuous feedback made available for employees to give and 
receive feedback from their colleagues through the HRIS.
Chairperson's Awards
The John Keells Group Chairperson's Awards launched in 2004, is 
the highest internal recognition programme aimed at appreciating 
and recognising individuals and teams that have made a significant 
contribution towards the Group's triple bottom line. This annual 
recognition has evolved to comprise awards in the categories of 
Outstanding Achievement for individuals and teams, Corporate Social 
Responsibility, Sustainability, Innovation, Disruptive Innovation and 
Diversity Equity, and Inclusion. In November 2023, eight winners were 
recognised in the aforementioned categories.
'Organisation Promoting Equity/Equality and Diversity of the Year' at the Top50 
Professional & Career Women Global Awards - Thirteenth Edition' in 2023, by Women in 
Management (WIM) in partnership with IFC and the Government of Australia.
DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSION 

84 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
HUMAN CAPITAL REVIEW
Parental Leave
	y
All permanent employees of the organisation are entitled to 100 days 
of parental leave. 
	y
Under the equal 100 days of parental leave Initiative, 37 female 
employees and 51 male employees availed themselves for leave and 
33 female employees and 48 male employees returned to work after 
their parental leave period. 
	y
Return to work rate after parental leave is 92% which depicts the 
success of 100 days parent leave policy implemented within the Group.
	y
Overall retention rate of employees who took parental leave in 
previous period was 98%.
   COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS 
The compensation ratios of each industry of the John Keells Group 
differs from each other due to the nature of the business, the ratio of the 
executives carder to the non-executive carder and breadth and depth 
of each sector's organisational structure. Furthermore, due to the pay 
for performance and focus on variable pay philosophy of the Group, a 
significant variation of the compensation ratio on a year on year basis 
will also be experienced within each sector. Additionally, due to the 
approach of the Group on pay benchmarking based on market data 
on a role specific basis, also addresses gender bias and ensures a pay 
structure free of gender discrimination.
Permanent employees regardless being full or part time in nature, 
receive the same type of benefits. While contract employees receive the 
same benefits as full time employees with the exception of increments 
and short-term incentives depending on the terms of contracts, 
temporary workers benefits will differ to a greater extent. Additionally, 
employee benefits of Sri Lanka and the Maldives may vary according to 
the respective country's laws and regulations.
Initiatives during the year:
	y
Continued the payment of the Temporary Crisis Allowance 
which was provided in addition to employees' basic salary from 
January 2023, to assist employees in navigating the challenging 
macroeconomic environment. 
	y
Initiatives such as employee discounts, awareness sessions and 
webinars to aid employees in managing their personal finances.
Employee Benefit Plans
	y
As per labour laws in Sri Lanka, employees are eligible for the 
employees' provident fund (EPF) and the employees' trust fund (ETF) 
contributions, whilst Maldivian nationals employed in the Maldives 
are eligible for the Maldives retirement pension scheme (MRPS) 
contributions. 
	y
The total contribution made to the Employees' Trust Fund for 
2023/24 amounted to Rs.413 million (3% of salary contributed by 
the employer), whilst the total contribution made to the Employees' 
Provident Fund was Rs.1.32 billion. 
	y
In Sri Lanka, employees are also entitled to retirement gratuity. The 
employee benefits liability as at 31 March 2024 stood at Rs.3.59 billion 
and this value is met by the organisation's general resources.
Return to work rate 
Overall retention rate 
94.1%
98%
89.1%
100%
Male
Male
Female
Female
   HEALTH AND SAFETY   
The Group believes in the importance of its Human Capital as an 
integral part of its long-term strategy of sustainable business growth. It 
is committed to ensuring a safe working environment for its employees, 
contractors and visitors involved in any business or transaction with 
the John Keells Group. All sectors carry out operations under a well-
established Occupational Health and Safety Management System which 
is discussed under the management approach below. 
Collective Bargaining
The Group engages with trade unions through joint consultative 
committees and other mechanisms on an ongoing basis. Formal 
agreements are found in the Consumer Foods industry group 
which covers 538 employees, and accounts for 3.5% of the Group's 
total employee count. TSFL's wage structure is aligned with the 
regulations of the country's plantation industry.
Firefighting training at Colombo Ice Company Limited
“The Group strives to ensure that its work 
environment is safe and enabling with health 
and safety, given high importance at industry 
group level in accordance with all legal and 
regulatory requirements, while maintaining 
international health and safety standards as 
appropriate.”

85
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Health services provided to employees across the Group
As an ongoing effort to promote employee health and well-being, health services provided to employees throughout the financial year across the Group.
Industry 
Group
Access provided to non-occupational medical and 
healthcare services
Voluntary health promotion services and programmes offered to 
staff
Consumer 
Foods
Health Insurance Coverage
Health and Wellness Programmes
Annual medical checkups with risk assessment pop-ups, Fits & Bits 
Session
Transportation
Occupational health screening programme
N/A
Plantation 
Services
Annual medical screening for all workers, awareness on  
non-communicable diseases, health camps on 
awareness on non-communicable disease
Annual medical screening for all workers, awareness on  
non-communicable diseases, health camps on awareness on  
non-communicable disease
Leisure
Health Insurance Coverage, Employee Assistance 
Programmes
Health and Wellness Programmes
Flexible Work Arrangements
Health Education and Resources
Health Risk Assessments – Medical assessments for employees above 
the age of 40, food handlers, fitness medical assessments for new 
recruits, health education workshops and seminars, fitness and wellness 
programmes and gymnasium facility, nutrition counselling and mental 
health support services – Anagram and Sarvodaya
Property
Medical tests, medical insurance
N/A
The health services provided by the sectors are evaluated by Health and Safety Supplier Evaluations, Contractor Declarations and routine inspections and audits.
In reporting work related hazards, awareness sessions are carried out 
for all employees according to Industry Group level and Group level 
Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) policies. While all incident records 
are maintained, employees are given awareness on addressing such 
situation and thereby maintaining a safe and healthy workplace and 
how to work on such situations. The data recording and compiling is 
done according to the GRI 403 standards.
Injuries
Employees
Contractors' 
personnel
High consequence injuries (number)
0
0
High consequence injury rate (%)
0
0
Recordable Injuries (number)
254
2
**Recordable injury rate (%)
1.66
0.06
Number of hours worked (million)
30.6
10.6
No. of fatalities
0
1
Fatality rate (%)
0
0
** The rates have been calculated based on 200,000 hours worked.
Employee injury types
Total No
Injuries due to falling 
79
Injuries due to explosions and exposure to harmful 
rays/substances
9
Injuries due to malfunctioning equipment 
1
Injuries due to lifting or moving heavy items 
124
Injuries due to cuts, pricks and sharp objects  
40
Injuries due to roadside accidents/ vehicle collisions 
1
Injuries due to natural disasters and other causes 
3
In order to ensure a healthy and safe environment, in addition to  
Group-wide initiatives, the businesses carried out the following 
programmes:
	y
Plantation Services - Establishment and maintaining of ISO worker 
friendly environment by assessing the associated hazards and risks in 
the manufacturing process. 
	y
Substance abuse control for outsourced employees of the Consumer 
Foods industry group.
Leisure
	y
Internal auditor qualification programmes were conducted to train 
compliance executives on ISO 22000, ISO 14001 and ISO 45001 
at 'Cinnamon Bey Beruwala', 'Cinnamon Wild Yala' and 'Cinnamon 
Lakeside Colombo'.
	y
Programmes on workplace hazards awareness and chemical 
handling training.
	y
Emergency preparedness and awareness on business continuity plan 
(BCP) and BCP Drills.
	y
Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Consequence Policy initiative 
to create awareness related to HSE Consequences and how to 
address related issues.
	y
Conducting programmes on Food Safety - Legionella training on 
food safety, Lobster Link Training programme on food safety, food 
poisoning and allergen awareness session.
	y
Training and programmes on child protection, grooming and hygiene. 
	y
Awareness programmes on breast cancer and AIDS at 'Ellaidhoo 
Maldives by Cinnamon'.	
The effectiveness of the above trainings are assessed based on the 
employee feedback and frequent evaluation programmes. As practical 
measures, mock drills are conducted to test the effectiveness of the 
trainings conducted.

86 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
HUMAN CAPITAL REVIEW
ATTRITION
The Group closely monitors attrition, with a particular focus on 
addressing attrition in Industry Groups which experience relatively 
higher rates due to nature of the business and competitive market 
conditions for talent attraction. During the year under review, the 
Group's attrition rate was 28%. The Group continues to work on 
adopting measures to manage attrition.
Total number of employees who exited during FY 2023/24
No.
Composition (%)
by Gender
Male
5,177
59
Female
3,560
41
by Age
Below 30
7,324
84
Between 30-50
1,248
14
Above 50
165
2
by Region
Local
8,630
99
Foreign
107
1
Total number of new hires who exited in FY2023/24
No.
Composition (%)
by Gender
Male
1,451
57
Female
1,078
43
by Age
Below 30
2,363
93
Between 30-50
150
6
Above 50
16
1
by Region
Local
2,529
100
Foreign
-
-
   Key business risks associated with Human Capital
	y
Regulatory environment.
	y
Global competition including availability of key skills and 
changing working demographics.
	y
Human resources and talent management including readiness 
to respond to risks, rising employee benefits and pension costs.
	y
Health and safety.  
Refer Risk, Opportunities and Controls Review.
Management Approach 
The Group has strategic human capital initiatives in place for effective 
human capital management that optimises human potential. Policies 
relating to all aspects of human resources, including labour relations, 
training, equal opportunity and health and safety of its workforce are 
in place outlining the Group's stance on these topics. Furthermore, 
the Group facilitates employee career development through a 
structured process of identification of development goals and requisite 
investment in training and development in line with the competency 
framework of the Group. Whilst continuous feedback is given to 
employees on their performance, formal Performance appraisals are 
conducted on an annual basis for all staff in employment.
The Group's operating structure is designed in a manner that ensures 
all key people-related decisions are made by committees, and not by 
individuals. Such people related decisions are based on the strategic 
requirements of the Group and of each business unit. Decisions relating 
to hiring, performance, promotion, learning and development, career 
development, compensation management, talent management 
and reward and recognition are also made in this manner, ensuring 
meritocracy rules at every stage of an employee's journey in the Group.  
The Group's human resource information platform (HRIS) HIVE, 
enables systematic management of its Human Capital, ranging from 
recruitment, onboarding, performance management learning and 
development, and employee engagement, to recognition and rewards.
The achievement of its strategic initiatives lies with the 
operationalisation of policies at business unit-level which is monitored 
via metrics such as attrition, diversity, training hours per employee and 
health and safety incidences.
The Group is an equal opportunity employer and continues to 
implement benchmark practices to drive diversity and inclusivity. 
Diversity and Equal Opportunity
The Group maintains a sustained focus on employee diversity, equity, 
and inclusion. It has in place a DE&I Policy, a Gender Policy, and a 
Persons With Disabilities (PWD) policy monitoring the diversity of 
its workforce and continuously works on ensuring that the Group's 
workforce is truly diverse and has equal opportunities. 
Since 2015, the Group has used inclusive language in all its 
policies with the Code of Conduct and Group policies reflecting its 
commitment towards non-discrimination. The culture of inclusion 
is promoted internally with the support of awareness sessions and 
forums as well as strategic ONE JKH (the Group's DE&I Brand) initiatives 
across the Group.
Talent attraction and Retention
Staff retention continues to be closely monitored by both HR and 
Business heads, with the Group tracking attrition of employees 
identified as 'Talent' at both a sector and Group level, paying particular 
attention to the career development of such personnel, with ongoing 
dialogue to understand and manage aspirations and ensure retention.

Performance Appraisals
All Group employees undergo regular appraisals aimed at driving 
performance and receive feedback and support in order to improve areas 
of development. The Group performance management policy requires 
bi-annual formal feedback to be provided to the executive cadre and to 
all others at least once a year, whilst continuously recording and obtaining 
feedback on performance via the HRIS throughout the year.
Employee Recognition
Employee recognition and rewards are carried out at a Group level 
through the Chairperson's Awards including awards for Innovation, CSR 
and Sustainability. In addition, each sector and business unit rewards and 
recognises employee performance and values through schemes such as 
'Employee of the Year', 'Champion of the Year', 'HIVE Badges' and 'Bravo'. 
Peer to peer recognition is also enabled via functionalities available on 
Hive, the Group's HRIS, such as badges and peer feedback.
Learning and development
The Group places great emphasis on capacity and skill building through 
human capital investment, and employees are provided development 
opportunities towards enhancing skills, and competencies, for personal 
and leadership growth required to address current and future needs. 
The Group has identified nine success drivers which will serve as the 
foundation of leadership development, talent attraction, and learning 
and development initiatives. The Group's learning and development 
philosophy and practices are flexible and dynamic, accommodating 
lifelong learning crucial to building sustainable competitive advantage. 
The Group has always fostered a culture of learning, where people and 
organisational development have been at the forefront. As technology 
continues to transform the corporate landscape, the ways in which people 
learn constantly evolve, and the Group remains agile and adept towards 
aligning with this learning environment.
Sustaining a robust culture of learning, complemented by development 
focused systems and processes enable learning to be accessible, relevant, 
and more personalised. Industry Groups such as Leisure, Consumer Foods, 
Retail, and Financial Services – Insurance have dedicated learning and 
development teams that design and implement customised initiatives, 
while supervisors are empowered and assigned development goals to 
mentor and coach employees on an ongoing basis.
Career development programmes and coaching initiatives focusing 
on leadership development, learning engagement opportunities that 
encourage knowledge-share and social learning are encouraged and 
recognised at every level.
Employee Relations and Collective bargaining
The Group is committed to engaging with its people in the spirit of 
open dialogue aimed at improving the employee experience. Such 
engagements are reinforced by an open door policy, skip-level meetings 
and engagement platforms such as joint consultative committees and 
collective bargaining discussions. 
Formal collective bargaining agreements are found in the manufacturing 
segments such as in the Consumer Foods and Retail industry groups, 
while Tea Small holder Factories (TSF) in the Plantation Services sector 
customarily follow the wage structures of the plantation industry of the 
country. Additionally, the resort hotels have entered into memoranda of 
understanding with staff representatives.
Employee benefit plans
The Group adheres to the statutory provisions regarding superannuation 
and best in class Insurance benefits. In some instances, as in the case 
of Private Provident Funds in Sri Lanka, the company exceeds the legal 
minimum requirements in the interests of securing a better benefit for its 
employees.  
The Group offers flexible working and remote working wherever feasible 
which is a benefit valued by employees who appreciate the work-life 
balance that such policies afford. 
Employee Engagement
The Group conducts periodic employee engagement surveys with the 
aim of listening to its employees and obtaining direct feedback on the 
employee experience. Going beyond quantitative and qualitative survey 
mechanisms, the Group also conducts focus group discussions to better 
understand the feedback provided in such surveys. 
The introduction of Parental leave of one hundred days and Adoption 
leave in addition to seven days of sick leave were among actions taken 
based on feedback received via the employee engagement surveys. 
The Group also provides opportunities to its staff to make a contribution 
beyond their routine job roles by such mechanisms as innovation teams 
and, CSR volunteerism programmes. There is regular communication with 
employees using channels such as group emails, social media forums and 
other e-communication channels.    
Health and Safety
The Group places prime importance on occupational health and safety for 
its workforce. Driven by the John Keells Group's health and safety policy, 
all business units within the Group have been empowered to undertake 
any measure deemed necessary to ensure that it is a 'Safe Place to Work'. 
The Group strives to ensure that its work environment is safe and enabling 
with health and safety, given the high importance at industry group level in 
accordance with all legal and regulatory requirements, while maintaining 
international health and safety standards as appropriate.
All the business units adhere to the occupational health and safety standards 
as there is no legal requirement specified to be complied with health and 
safety standards in the country's legislation. Therefore, all Industry Groups 
of the Group comply with ISO 45001 standard on occupational health and 
safety and have their respective industry group health and safety committee 
to ensure compliance. Whilst maintaining ISO 450001, the sectors have 
adopted additional health and safety guidelines specific to each of the 
sectors to enable health and safety to its employees as well as consumers. 
Consumer Foods
	y
ISO 450001 : 2018
	y
ISO 220000
Leisure
	y
ISO 14001
	y
ISO 220000
	y
Travel life goal 
certificate
Transportation
	y
ISO 22000
	y
ISO 45001
Property
	y
ISO 45001
Retail
	y
ISO 45001
	y
GMP
Plantation Services
	y
ISO 45001
	y
ISO 22000
Health & Safety Standards followed by Industry Groups
87
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information

HUMAN CAPITAL REVIEW
Consumer foods
Transportation
Leisure
Plantation 
Services
Task, equipment and location based health and 
safety risk assessment/ SHE House APP/ Gemba 
walks by top management
Yearly review of hazard identification and risk 
assessment  
Task and operational based health and safety 
risk assessment
Risk assessment including all health-related 
activities of all departments/Identification of the 
risk factors considering probability and severity - 
ergonomics
The Group follows a carefully designed process to identify the health 
and safety risks and hazards and to set ways to mitigate and prevent the 
identified risks. 
	y
Identification of risks and hazards is conducted by each industry group 
using different methods based on the nature of their operations. 
Sector
Process or systems to identify health related 
risks/hazards
	y
The effectiveness of the risk identification process is assessed by the 
OHS professionals appointed at each industry group. The results of the 
process of risk identification are continuously used throughout the 
operations to improve OHS Management systems. 
	y
To work on maintaining this standard, each of the Industry Groups has 
formal health and safety committees. This ensures the participation of 
all employees and workers in the OHS process. These committees hold 
annual/bi-annual /monthly meetings for the evaluation of the OHS 
process.   
	y
The improvement points captured through that process are formally 
discussed with the OHS committees and immediate action are taken to 
address any gaps. 
	y
To eliminate and mitigate the identified health and safety risks, the 
Industry Groups use a common methodology consisting of five steps - 
Elimination, Substitution, Engineering Controls, Administrative Controls 
and Personal Protective Equipment (PPE).
	y
Reporting of work-related hazards or such situations and maintenance 
of incident reports are mandatory for all businesses. Records and 
reports on rates of injury, lost days, and total number of work-related 
casualties among its workforce, including contractors' personnel are 
recorded across all businesses. Minor occupational injuries or diseases 
that cause an employee to be unable to report to work for less than 
one day have been excluded from reporting, although records are 
maintained for such injuries which allow for root cause analysis and 
implementation of any preventive action if required.
	y
These statistics are monitored through the Group's management 
processes including attendance registers and accident logs and is 
furthermore captured on the Group's sustainability IT platform and is 
considered within the Group's risk management framework. 
	y
In addition to routine awareness trainings, awareness sessions are also 
conducted to avoid similar incidents in the future.
Key Policies
The John Keells Group is committed to ensuring a safe working 
environment for its employees and prides itself in providing a 
'Safe Place to Work'. The Group is similarly committed towards 
its contractors and visitors who are involved in any business or 
transaction with the John Keells Group.
The John Keells Group does not engage children in employment. As 
a general practice, the Group does not employ any person below the 
age of eighteen years at the workplace.
No employee of the John Keells Group is forced to work against his/
her will or is subject to corporal punishment or coercion of any type 
related to work.
The John Keells Group is an equal opportunity employer. Accordingly, 
the Group is committed to hiring, developing and promoting 
individuals who best meet the requirements of available positions, 
possess the required competencies, experience and qualifications to 
carry out assigned tasks and have the potential for growth within the 
organisation.
The John Keells Group places the highest value on ethical practices, 
with a zero-tolerance policy towards corruption and bribery in all its 
transactions.
Policy on Health and Safety
Policy on Child Labour
Policy on Forced or Compulsory Labour
Policy on Equal Opportunities
Anti-Corruption Policy
The John Keells Group recognises the importance of diversity, 
equity, inclusion and the role it plays in ensuring workplace respect, 
organisational success and sustainability for all stakeholders.
The John Keells Group is committed to providing a safe environment 
for all its employees free from discrimination on any ground and from 
harassment at work including sexual harassment. The Group will 
operate a zero-tolerance policy for any form of sexual harassment in 
the workplace, treat all incidents seriously and promptly investigate 
all allegations of sexual harassment ensuring appropriate corrective 
action.
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Policy
Policy Against Sexual Harassment
88 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24

SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL REVIEW
Purchases from local 
suppliers
86%
FY23 – 81%
Persons impacted through 
community engagement
1,952,511
FY23 – 1,553,971
Spend on CSR 
 
 Rs.187 million
FY23 – Rs.397 million
Building sustainable relationships with customers, suppliers, community and all other stakeholders 
is pivotal to the Group to unlock long-term sustainable value. Interventions are strategically 
designed to foster lasting positive effects, actively influencing the multitude of stakeholders the 
Group engages with. This approach builds trust and fosters relationships with all parties involved, 
concurrently establishing enabling mechanisms and supportive eco-systems. The discussion on 
Social and Relationship Capital comprises of two parts:
(1)	 A performance analysis of main focus areas of the Group's Social and Relationship Capital 
during the year under review 
(2)	 Management approach to managing Social and Relationship Capital
“Developing sustainable 
livelihoods through 
relevant skills, capacity 
and infrastructure 
enhancement towards 
building empowered and 
sustainable communities.”
Key highlights of the year:
Social Responsibility*
Education
	y
English and IT scholarships provided to children from underserved 
Government schools for better higher education and career prospects.
	y
Higher education scholarships encouraged disadvantaged youth to 
pursue Advanced Level and University education.
	y
University students improved their career readiness through Soft 
Skills workshops.
	y
Tab devices and data packages enabled online learning for selected 
school children in Colombo 2, Ja-ela, and Ranala.
	y
Career guidance sessions were conducted for Ordinary and 
Advanced Level students in Colombo.
	y
A customised teacher training programme was launched in 
Habarana to boost motivation among students and teachers.
Health
	y
School meal programme continued to support children, enhancing 
their nutrition, attendance, and learning engagement.
	y
Targeted awareness sessions on Gender Based Violence, Child 
Protection, and Substance Abuse Prevention were conducted to 
foster social well-being, cohesion and productivity of students, 
teachers, Government officials, police officers, lawyers and the 
general public.
	y
The Supermarket business continued the food redistribution project, 
and farmer food waste reduction project.
Livelihood Development
	y
Selected youth and SMEs (primarily women-based) around Group 
business locations continued to be supported under 'John Keells 
Praja Shakthi' with relevant skills, capacity, infrastructure and markets 
for sustainable livelihoods and income.
	y
The 'Keells Govidiri' programme was continued strengthening the 
agripreneurs, especially youth and female farmers.
	y
The Supermarket business continued to provide assistance to micro, 
small and medium enterprises (MSME) in collaboration with USAID.
Focus Areas and priority SDGs under Social and Relationship Capital
SDG's Impacted through Initiatives:
No Poverty
Fostering sustainable livelihoods through relevant skills, capacity and 
infrastructure enhancement towards poverty alleviation.
Zero Hunger
End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition, and promote 
sustainable agriculture
Good Health and Well-Being
Fostering healthy communities towards enhancing well-being and 
productivity.
Quality Education
Providing better access to educational opportunities towards enhancing 
employability and entrepreneurship.
Gender Equality
Working towards gender empowerment through skill development and 
infrastructure enhancement, eliminating gender-based violence through 
awareness and capacity building.
Clean Water and Sanitation
Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all.
Decent Work and Economic Growth
Developing sustainable livelihoods through relevant skills, capacity and 
infrastructure enhancement towards building empowered and sustainable 
communities.
Entrenching sustainability into supply chains, building mutually beneficial 
relationships and livelihoods development.
89
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information

90 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
  Knowledge Sharing and Policy Dialogues 
Page 97
  Supply Chain Management 
Page 91
  Social Responsibility 
Page 92
  Corporate Citizenship 
Page 99
90 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2022/23
Arts and Culture
	y
'Kala Pola', Sri Lanka's premier open air art fair, was held for the 31st 
year under the long-term collaboration between the George Keyt 
Foundation and the Group. 
	y
JKF grants and in-kind support were provided to seven 
institutions, including the Museum of Modern and Contemporary 
Art Sri Lanka and The Gratiaen Trust, to safeguard and promote 
visual, performing, and literary arts and crafts in Sri Lanka.
	y
JKF was the patron sponsor of the inaugural Matara Arts Festival 
– a contemporary art and jazz-explorative music festival in Matara 
organised by the Mangala Samaraweera Foundation.
Disaster Relief
	y
Facilitated well restoration efforts in flood-affected areas.
*Captures the key initiatives under the focus areas of the Group's Corporate Social Responsibility entity, John Keells Foundation. Initiatives under the 'Environment' pillar are captured 
under the Natural Capital Review.  
Focus Areas
The Group places emphasis on identifying, measuring and managing its 
focus areas under Social and Relationship Capital through policies and 
processes which enable the Group to function responsibly, whilst being 
mindful of all stakeholders and leveraging on opportunities to create a 
positive impact.
 	CUSTOMER RELATIONS AND PRODUCT 
RESPONSIBILITY
The Group's relationship with clients, the market and society are 
underpinned by ethics and independence and is pivotal in ensuring 
the sustainability of the business. These values are crucial not only in 
maintaining trust and credibility but also in ensuring the long-term 
viability of the business. Actively seeking input from stakeholders on 
the ground through satisfaction surveys and other feedback channels 
not only pave the path for direct interactions, but also guide to identify 
areas for enhancement, strengthen relationships, and adapt to evolving 
market dynamics.
	y
The Group develops and markets products and services with the 
highest level of product quality and safety standards which meet 
customer requirements whilst ensuring customer health and safety.
	y
The Group follows the International Chamber of Commerce Code of 
Advertising and Marketing Communication for all its products and 
services.
	y
The Group adheres to all product labelling requirements stated in all 
relevant laws and regulations in its operating countries.
  Customer Relations and Product Responsibility 
Page 90
Focus Areas
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL REVIEW
SDG's Impacted through Initiatives:
Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure
Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable 
industrialisation, and foster innovation.
Reduce inequality within and among countries
Empowering and promoting social, economic and political inclusion and 
ensuring equal opportunity and equity.
Sustainable Cities and Communities
Nurturing the livelihoods and social well-being of local communities, 
promoting Sri Lankan Arts and Culture and preserving the cultural heritage.
Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions
Promoting peace and justice and strengthening institutions including youth 
and women-based structures through community and livelihood programmes; 
eliminating violence, especially against women and children through capacity 
building and awareness creation at multiple levels including the general public.
Partnership for goals
Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalise the global 
partnership for sustainable development.
The Group's product related information is found in the relevant Industry 
Group Review section of the Annual Report 2023/24.

91
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Consumer Foods industry group
Of the 380 stock keeping units (SKUs) manufactured:
	y
100% carried information on the ingredients used
	y
5% carried information on raw materials sourced
	y
77% carried information on safe use
	y
95% on responsible disposal of products
Retail industry group
Of the 457 SKUs sourced by JMSL for private labelling:
	y
58% carried information on the ingredients used
	y
1% carried information on raw materials sourced
	y
47% carried information on safe use
	y
97% on responsible disposal of products
    SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
The Group recognises the importance of collaboration and the need 
to create long-term value, encompassing environmental, social, and 
economic aspects, for all stakeholders. 
	y
The Group's Supplier Code of Conduct continued to be included 
along with standard contracts across the Group sourced suppliers.
	y
Annual supplier newsletter on Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DE&I) 
was continued for the fourth consecutive year to promote a culture 
of diverse and inclusive work environment within the supply chain. 
	y
During the year under review, supplier forums were carried out for 42 
Group sourced suppliers under the theme 'Partnering for health and 
safety excellence' to improve awareness creation on sustainability-
related topics. Supplier assessments were also carried out on 83 
suppliers.
The significant suppliers of industry groups of the Group are identified 
below.
Transportation
Outsourced vehicle fleets
Goods for warehouse storage 
and distributions
Maintenance, support 
services, and outsourced 
employees
Capital equipment
Consumer Foods
Dairy
Poultry
Sugar
Glass bottle
Plastic 
packaging
Retail
Dry food 
products
Frozen 
and chilled 
products
Fresh meat
Vegetable and 
fruits
Household 
items
Third party 
tenants (within 
premises)
Outsourced 
service 
providers
Financial Services
Reinsurance partners
Outsourced service providers
Bancassurance partners
Leisure
Cinnamon 
Hotels & Resorts
Food and beverage and 
amenities
Travel agents and 
travel websites
Casual workers
Destination 
Management
Hotels and other 
accommodation 
providers
Contracted 
retail stores
Freelance 
national guides
Jeeps and 
boats
Foreign travel 
agents and tour 
operators
Outsourced 
fleet
Other, including 
Information 
Technology 
and Plantation 
Services
Other and 
Information 
Technology
Strategic 
software 
partners
Expert skill/ 
knowledge 
partners
Outsourced 
operational 
functions
Outsourced 
support staff
Outsourced 
service 
providers
Transportation 
providers
Plantation 
Services
Tea smallholder farmers
Tea plantations
Property
Property 
Development
Construction contractors
Architects and interior designers
RHL
Food, beverage and 
amenities
Travel agents and 
travel websites
Casual employees
The Group's product related information is found in the relevant Industry Group Review section of the  
Annual Report 2023/24.
Product Labelling and Responsible Communication

92 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL REVIEW
Industry group-wise highlights of supply chain 
management initiatives 
Consumer Foods
	y
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC purchased a total of 6,937,266 kg of produce 
from 14,135 farmers during the year, thereby contributing to their 
livelihoods.
Product 
Total annual 
supply (kg)
Number of 
farmers
Meat
2,535,690
2,530
Spices
49,766
2,500
Cashew nuts
68,845
1,210
Vanilla
395
3,500
Kithul jaggery
31,630
650
Vegetables
128,842
30
Treacle
89,310
215
Fresh milk
4,032,788
3,500
Retail
	y
Under the 'Keells Govidiri' programme initiated by JMSL, an average 
volume of 156,420 Kg of products were sourced in 2023/24 through 
agripreneurs, valued at ~Rs.58 million. Through this programme the 
Supermarket business strives to ensure consistency in production 
and availability of produces sourced through the agripreneurs. 
Leisure
	y
Audits were conducted on key suppliers of 'Cinnamon Hotels & 
Resorts' and the central purchasing office.
	y
158 suppliers participated in the awareness sessions which were 
carried out covering topics such as quality, environmental practices 
and health and safety.
    SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
During the year under review, the Group continued to drive its CSR 
vision of 'Empowering the Nation for Tomorrow', through the established 
six focus areas of the John Keells Foundation (JKF), namely, education, 
health, livelihood development, environment, arts and culture and 
disaster relief. 
Education
The Group's education initiatives are designed with the vision of bridging 
identified critical gaps to support progression from education to 
employability and entrepreneurship. These include a targeted approach 
through customised programmes for school children and teachers in 
Praja Shakthi locations, career skills for university students, scholarships 
and financial support for economically disadvantaged students. 
Soft Skills Workshop for Undergraduates of the University of Colombo
	 English Language Scholarship Programme and 
Moratuwa University Transport and Logistics 
Degree Programme Scholarship
English, IT and soft skills scholarships under two tiers for  
12-14 year students nominated from disadvantaged schools;  
a customised total immersion camp in English and soft skills for 
Engineering undergraduates of the University of Moratuwa.
	 Digital Learning Initiative
Provision of digital devices and data packages to support online 
education of children nominated from selected disadvantaged 
schools, in collaboration with Deutsche Bank, Dialog Axiata PLC 
and John Keells Office Automation.
	
Customised Programmes for Schools
A phased teacher training programme initiated in Habarana 
together with the Zonal Education Office, Kekirawa, targeting 
positive mindset creation among teachers and students in the 
aftermath of the pandemic and economic crisis in Sri Lanka.
	
Higher Education Scholarship
Monthly need-based grants to pursue GCE Advanced Level 
and University education.
	 Career Guidance Programme
Skills, knowledge and exposure for youth aged between 17-22 to 
enhance employability and entrepreneurship.
	 University Soft Skills
Soft skills training to enhance the employability and 
entrepreneurship of university graduates.
Empowered the lives of 
7,114 students in 2023/24

93
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Strategic Interventions:
	y
During the year in review JKF's Project WAVE (Working Against 
Violence through Education) continued to make significant strides 
in promoting child protection and addressing gender-based 
violence (GBV). Through a strategic partnership with Sri Lanka 
Police, JKF supported the Children and Women's Bureau in the 
establishment of a Crime Investigation Unit through sponsorship 
of essential software towards efficiently addressing cyber-crimes 
especially targeting women and children including the tracking 
and recording of perpetrators through a global tracking system.
	y
A nutrition awareness programme was piloted during the year 
in collaboration with Scaling Up Nutrition People's Forum as 
a means of developing good practices and habits of school 
children including school gardening and formation of nutrition 
clubs in schools. This initiative will replace the 'Pasal Diriya' 
school meal programme, which will be phased off at the end of 
the reporting year in consideration of the country context. 
Transforming Futures: English Language Scholarship 
Programme
“In 2023 I got selected to the University of Moratuwa for the Hons. 
Degree in Transport Management and Logistic Engineering (BSc 
T&LM). The programme is conducted in English. The foundation I 
received through the ELSP has given me the confidence to come to 
Colombo and pursue my degree. Our lectures and assignments are 
all in English and I am able to learn thanks to ELSP” 
Jenuya Jokarasa
ELSP Beneficiary, 2020
Health
Training of Trainers programme on sensitive and effective police responses on GBV and 
Child protection for officers attached to Gampaha Police Division.
	
Career Opportunities for Undergraduates
	y
The Supermarket business offered career advancement 
through its Retail Management Trainee Programme, 
facilitating recruits and employees to pursue managerial roles. 
	y
Knowledge-sharing sessions on retail and substantial 
job placements are provided to undergraduates from 
state universities. Undergraduates are also provided the 
opportunity to learn about the operations of the Supermarket 
business's state-of-the-art distribution centre.
	y
'Cinnamon Wild Yala' facilitated knowledge-sharing sessions 
for students of the Vocational Training Authority, focusing on 
the hospitality industry.
	
Educational Support for School Children
	y
The Supermarket businesses partnered with Sri Lanka Unites 
for the Seasonal Book and Stationery donation campaign, 
through proceeds from the 'Keells' green bag initiative. 
	y
TSFL supported Grade five students in Halwitigala, Neluwa, 
and Kurupanawa by organising a seminar on the Grade five 
scholarship examination and distributed stationery to students.
	y
The Insurance business supported:
•	 selected preschools in Matara and schools in Balangoda 
with educational support.
•	 access to clean and safe drinking water for five schools in 
Polonnaruwa.
	y
'Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts' made various donations to 
schools and child development centres in its vicinity.
	
School Nutrition Programmes
Address nutritional health and well-being of students via 
daily school meals, school gardening and nutrition awareness 
in collaboration with the Ministry of Education and Group 
businesses CCS, 'Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts' and John Keells 
Properties.
	
Promoting Child Protection
Strategically implement mechanisms to enhance and sustain 
child protection, especially in the Leisure industry group, John 
Keells Praja Shakthi locations, and the broader community.
The focus area of 'Health' encompasses a blend of supporting 
community well-being and resilience while combating critical social 
issues impeding productivity and social health such as gender-based 
violence, child abuse and substance abuse.
Number of Lives Impacted
Number of Lives Impacted
English and Other Skills
Digital Learning Initiative
Motivation & Wellbeing Programme
Higher Education Scholarship
Programme
Career Guidance Programme
Soft Skills Workshops
Career Opportunities for Youth
Educational Support
English and Other Skills
Digital Learning Initiative
Motivation & Wellbeing Programme
Higher Education Scholarship
Programme
Career Guidance Programme
Soft Skills Workshops
Career Opportunities for Youth
Educational Support
960 
131
38
99
219
915
127
4,625
Empowered the lives of 
1,325,631people in 2023/24

94 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL REVIEW
Empowering Change: Combating Gender-Based Violence
“We learned a lot of important things that we didn't know of before. 
It taught us to pay attention to what victims say, listen carefully, and 
figure out the main problem. We also learned about 'patriarchy' 
in the community, especially when working with males. We now 
understand how to effectively educate them, and as police officers, 
how to navigate certain situations. We're excited to use what we 
learned to make a positive impact in our community.”
A police officer
Gampaha Police Division 
Livelihood Development – Praja Shakthi
A farmer beneficiary under the Beekeeping Project in Habarana
During the reporting year, JKF's 'John Keells Praja Shakthi' continued its 
endeavours to identify and empower communities around selected 
business locations, building mutually beneficial stakeholder relationships 
with the respective Group businesses including supply chain alignments 
as well as networking with Government agencies towards catalysing 
sustainable livelihoods. Empowerment initiatives have included upskilling 
and training on sustainable livelihoods, financial literacy awareness 
and enhanced market opportunities. Community interventions were 
assessed and customised to the needs of each location and planned 
and implemented in collaboration with the related Group businesses. 
Moreover, a livelihood survey was conducted in Colombo 2 during the 
reporting year with the overarching goal of evaluating the socio-economic 
landscape of residents of three Grama Niladhari Divisions, exploring 
existing livelihood opportunities in and around the location and assessing 
the potential for enhancing their socio-economic status.
	
Combating Gender-Based Violence, through 
Project WAVE (Working Against Violence through 
Education)
Combat gender-based violence (GBV) through strategic 
partnerships including Sri Lanka Police and electronic media 
networks.
	
Substance Abuse Prevention
Proactively engage in capacity development of teachers as well 
as the early childhood development sector including parents and 
subject Government officers in fostering preventative awareness, 
in collaboration with National Dangerous Drugs Control Board, 
Humedica Lanka and local Government bodies.
	
Donation to 'Suwa Seriya' (island-wide free 
emergency ambulance service)
Ambulance repairs, medical equipment repair, replacement of 
medical equipment and staff training, safety equipment and 
uniforms.
	
Food Redistribution Project
'Keells' Food Redistribution Project assisted deserving individuals 
and communities in the vicinity of the 'Keells' outlets by providing 
excess fresh produce and distributing food for lunch and dinner.
	
Medical Camp
A medical camp was jointly organised by TSFL and the 
Thawalama Divisional Secretariat for leaf suppliers and the 
Thawalama Community.
	
Blood Donation Camp
TFSL and 'Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts' organised blood donation 
camps during the year.
School Nutrition Programmes
Project WAVE
Substance Abuse Prevention
Suwa Seriya
Food Redistribution Project
Community Health Projects
School Nutrition Programmes
Project WAVE
Substance Abuse Prevention
Suwa Seriya
Food Redistribution Project
Community Health Projects
540,198
382,191
17,485
375,603
5,000
5,154
Number of Lives Impacted
Number of Lives Impacted
Empowered the lives of 
512,889 people in 2023/24

95
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
	 Mushroom Project – 'Praja Shakthi' – Ja-Ela
A collaboration with the Ja-Ela Divisional Secretariat and 
KFP, this initiative aims to expand the number of mushroom 
farmers in Ja-Ela, catering to market demand while enhancing 
entrepreneurship and sustainable income generation, particularly 
among women.
	 Beekeeping Project – Praja Shakthi – Habarana
A collaboration with the 'Cinnamon' hotels in Habarana, this 
initiative aims to enhance entrepreneurship and income 
generation, particularly among women in the community. 
Support is also extended through a buy-back mechanism of 
bees' honey via 'Cinnamon Hotels and Resorts'.
	
Paper Project – Praja Shakthi – Ranala
A collaboration with the 'Elephant House' factory in Ranala, this 
initiative continued to support the 'Batewela Ranliya Women's 
Society of Ranala' who are engaged in paper-based product 
development. This is the third successive year of this initiative.
	
Hikka Batiks – Praja Shakthi – Hikkaduwa
A collaboration with 'Hikka Tranz by Cinnamon', this initiative 
aims to support batik artisans in Hikkaduwa. Continuing for the 
fourth successive year, this enables sustained income generation 
for the women artisans and their families.
	 Experiential Tourism – Praja Shakthi – Hikkaduwa
A collaboration with Cinnamon Nature Trails and Walkers Tours, 
this initiative aims to create shared value for the community of 
Horivila village and businesses involved.
	
Home Gardening
A home gardening competition was conducted as Phase 2 of a 
crisis resilience initiative involving communities in the vicinity of 
'Elephant House' factories, and 'Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts'.
	 Sustainable Farming
Farmer support in best agri practices was continued through 
Phase 2 of a crisis resilience initiative to support the maintenance 
of livelihoods in selected farming communities, providing 
farming inputs, equipment, knowledge, and technical support.
	 Supporting MSMEs
A partnership has been established between 'Keells' and USAID 
to enhance the competitiveness and resilience of 'Keells' MSMEs 
(Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises), aiming to uplift standards 
and empower them.
	
Keells Govidiri
'Keells Govidiri' strengthens the capacity of agripreneurs, with a 
particular focus on youth and female farmers, through safe and 
consumer-driven practices to ensure consistency in production and 
availability. This initiative also guarantees that certain fresh products 
available at outlets are sourced entirely from greenhouses.
	
Microgrants to Deserving Communities
The 'Keells Microgrants' initiative allocated a set budget to 
selected store outlets, enabling them to engage with and support 
deserving communities during the period's seasonal celebrations.
	
Keells 'Praja Diriya'
The Praja Diriya Project supports small-scale suppliers, vendors, 
and small business owners by providing space at the car parks at 
'Keells' outlets for selling their products.
	
Farmer Food Waste Reduction
'Keells' Project Imperfect Vegetables minimises waste at collection 
centres by maximising the use of imperfect vegetables, targeting 
consumers, and providing vital support to farmers.
	
Business Process Outsourcing
Infomate (Private) Limited together with JKF continued their 
long-term partnership with Foundation for Advancing Rural 
Opportunities in supporting the rural BPOs in Mahavilachchiya, 
Seenigama and Jaffna engaged in sustained work outsourced by 
Infomate, carried out within their own localities.
	
Cinnamon Rainforest Restoration
The Cinnamon Rainforest Restoration Project aims to reforest 59 
acres of land in the wet zone of the country, creating a habitat 
for unique species of flora and fauna that are restricted to this 
region. This project not only helps conserve biodiversity but 
also provides livelihood opportunities, sustaining local families. 
Community engagement is crucial as the local community acts 
as the custodian of the land. Fifteen local families have actively 
participated in project activities such as site preparation, tree 
planting, and invasive species control. Moreover, community 
plant nurseries has been established, directly benefiting the local 
economy by purchasing required plants.
	
Community Empowerment Projects
JKF continued to support the maintenance of Kompanna Vidiya 
Railway Station for the benefit of 510,994 commuters who travel 
to and from the city.
Several activities encompassing community welfare were 
conducted by the various Group Businesses that included 
distributing essentials to children's homes, organising cleaning 
campaigns, conducting awareness sessions, and supporting 
schools, community councils and elders home. These efforts 
aimed to foster community well-being and social inclusion.

96 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL REVIEW
Empowering Growth: Nishara's Journey with the 
Transformative Mushroom Project
“By engaging in the mushroom project, I am generating income 
to cover household expenses. While my husband's earnings 
support our family, having this additional income allows me the 
independence to provide for my three daughters without an issue. 
Now, I can purchase requirements without relying on my husband 
or burdening him.”
Nishara Fernando
Mushroom Entrepreneur
Figure 5: Kala Pola 2024
Arts and Culture
The Group is committed to the preservation and enhancement of arts 
and culture, recognising their vital role in safeguarding and promoting 
Sri Lanka's rich cultural heritage while nurturing the livelihoods and 
social well being of local communities. As such, the Group actively strives 
to foster social cohesion and enhance well-being through the powerful 
mediums of artistic and creative expression. The creative industries 
have the potential to contribute to significant GDP growth through the 
creative economy and these initiatives enhance tourism related products 
and activities.
	
Kala Pola
Sri Lanka's premier Open Air Art Fair presented in partnership 
with the Geoge Keyt Foundation, Kala Pola 2024, marked its 
31st year of showcasing the work of hundreds of visual artists 
from various parts of Sri Lanka. It provided a valuable platform 
for artists to connect with buyers and the wider art community 
while promoting social cohesion through healthy dialogue and 
knowledge creation.
	
Digital Art Gallery
The Sri Lankan Art Gallery is a free of charge online platform 
hosted by JKF for Sri Lankan visual artists to connect with 
potential buyers online throughout the year.
	
Museum of Modern and Contemporary Art (MMCA)
The Museum of Modern and Contemporary Art (MMCA) is a 
dedicated art museum that showcases Sri Lankan's modern 
and contemporary art, reshaping the art scene both locally and 
globally. In 2023/24, JKF supported the MMCA with the opening 
of its third and fourth exhibitions titled 'The Foreigners' and 
'88 Acres - Minnette De Silva's Watapuluwa Housing Scheme', 
respectively, as well as launch of its first publication titled 'Second 
Volume'. This was in addition to regular programmes such as 
programmes targeting the public, education institutions, gallery 
talks, curator's tours and outreach programmes. 
The MMCA has also catalysed international recognition for local 
artistic talent through its programming which has been featured 
in international art magazines and global cultural bodies.
	 Gratiaen Trust
JKF supported the Gratiaen Trust as primary sponsor which 
enabled the trust to support Sri Lankan authors writing in English 
or undertaking English translations of Sinhala and Tamil literature. 
The Gratiaen Trust activities included the annual Gratiaen 
Prize, workshops for target groups, outreach programmes and 
commemorative events.
	 'Matara for Arts' Festival
JKF was a patron sponsor of the inaugural three-day Matara for Arts 
– a contemporary art and jazz-explorative music festival in Matara 
organised by the Mangala Samaraweera Foundation (Freedom 
Hub). This event was aimed at building bridges of vibrant and 
educative exchange via arts with individuals from other parts of 
the country and diasporic and international collaborators. It also 
aimed to revitalise Matara and empower its community.
Mushroom Project
Beekeeping Project
Hikka Batiks Project
Home Gardening Project
Sustainable Farming Project
Supporting MSMEs
Keells Govidiri
Microgrants to Deserving Communities
Keells Praja Diriya
Cinnamon Rainforest Restoration
BPO
Other Community Empowerment
Projects
Mushroom Project
Beekeeping Project
Hikka Batiks Project
Home Gardening Project
Sustainable Farming Project
Supporting MSMEs
Keells Govidiri
Microgrants to Deserving Communities
Keells Praja Diriya
Cinnamon Rainforest Restoration
BPO
Other Community Empowerment
Projects
121
115
36
94
364
20
53
500
28
60
32
472
Number of Lives Impacted
Number of Lives Impacted
Empowered the lives of 
105,669 people in 2023/24

97
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Kala Pola: A Platform for Learning, Inclusivity and Equal 
Opportunity for All Artists
 “Hats off to the organisers of Kala Pola for organising this event 
very methodically without any chaos! This is the only platform in Sri 
Lanka which gives equal opportunity to all the artists without any 
discrimination. This was my first time at Kala Pola as an artist and I 
am glad that it ended successfully.”
Swarna Abeytunge
Artist, Kala Pola 2024
Disaster Relief
Assistance with well cleaning following floods
The Group remains steadfast in its commitment to supporting 
communities in times of need, a principle deeply embedded in the 
Group's corporate ethos. Throughout the years, JKF has played a leading 
role in relief efforts, responding swiftly and effectively to both post-
conflict challenges and natural disasters.
Knowledge Sharing and Policy Dialogues
Considering the Group's scale of operations, businesses benefit from 
being immersed in a diverse range of information across its industries of 
operation, providing a more holistic understanding of doing business. 
A part of the repertoire built is placed at the disposal of the Group's 
stakeholders in order to enhance the debate around the complex issues 
the Group addresses. 
Ongoing collaboration with the media, research institutions, studies, 
debates, and event sponsorship serve to illuminate and offer guidance 
on these complex issues. During the year under review, the Group 
continued to deploy such strategies to facilitate knowledge sharing and 
advocate for best practice.
	 Chitrasena Vajira Dance Foundation
JKF sponsored the Archival Project of the Chitrasena Vajira 
Dance Foundation (CVDF), focusing on systematically collecting, 
recording, and preserving historical material. The project involved 
comprehensive cataloguing, digitisation, and the creation of a 
web-based digital archive.
	
Sunera Support Workshop
Supported the Sunera workshop in Habaraduwa, Galle, focusing 
on creative activities for differently abled participants. This 
provided a space for artistic expression, fostering continuous 
skill development and social integration of differently abled 
participants.
	
Ena De Silva Exhibition
JKF was a sponsor of the second Ena De Silva exhibition and 
archival work of renowned batik artisan Ena De Silva, involving 
the identification and categorisation of selected sections of work.
	
George Keyt Foundation
Continued to provide logistical support for the George Keyt 
Foundation through the rent-free office space and associated 
overhead costs.
Restoration of two works of art by renowned artist George Keyt, 
held under JKH's patronage.
	
Sponsorship of Publication
Provided part sponsorship for the publication 'Veins of Influence, 
View of Sri Lanka: Early Colonial Photography and Collections' by 
Shalini Amerasinghe Ganendra. This endeavour seeks to bring 
early images of Sri Lanka (Ceylon) into the global discourse of 
photography and promote visual appreciation.
	 Access to Clean Drinking Water
Well cleaning activities conducted in flood-affected areas to 
facilitate access to clean and safe water sources for the affected 
communities.
Kala Pola
Sri Lankan Art Gallery  (Website)
Museum of Modern Art Colombo
The Gratiean Trust
Matara Festival for Arts
Aluvihare Heritage Centre
Sunera Foundation
Sponsorship of Publication
Kala Pola
Sri Lankan Art Gallery  (Website)
Museum of Modern Art Colombo
The Gratiean Trust
Matara Festival for Arts
Aluvihare Heritage Centre
Sunera Foundation
Sponsorship of Publication
38,745
31,512
29,636
967
4,048
675
36
50
Number of Lives Impacted
Number of Lives Impacted
Impacted the lives of 
255 people in 2023/24

98 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL REVIEW
A notable portion of Group employees remain active members of 
various organisations and associations spanning diverse industries, fields, 
and societal interests, where they disseminate and gain knowledge by 
serving on boards, executive committees and subject-matter working 
groups for the benefit of sustainable development, both for the 
organisation and the society at large.
The industry associations, other membership associations, and national 
or international advocacy organisations in which the Group participates 
in a significant capacity are noted below.
Industry 
Groups
Membership Associations
Transportation
Airport and Aviation Private Limited
Association of Licensed Bunker Operators of Sri Lanka 
(ALBOSL)  
Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport (CILT)
Civil Aviation Authority
Indo Lanka Chamber of Commerce
International Air Transportation Agents Association (IATA)
International Bunker Industry Association (IBIA)
Lanka Association of Ship Owners (LASO)
Ship Chandlers Association of Sri Lanka
Sri Lanka - Greater Mekong Business Council 
Sri Lanka - Malaysia Business Council
Sri Lanka - Pakistan Business Council
Sri Lanka Tourism Board
Consumer Foods
Ceylon Chamber of Commerce
Chamber of Commerce - Import Association
Employers' Federation of Ceylon (EFC)
Export Development Board
Lanka Confectionery Manufacturers Association
National Chamber of Commerce
National Chamber of Exporters
Sri Lanka - Italy Business Council
Sri Lanka Association of Testing Laboratories
Retail
Chamber of Commerce - Import Association
Sri Lanka - Australia - New Zealand Business Council
Sri Lanka Retailers Association
Leisure
American Chamber Of Commerce
Bentota Beruwala Hotel Association (BBHA)
Benelux Business Council
Biodiversity Sri Lanka 
Britain Business Council
Ceylon Chamber of Commerce
Ceylon Hotel School Graduates Association
Chef Guild of Sri Lanka
China Business Council
Cultural Triangle Hoteliers Association
Delegation of German Industry of Commerce
Employer's Federation of Ceylon (EFC)
European Network for Accessible Tourism 
Germany Business Council
Italy Business Council
Kandy Hoteliers Association
Industry 
Groups
Membership Associations
Leisure
Korean Business Council
Nordic Business Council
Pacific Asia Travel Association 
RateGain It Solutions Private Limited
Russia Business Council
SKAL International Colombo 
Sri Lanka Association of Inbound Tour Operators (SLAITO)
Sri Lanka Institute of Tourism and Hotel Management
Sri Lanka Tourism Development Authority
Sri Lanka Wellness Tourism Associate
The Ceylon Chamber of Commerce
The Employer's Federation of Ceylon
The Hotels Association of Sri Lanka (THASL)
Travel Trade Sports Club            
Wildlife Nature Protection Society 
Yala Hotel Association
Property
Chamber of Construction Industry of Sri Lanka
Ceylon Chamber of Commerce
Employers' Federation of Ceylon
Condominium Developers Association
Financial Services
Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE)
Employees Federation of Ceylon
Insurance Association of Sri Lanka(IASL)
Insurance Regulatory Commission of Sri Lanka (IRCSL)
Life Insurance and Market research Association
Sri Lanka Insurance Institute (SLII)
The Ceylon Chamber of Commerce
Other, including Information Technology and Plantation Services
American Chamber of Commerce
Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA)
Australian Tamil Chamber of Commerce (ATCC)
Benelux Business Council
Bureau Veritas
Ceylon Chamber of Commerce 
Chartered Accountants Sri Lanka (CA)
Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (Sri Lanka)
Colombo Brokers Association
Colombo Stock Exchange 
Colombo Tea Traders Association 
Council for Business with Britain
Employers' Federation of Ceylon  
European Chamber of Commerce (ECCSL)
Federation of Information Technology Industry Sri Lanka
Gold partnership of Microsoft
Global Sourcing Association (GSA)
Indo Lanka Chamber of Commerce and Industry
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka
International Chamber of Commerce Sri Lanka
International Tea Committee 
National Chamber of Commerce of Sri Lanka
Nordic Business Council
Planters' Association of Ceylon
SAP Australian User Group (SAUG)

	 Key business risks associated with Social and 
Relationship Capital
	y
Regulatory environment
	y
Environment and Health and safety
	y
Reputation and brand image
	y
Supply chain risks
	y
Information technology risks
Refer Risk, Opportunities and Controls Review
Industry 
Groups
Membership Associations
Other, including Information Technology 
and Plantation Services
Sri Lanka Association of Software and Service Companies 
(SLASSCOM) 
Sri Lanka Australia New Zealand business council
Sri Lanka France Business Council
Sri Lanka Institute of Directors 
Sri Lanka Maldives Business Council
Sri Lanka Nordic Business council
Sri Lanka Tea Board 
Sri Lanka Tea Factory Owners Association
Tea Research Board of Sri Lanka
The Association of Accounting Technicians Sri Lanka (AAT)
UN Global Compact
World Economic Forum
Management Approach
Business Conduct and Ethics
The Group holds itself to the highest ethical standards in all its business 
operations whilst committed to upholding the universal human rights of 
all its stakeholders. This is reinforced by the Group's zero-tolerance policy 
toward corruption and bribery in all its transactions. Whilst all business 
units and functions of the Group are required to analyse and include the 
risk of corruption as part of their risk management process, the Group's 
stringent checks during its recruitment process ensures that the minimum 
age requirements are met and all businesses are educated on the possible 
sources of forced and compulsory labour. The Group has zero tolerance 
for physical or verbal harassment based on gender identity, race, religion, 
nationality, age, social origin, disability, sexual orientation, political 
affiliations or opinion.
The Group is dedicated to upholding universal human rights of all its 
stakeholders while maintaining the highest ethical standards in all its 
business operations. Carrying out business in an ethical manner is a key 
value driver for the Group, upholding its valued brand reputation and is of 
high importance to its stakeholders.
The Group has formulated stringent policies governing the areas of child 
labour, forced labour, human rights and anti-corruption, prioritising ethical 
practices within the Group's operations and its value chain. The Group 
ensures that all companies are educated on the possible sources of forced 
and compulsory labour and are expected to respect and uphold the rights 
of employees to enter, remain and terminate employment. The Group 
seeks to ensure that ethical practices are business norms from the business 
unit-level down to the individual employee. Its transparent control and 
prevention mechanisms also extend to its value chain, customers, suppliers 
and business partners.
As per the Sri Lankan law, a 'Child' is defined as a person who is under 
the age of fourteen years while 'Young Worker' denotes a person who 
has attained the age of fourteen years but is under the age of eighteen 
years. The Group enforces a higher standard on the minimum age for 
employment than the statutory regulations and ILO conventions. Stringent 
checks followed during its recruitment process ensure the minimum age 
requirements are met. This also applies to Industry Groups such as Leisure 
and Consumer Foods which have a high degree of seasonal outsourced 
demand.
The Group provides necessary education to all companies on the possible 
sources of forced and compulsory labour. As per Group Policy, no 
employees of the Group should be forced or subject to overtime hours 
that exceed those stipulated by law, or subject to intimidation, nor are 
employees expected to surrender deposits or personal documents as 
an employment term. If a significant cost is allocated for a training to an 
employee, the employee is evaluated of the expectation that they will 
be required to work for a duration that does not exceed the value of the 
training provided.
Adequate compensation through overtime or variable pays which are 
in line with legal and industry norms are provided for employees that 
work beyond normal working hours, other than provided with meals and 
transport where appropriate.
The Group's equal opportunity policy is applied in the recruitment and 
promotion processes as well as in advertising for vacancies. In addition, 
John Keells Group is a member of the Employer Network on Disability of 
the Employer's Federation of Ceylon and currently provides employment 
opportunities for differently abled persons within the Group. The Group 
99
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
  CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP
The Group's role in society is defined by the Group's services and the 
manner in which the Group engages with its stakeholders. In this light, 
factors such as ethics, integrity, accountability, and transparency are 
crucial, as they have a significant influence on the Group's strategic 
direction.
Refer the Governance section for further details

follows zero tolerance towards physical or verbal harassment based on 
gender, race, religion, nationality, age, social origin, disability, political 
affiliations or opinion. Also, a comprehensive process is followed with 
regard to dealing with complaints regarding sexual harassment, with the 
option of seeking out either the Ombudsperson or an internal committee 
to tackle such an issue.
Every employee agrees to comply with the Group's Code of Conduct, 
Anti-Fraud and Policy Against Sexual Harassment, when accepting the 
terms and conditions of employment. All executive and above staff 
are essential to complete a mandatory learning course on the above-
mentioned policies, which is facilitated through the learning management 
system. Hence, all employees are familiarised with the conditions of the 
Group's Anti-Corruption policy, which also extends to any agents who 
are authorised representatives of the Group and are educated on human 
rights practices. Employees are expected to report any breach of the Code 
with the assurance of discretion and are provided with several channels 
to facilitate such reporting, such as Chairperson Direct, Ombudsperson 
service and business unit-specific grievance handling process. 
When considering the business units, each company has procedures and 
processes to enable the prevention and reduction of corruption. Each 
business unit is also expected to evaluate the risk of corruption as part of its 
risk management process and put in place mitigation measures to reduce 
such risks. When considering the Group's value chain, it ensures transparency 
and fair practices that foster mutually beneficial relationships based on 
open communication that stresses the importance of business partners 
adhering to the ethical standards that underlie all business practices. Further, 
a comprehensive selection process of key suppliers are carried out by the 
Group Initiatives Division which involves evaluation committees including 
independent category managers and neutral parties. All suppliers that are 
selected are required to agree to adhere to the Group's Supplier Code of 
Conduct which covers its human rights and anti-corruption expectations 
and is required to submit their audited financial statements for the two most 
recent financial years upon registration. Further, if it is discovered that the 
supplier has violated the supplier code of conduct including Anti-Corruption 
breaches, it is considered as a reason for termination of contracts and 
cessation of dealings.
Community Relations and Welfare
The Group proactively contributes to the development of the communities 
in which it operates by aligning its focus areas to the Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) while carrying out initiatives on infrastructure, 
public services and local community engagement and also on an ongoing 
basis, it seeks to identify stakeholder and community needs. The Group's 
values, corporate culture and operations, as well as the vision, focus areas 
and interventions of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) function, 
are intrinsically intertwined and connected to social, economic and 
environment concerns.
John Keells Foundation ('Foundation'), a company duly incorporated under 
the law and also registered as a 'Voluntary Social Service Organisation' 
with the Ministry of Social Welfare, drives the Group's social responsibility 
initiatives from the centre, reaching out to underserved communities 
in various parts of Sri Lanka through multiple mediums to long-term 
strategic and sustainable projects, inspired by its vision 'Empowering 
the Nation for Tomorrow', within a framework of six focus areas. The 
Foundation collaborates strategically with businesses of the John Keells 
Group in planning and implementing its projects, while also continually 
seeking strategic, multi-sectoral partnerships with the State, Private and 
Development Sectors, as well as community-based organisations for 
purposes of optimising, and ensuring effective implementation, impact 
and sustainability of the undertakings.
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL REVIEW
Initiatives under each Focus Area are planned and reviewed in the context of 
national priorities and are aligned to the Sustainable Development Goals as 
well as the Principles of United Nations Global Compact to ensure a collective 
and targeted focus towards the three dimensions of sustainable development 
- economic growth, social inclusion and environmental protection.
In addition to partnering Group businesses, John Keells Foundation 
actively collaborates with Government agencies (central, provincial 
and local), NGOs, academia and other stakeholders in the cause of 
empowering the various target groups under its projects.
	y
Our Businesses: actively contribute through funding, facilitating 
ground support, conducting, monitoring and follow-up visits of 
CSR projects and implementing activities, enhancing the reach 
and effectiveness of initiatives while building strategic community 
linkages.
	y
Government: engagements with the aim of identifying and 
targeting national priorities, working collaboratively to enhance 
systems, efficiencies (cost, time and implementation) and 
sustainability.
	y
NGOs and Private Entities: partnerships to leverage on ground 
networks and expertise providing technical and/or co-funding 
resources, enhancing the operationalisation and impact of 
projects, and fostering collaborative efforts in collectively striving 
towards a unified goal while eliminating potential duplication of 
work and resources.
CSR Vision: Empowering the Nation for Tomorrow
100 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
  Education
JKH is committed to provide 
better access to educational 
opportunities for those in 
need towards enhancing 
their employability and 
entrepreneurship.
 Livelihood Development
JKH fosters sustainable 
livelihoods through relevant 
skills, capacity and infrastructure 
enhancement towards building 
empowered and sustainable 
communities.
  Arts and Culture
JKH is committed to nurture 
the livelihoods of artists and 
preserve our cultural heritage 
towards safeguarding and 
promoting Sri Lankan arts and 
culture
  Health
JKH is committed to foster 
healthy communities towards 
enhancing well-being and 
productivity of 
Sri Lanka and Sri Lankans
  Environment
JKH is committed to minimise 
the impact of our operations 
and promote conservation and 
sustainability towards enhancing 
environmental and natural 
capital
 Disaster Relief
JKH is committed to come 
to the aid of Sri Lankans and 
global communities in times of 
adversity and disaster towards 
enabling them to rebuild their 
lives and livelihoods
JKF Current Focus Areas

The Group has access to a large volunteer network among its employees 
who, facilitated by the Group's flexible volunteer leave policies and 
volunteer recognition schemes, are encouraged to contribute through 
varied opportunities and roles towards the Group's CSR initiatives.
The Group's social performance is tracked through GRI disclosures 
focusing on areas such as the development and impact of infrastructure 
investments.
The Foundation's community engagement projects are structured based 
on an initial and ongoing needs assessment which includes formal and 
informal engagement with all significant stakeholders, specific selection 
criteria for identifying beneficiaries, and a periodic evaluation process. Each 
key activity under the project is evaluated to analyse the impact thereof 
and, where applicable, action plans to mitigate risks and address issues 
will be formulated by the project team, including at the Foundation's 
Management Committee meetings. In critical projects, this evaluation 
process has been carried out by independent third parties such as 
technical partners, project managers and/or auditors.
 Supply Chain Management
Supply chain management is a materially impactful topic to the Group 
and the Group recognises the importance of integrating sustainability 
across its value chain in its engagement with a vast number of business 
partners across its various industry groups. Periodic due diligence is 
carried out with its significant suppliers to assess their working conditions, 
respect and dignity towards employees, and the environmental impact 
of their operations as it minimises risks such as product quality issues, 
price volatility, disruption to operations and negative impacts on its brand 
reputation.
The Group suppliers are expected at a minimum, to operate in full 
compliance with the laws, rules, and regulations which are in force in 
the countries in which they operate. This is enforced through the Group 
supplier code of conduct and applies to all Group significant suppliers and 
business partners conducting business with the Group and is included in 
the legal contract signed with such parties. .
Most suppliers of the Group are in the main geographical areas in which 
the Group operates, namely in Sri Lanka and the Maldives. Maldivian 
suppliers consist of goods and services providers for the Group owned 
resorts in the Maldives. The types of suppliers include public limited 
companies, private limited companies and individuals who supply 
goods independently to the Group. Given the diversified nature of its 
industry groups, some of the significant suppliers are providing Group's 
primary activities, products, and services, including food and beverage, 
hotel suppliers, capital equipment, packaging and communication and 
IT services as well as other support services such as advertising and 
insurance.
Procurement drive of the Group is structured to cover items required 
commonly by all business units of the Group and those high in value 
through the Group sourcing initiative. Procurement of items that are 
specific to sectors or industry groups is obtained through the respective 
central purchasing offices, and individual business unit requirements 
through dedicated purchasing departments of companies. While the 
Group Initiatives division only engages in the sourcing of products and 
services, the central purchasing offices and purchasing departments of 
business units, are responsible for the purchasing of such items in addition 
to the sourcing of Industry Group or business unit-specific goods and 
services.
Sourcing for the Group is carried out by the Group Initiatives division 
through its supplier management platform and has established rigorous 
processes and mechanisms to ensure that supplier selection occurs 
in a transparent and fair manner. This is operationalised through an 
independent cross functional team assigned to each procurement 
category, a robust tendering process with necessary financial, operational, 
and legal terms and conditions to cover both the companies and supplier 
interests, documented evaluation process and a periodic supplier review 
and engagement process to understand and address supplier concerns, 
facilitated by its online sourcing platform.
As the product quality is of paramount importance, the Group only 
contracts with suppliers who have maintained the highest levels of quality 
of products and services, whilst ensuring and providing superior service 
levels. In addition to the stringent quality assurance processes carried 
across the Group, it has also begun to entrench its sustainability strategy 
down its value chain, through the introduction of a comprehensive 
supplier management framework.
Supplier Management Framework
	y
Supplier Code of Conduct
	y
Awareness creation and engagement
	y
Internal reviews and identification of risks in value chain
	y
Carrying out external third-party assessments on a sample basis
The Group plans its supply chain function by identifying significant 
suppliers by type, the industry in which they operate and potential 
environmental and social impacts. These suppliers were categorised and 
selected on the basis of the ability to influence the Group's operations, as 
well as the Group being able to influence the operations of the supplier. 
Significant suppliers were identified based on specific criteria including 
supplier dependency, potential environmental, labour and human rights 
risks and industry market structures.
Annual Supplier fora are carried for Group-sourced suppliers for Sri 
Lankan operations and significant suppliers in the Maldives. Suppliers are 
briefed on the supplier management framework regarding sustainability, 
the Supplier Code of Conduct, the Group's sustainability practices 
and initiatives, and encouraged to embark on their own journey of 
sustainability.
The Group also evaluates its identified significant suppliers on an annual 
basis, with these suppliers being appraised for labour practices, human 
rights and environmental impacts, using an established Group-wide 
supplier assessment process, developed based on all relevant laws and 
regulations.
 Customer Relations and Product Responsibility  
Delivering optimal levels of quality to all of its significant stakeholders 
has always been imperative and material for the John Keells Group. 
While meeting such optimum quality standards and ensuring maximum 
satisfaction with respect to its key stakeholders, the Group also focuses 
heavily on ensuring compliance with ethical business policies, with regards 
to responsible labelling, marketing communication and customer health 
& safety.
The Group attempts to maintain products and services at the highest 
standards while adhering to all relevant statutory and regulatory 
requirements, in the markets it serves, both locally and internationally. 
101
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information

No Group products or services are banned in the markets in which the 
applicable Group business operates. Stringent quality management 
processes are in place to ensure the highest quality in processes, 
responsible marketing and communications and stringent health and 
safety guidelines are also in place for both employees and customers. The 
Group's affiliation with the certification of ISO 9001, ISO 14001, ISO 22001 
and ISO 45001 demonstrates its commitment in this regard.
 The management approach adopted by the Group is to develop and 
market products and services that meet customer requirements and meet 
the highest product quality standards, which ensures customer health and 
safety through assessing the product life cycle. In addition, compliance with 
the relevant product and service labelling requirements, ethical marketing 
communications and maintenance of customer privacy is addressed 
through its product stewardship practices. Stakeholder engagements 
have reinforced these material areas by highlighting the requirement of 
consumers for products and services that satisfy their needs, superior 
product quality, product information to be provided in a standard format 
by all industry players, clear product specific information, and the need for 
marketing communications that are contemporary in nature.
The Group identifies and adopts international and local standards on a 
voluntary basis to achieve recognised external quality certification and, 
where relevant, benchmarking quality processes and meet standards 
against national and/or international best practice.
All consumers expect a safe product or service, and the Group 
continuously reviews its products and services for safe use by consumers, 
through the assessment of its systems and procedures during the entire 
manufacturing and service delivery process.
In addition, Group companies closely monitor any incidences of product 
related fines or sanctions, setting a zero figure as their target whilst 
all companies are required to maintain lists of fines payable. Further, 
the Group recognises the importance of informing and engaging our 
customers with regard to important product specific information as 
identified by stakeholder engagements, and continues to adhere to 
product labelling requirements specified in the Food Act No. 26 of 1980, 
the regulations contained in the Food Regulations 2005, 2014, 2016, 
2019, the Consumer Affairs Authority Act No. 9 of 2003 and directions 
thereunder Environmental (Plastic Material Identification Standards) 
Regulations No.01 of 2021 for all its products and services. 
A special Group committee monitors and evaluates advertising campaigns 
for socially insensitive/unethical/irresponsible advertising against the 
guidelines and procedures laid down. All related information with 
regards to the Group's products and services, labelling and marketing 
communication, in keeping with customer needs, customer health & safety 
and global and regional trends, can be found in the Consumer Foods and 
Retail industry group write up, as per relevant.
As customer driven businesses, companies in the Consumer Foods, Retail 
and Leisure industry groups maintain dedicated channels to address any 
customer related grievances. Social media has increasingly become a 
significant means of communication and dedicated channels have been 
extended for the management of grievances on these platforms.
Engagement with policymakers
The Group has always primarily engaged with the policymakers and the 
country's leadership through the respective committees of the Chamber 
and various forums and will continue to do so, ensuring that engagement 
is managed in the overall interests of the economy and the business 
environment as opposed to the interests of a single company.
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL REVIEW
Key Policies
The John Keells Group will strive to maintain products and services 
at the highest standards through embracing industry and corporate 
best practice and compliance with all relevant local and international 
statutory and regulatory requirements in the markets we serve. The 
Group strives to identify and assess environmental and social impact 
through communications, service, operations and supply chain of its 
products and services.
The John Keells Group believes in wider societal needs than our 
own and meaningfully enriching the lives of communities of which 
we are an integral part. We abide by the values of 'Caring, Trust and 
Integrity' by ensuring that through our actions we demonstrate our 
commitment to and respect for all our stakeholders, including the 
communities and the environment in which our businesses operate.
Products and Services Policy
Policy on Social Responsibility
Compliance with applicable labour and other laws, rules, and 
regulations which are in force in Sri Lanka and the country in which 
they operate in the case of suppliers from outside Sri Lanka.
	y
Compliance with applicable human rights laws and regulations 
which are in force in Sri Lanka and the country in which they 
operate in the case of suppliers from outside Sri Lanka. 
	y
Conduct operations in an ethical manner.
	y
Compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations 
which are in force Sri Lanka and the country in which they operate 
in the case of suppliers from outside Sri Lanka and support a 
precautionary approach to environmental matters.
The John Keells Group recognises and promotes respect for 
fundamental human rights as a vital component of long-term 
sustainability and responsible corporate citizenship. It is committed 
to ensuring its workforce, value chain and communities affected 
by its operations are treated with dignity and respect and that its 
businesses are conducted in a manner which upholds and protects 
human rights.
It is the Group's policy that all forms of fraud, misconduct and 
irregularity are very serious and violates its Values and has a negative 
impact on it, reputational and or monetary.
Supplier Code of Conduct
Human Rights Policy
Anti-Fraud Policy
102 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24

INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL REVIEW
The Group's Intellectual Capital stands as a distinct competitive advantage and aids in 
navigating the business through a continuously evolving and challenging corporate 
landscape. It also enables the Group to achieve sustainable value creation, by enhancing 
the Group's earning potential, productivity, innovation, and long-term sustainability. 
Focus Areas: 
The Group has identified the following focus areas as material in developing the 
Intellectual Capital base of the Group.
   DIGITISATION, DISRUPTION AND 
OPEN INNOVATION
The Group places emphasis on developing a 
foundation to enable the digital transformation drive, 
centred around the theme 'Disruption and Innovation', 
to exploit opportunities that arise from disruptive 
technology and research and development. The 
Group's digital transformation drive adopts a holistic 
approach, entailing investments in infrastructure, 
instilling a culture of change acceptance and training 
of staff, among others. The Group understands 
that disruptive technology is not just a catalyst for 
growth and opportunity, but also a crucial factor in 
gaining competitive advantage. While enabling the 
digital transformation drive, the Group is mindful of 
navigating the inherent uncertainty and challenges 
posed by disruptive technologies, by ensuring 
proactive measures are in place when adopting new 
technologies. The Group's digitisation drive involves:
	y
Digitisation and innovation initiatives at each 
industry group and business unit level, which are 
industry specific. 
•	 Presentation of the digitisation strategy at 
minimum, annually to the Group Executive 
Committee. 
•	 Various recognition channels, such as the annual 
Chairperson's Award for digitisation, to instil a 
culture of innovation and to encourage business 
units to pursue its digitisation strategy. 
Refer the Industry Group Reviews for more details 
on product and process innovations. 
 
	y
OCTAVE, the Data and Advanced Analytics Centre 
of Excellence of the Group, which functions as an 
independent advanced analytics practice.
•	 Development and deployment of bespoke end-
to-end advanced analytics solutions are aimed 
at addressing specific key business challenges 
towards unlocking measured financial impact while 
galvanising the adoption of greater data-driven 
decision-making in the operations of the business. 
•	 The assessment of actual benefit stemming 
from the roll-out of use cases and the internal 
governance mechanisms of each of the use cases 
are overseen by a Financial Impact Tracking (FIT) 
committee headed by the Deputy Chairperson/
Group Finance Director. The FIT committee 
continuously monitors and tracks the progress of 
the actual versus plan financial and operational 
metrics of the businesses, and independently 
Key Highlights of the Year:
	y
OCTAVE transitioned into an 
independent advanced analytics 
practice. Many of the use cases 
that were developed, and pending 
pilot and roll-out were executed 
successfully.
	y
JKR entered into a technology 
sharing agreement for GermslayTM, 
a silver nanoparticle antibacterial 
technology, to be used in the 
production of electronic products. 
	y
A patent application for SilmeticTM, 
a nano silver synthesised as a stable 
suspension with antibacterial 
properties which can be incorporated 
into skin care products, was filed in 
Singapore. This is currently being 
used in cosmetic production by a 
manufacturing partner in Sri Lanka. 
	y
Patent rights for the novel energy 
storage material, which was 
developed in 2016/17, was granted in 
the jurisdictions of India and United 
States of America (USA). 
	y
The accelerator programme of 'JKX 
4.0' was launched with three winning 
start-ups receiving the initial funding 
tranche. 'Innovate 2.0' was launched 
with a broader focus.
SDG's Impacted through 
Initiatives:
Affordable and Clean Energy
Develop innovative and efficient solutions 
surrounding modern energy services.
Decent Work and Economic 
Growth
Continue to collaborate with and support 
the start-up eco-system of Sri Lanka by 
creating a unique platform for disruptive 
and innovative technology-based 
solutions.
Facilitate a digital transformation drive, 
through advanced analytics solutions with 
the aim of enabling data-driven decision-
making in businesses.
Industry, Innovation and 
Infrastructure
Continue to grow the Intellectual Capital 
base by innovating, relying on new 
technology and leveraging on the skills 
and knowledge of employees.
Partnerships for the Goals
Explore opportunities both locally and 
globally to commercialise existing 
technology and continue to develop 
potential solutions to dynamic business 
needs which could lead to contemporary 
business models.
  Digitisation, Disruption, and Open Innovation 
Page 103
  Brand Stewardship 
Page 105
  Tactic Knowledge, Systems and Standards 
Page 105
Focus Areas
Focus areas and priority SDGs under Intellectual Capital
  Research and Development 
Page 104
103
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information

104 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
approves the use case for roll-out based on pilot results. Progress thus 
far affirms that the evidence of material value measured during the 
pilot study of these use cases can be sustained at scale upon roll-out.
•	 OCTAVE Advanced Analytics Academy offers in-class room training, 
online courses and curated on-the-job learning for each cohort of 
roles linked to the advanced analytics transformation programme. 
Presently counts over 390 participants that have completed 
training across seven batches since inception.
	y
John Keells X, the Group's start-up accelerator and open innovation 
programme, which offers a unique platform to Sri Lankan start-ups, 
harnessing disruptive and innovative technologies. 
•	 Enables start-ups to develop and commercialise their businesses 
and solutions, especially in the industries the Group operates. 
•	 Provides support in the form of seed funding, mentoring, training, 
access to Group networks and support services, and other resources.
John Keells X
	y
Following the pre-accelerator programme of 'JKX 4.0' during 2022/23, 
under which six start-ups were provided with seed funding, in 
September 2023 the accelerator programme was launched where three 
of the winning start-ups were provided with their initial funding tranche. 
	y
Furthering innovation, 'Innovate 2.0' was launched in January 2024 
with a broader focus, enabling start-ups to delve deep into the Group's 
operations. This programme seeks to identify the latest innovations 
and talented young entrepreneurs who can contribute to the Group's 
culture on innovation. 
	y
Expanding its reach, JKX collaborated with Island Climate Initiative and 
'Plasticcycle' on two green-focused start-up programmes in 2023/24. 
	y
Select start-ups under JKX's purview made headway on follow-on 
investment opportunities during the year. 
   RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
Research and Development (R&D) drives continual growth and fosters 
innovation, while Intellectual Property (IP) safeguards innovations and 
ensures competitive advantage. Both these aspects are pivotal for 
sustaining market relevance and fostering long-term success. The Group 
fosters a culture of research and development through:
	y
R&D teams, as applicable, at business units which continually attempt 
to discover innovative and efficient products and solutions for the 
business.
•	 For example, the R&D capabilities of the Beverages and Frozen 
Confectionery businesses have played an integral role in 
the delivery of its customer promise of choice, through the 
development of a diverse product portfolio that has evolved to 
reflect shifts in customer preferences.
•	 In-house legal and financial expertise to aid businesses to file for 
IP rights.
	y
John Keells Research (JKR), the research and development arm of the 
Group, which engages in discovering new, innovative and efficient 
solutions for dynamic business needs, as well as potential solutions 
which could lead to novel products and processes and enhance the 
Intellectual Capital base of the Group.  
Advanced Analytics Transformation Journey –  
Key developments during the year
	y
OCTAVE transitioned into an independent advanced analytics 
practice as originally designed when the Group's analytics 
transformation programme was initiated in 2019. 
	y
The relative stability in the operating environment during 
2023/24, in comparison to prior years, enabled the successful 
deployment of a higher number of use cases at scale across the 
Supermarket and Consumer Foods businesses as well as the 
piloting of several new use cases. 
	y
A revised detailed roadmap of advanced analytics use cases 
was developed for the Leisure and Financial Services industry 
groups, while preliminary engagement with the Transportation 
industry group was also initiated.
	y
A programme aimed at developing a holistic understanding 
of customers within the Group and how they interact with 
the different consumer brands across the Group portfolio, was 
further institutionalised.
	y
Use cases rolled-out in the Supermarket business continued to 
make positive contributions across core aspects of the business 
value chain. 
•	 Includes augmenting the efficacy of pricing and promotions, 
marketing, store operations, and supply chain interventions. 
•	 Aids in driving healthy and sustainable margins while 
ensuring customers receive sound value for their money. 
•	 Among other benefits, optimises inventory holdings, 
improves availability of stock keeping units (SKUs) at outlets, 
personalises marketing communications, enhances the 
efficiency of outlet replenishment and rostering in outlet 
operations, and optimises the product mix at outlets.
	y
Use cases developed and piloted for the Beverages business 
have been successfully deployed in optimising promotional 
spend across modern trade and general trade channels as well 
as in augmenting production planning. The use cases aimed at 
augmenting the efficiency of the distribution network of the 
Beverages and Frozen Confectionery businesses are in advanced 
stages of deployment. 
John Keells Research - Key developments
	y
Entered into a technology license agreement for JKR's 
proprietary GermslayTM technology, which is a composite 
material, infused with a nanotechnology-based antibacterial 
additive which can be incorporated into electronic products 
by the manufacturing partner. The material has been subjected 
to rigorous validation by independent accredited laboratories, 
establishing an impressive antibacterial efficacy of 99.9%. 
	y
A patent application for JKR's proprietary SilmeticTM technology 
was filed in Singapore. The technology is known for providing 
high antibacterial effect and can be incorporated into different 
applications. At present, SilmeticTM technology is used in a 
range of antibacterial skin care products by a cosmetic product 
manufacturing partner based in Sri Lanka. 
	y
The patent rights for JKR's novel energy storage material, which 
was developed in 2016/17, was granted in the jurisdictions 
of India and USA. This patented material was developed in 
collaboration with the National Metallurgical Lab of the Council 
for Scientific and Industrial Research India, (CSIR-NML) and JKR. 
INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL REVIEW

105
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
   BRAND STEWARDSHIP
Given evolving business trends and customer preferences, the Group's 
brand strategy aims at remaining relevant, whilst resonating the core values 
of the Group. The Group is home to a significant number of brands which 
have gained recognition in their respective spheres over many years. The 
brands connected to each of the industry groups are depicted below.
  Transportation
Transportation
Ports and Shipping
  Consumer Foods
Beverages
Frozen Confectionery
Convenience Foods
  Retail
Supermarkets
Office Automation
New Energy Vehicles
  Leisure
Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts
Destination Management
Hotel Management
  Property
Property Development
Property Management
  Financial Services
Insurance
Banking
Stockbroking
  Other, 
including Information 
Technology and 
Plantation Services
Information Technology
Plantation Services
Other *
* Also comprises of Centre Functions
   TACTIC KNOWLEDGE, SYSTEMS AND STANDARDS
Tactic Knowledge
	y
The Group's longstanding presence spanning over 150 years, has 
honed its competitive advantage through industry insights and 
specialised knowledge. 
	y
The Group continues to shape and transform Sri Lanka and Sri Lankan 
lives through unmatched products and services and legendary 
local brands benchmarked to international standards, including 
'Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts', 'Elephant House', 'Keells' and 'Union 
Assurance' among a host of others. Landmark infrastructure projects 
which have shaped Sri Lanka's regional positioning in the past such 
as the South Asia Gateway Terminals at the Port of Colombo - the 
first private port terminal in Sri Lanka, and investments which build 
for the future such as the 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka' and the West 
Container Terminal, exemplify the Group's commitment to growth. 
	y
This wealth of experience has immensely contributed to cultivating a 
distinctive Intellectual Capital base, bolstering adaptability to market 
dynamics and resilience in turbulent times. The Group's operations 
have further enriched this, fostering cross-industry expertise and 
enabling successful initiatives to be replicated across the Group.
Key accolades received by John Keells Holdings PLC during the year 
under review:
	y
Ranked first as the 'Most Respected Entity' in Sri Lanka for the 18th 
year at the 19th annual edition of LMD's Most Respected Entities 
rankings. The rankings are based on the survey commissioned and 
conceptualised by LMD and conducted by NielsenIQ.
	y
JKH was placed first for the fourth consecutive year in 
the Transparency in Corporate Reporting Assessment by 
Transparency International Sri Lanka, obtaining a 100% score for 
transparency in disclosure practices.
	y
Gold award for Best Investor Relations at the Capital Market 
Awards 2023 organised by the CFA Society Sri Lanka.
	y
The 'Organisation Promoting Equity/Equality and Diversity of 
the Year' at the 'Top 50 Professional and Career Women Global 
Awards – Thirteenth Edition' in 2023, by Women in Management 
(WIM) in partnership with the International Finance Corporation 
(IFC) and the Government of Australia.
	y
Ranked first in LMD Readers' Choice as Sri Lanka's Most Loved 
Corporate Brand for 2024.
For the industry group specific awards, refer Industry Group Review – 
page 135.
AWARDS AND ACCOLADES

106 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
Systems and Processes
Effective information technology (IT) governance is crucial for nurturing 
the Group's Intellectual Capital base. By providing secure platforms for 
information exchange and decision-making, IT governance facilitates 
knowledge management, innovation, and collaboration. It promotes 
transparency, accountability, and compliance with regulatory standards, 
enhancing the Group's reputation. Through efficient resource utilisation 
and a culture of continuous improvement, IT governance enables the 
Group to maximise value creation, driving innovation, competitiveness, 
and growth.
Key Initiatives during the Year
	y
Implementation of an 'Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR)' and 
the Group-wide roll-out of the 'SMART Office' mobile application in 
order to improve the Group's cybersecurity and digitisation efforts. 
The 'SMART Office' application empowers the workforce with 
advanced tools, improving mobility and streamlining processes.
	y
Adoption of 'Microsoft Defender' through a rigorous selection 
process, providing elevated security across operations.  
Refer IT Governance
Standards and Certifications
The Group's pursuit of operational excellence is demonstrated through 
its compliance with a range of standards and certifications, which 
are globally recognised. Responding to the needs of the plethora of 
stakeholders of the Group has spurred businesses to achieve stringent 
quality certifications, thereby complementing as well as strengthening 
internal systems and processes.
INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL REVIEW
	y Regulatory environment, including protectionism
	y Global competition
	y Reputation and brand image
	y Information technology risks
•	 Digital oversight and cyber threats
•	 Speed of technological change
•	 Data protection, information management and adoption
Refer Group Outlook and Risks
Key business risks associated with Intellectual Capital

107
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
OUTLOOK AND RISKS
The section that ensues entails a discussion of the Group's approach 
to navigating through the socio-economic and socio-political 
landscape, as well as the way forward for the Group. 
The discussion comprises of three parts:
•	
Macroeconomic Outlook from both a global and local perspective and the implications on the Group.
•	
Group Outlook which discusses the key focus areas of the Group going forward.
•	
Key Risks to the Group's outlook based on the risks identified as part of the Group's Enterprise Risk Management 
framework and its approach to managing such risks optimally.
MACROECONOMIC OUTLOOK
Global Context
The International Monetary Fund (IMF) projects global growth to continue at the same pace as 
CY2023, expanding by 3.2% in both CY2024 and CY2025. 
	y
The stagnation in growth is projected on the back of tightening monetary policy stances 
adopted in most major economies to contain inflationary pressures, lagged effects of the 
recent deterioration in financial conditions, and a withdrawal of fiscal support amid high debt 
weighing on economic activity. Ongoing geopolitical conflicts and growing geo-economic 
fragmentation have further added to the volatility and uncertainty resulting in relatively lower 
growth expectations. 
	y
Downside risks to this outlook include potential aggravation of the Russia-Ukraine and 
Israel-Palestine crises, inflationary pressures stemming from geo-political tensions and more 
persistent core inflation compelling Central Banks worldwide to adopt a further policy 
tightening response. 
	y
Upside risks to the outlook include higher fiscal policy interventions than currently anticipated 
in the near-term, a faster than planned decline in inflation and improved productivity through 
structural reforms and technological advances.  
IMF Growth Projections
IMF Growth Projections
Global
Economy
Global
Economy
Advanced
Economies
Advanced
Economies
Emerging Markets and
Developing Economies
Emerging Markets and
Developing Economies
Emerging and
Developing Asia
Emerging and
Developing Asia
(%)
(%)
3.2
3.5
2.6
4.1
4.4
1.6
3.2
1.7
3.2
1.8
4.3
5.6
5.2
4.9
4.2
4.2
0
2
4
6
8
10
CY23
CY22
CY24 CY25
CY23
CY22
CY24 CY25
CY23
CY22
CY24 CY25
CY23
CY22
CY24 CY25
Source: World Economic Outlook April 2024, International Monetary Fund.
	y
Global headline inflation, as per IMF, is forecasted to slow down to 5.9% in CY2024 and 4.5% in 
CY2025 [CY2023: 6.8%], with advanced economies returning to their inflation targets sooner 
than emerging market and developing economies. With economies trending towards target 
inflation rates, the IMF predicts that Central Banks worldwide are likely to gradually reduce 
interest rates to pre-pandemic levels.
Sri Lankan Context
The Government and the Central Bank of 
Sri Lanka (CBSL) have enacted a multitude 
of much required reforms and initiatives to 
stabilise the macroeconomy and the overall 
operating landscape, which has yielded 
positive outcomes, thus far, in stabilising 
the economy. These initiatives include 
effectively managing demand pressures, 
bringing inflation down to single-digits, 
enhancing Government revenue, building 
of foreign exchange reserves and exchange 
rate management and easing the pressure 
on the external sector. Such policy measures 
coupled with the IMF Extended Fund Facility 
(EFF) arrangement, which is aimed at restoring 
macroeconomic stability, debt sustainability, 
safeguarding financial system stability and 
strengthening governance, are envisaged to 
provide a strong foundation for the economy's 
sustained recovery and growth. Against this 
backdrop, CBSL projects the economy to 
continue to recover in CY2024, recording a 
growth of 3.0%, as opposed to the contraction 
of 2.3% in CY2023.
Growth Projections for Sri Lanka
Growth Projections for Sri Lanka
(%)
(%)
3.0
2.5
(2.0)
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
Asian Development
Bank
1.9
CY25
CY24
Central Bank of
Sri Lanka
The early indications of economic recovery 
observed in the latter half of CY2023 are 
anticipated to lead to a broad-based recovery 
across all sectors in the ensuing year as 
momentum has gathered in the fourth quarter 
of 2023/24 and in the month of April 2024. 

108 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
OUTLOOK AND RISKS
	y
Growth is envisaged to be driven by the dovish monetary policy stance of CBSL resulting in 
declining cost of credit and the low inflationary environment easing input costs. The recent 
relaxation of import restrictions is also envisaged to aid demand. 
	y
The continued recovery of the tourism sector is also expected to spearhead growth in the near 
future, with positive spillover effects to other sectors of the economy, as already witnessed in 
the preceding few months. 
	y
In addition to the downside risks globally, any uncertainty that may arise as a result of the 
presidential election and the parliamentary election, due to be held in CY2024 and CY2025, 
respectively, may slowdown the envisaged recovery.
CBSL projects inflation to hover around the target of 5%, on average, in CY2024, despite occasional 
fluctuations caused by supply-side shocks and reduced demand conditions. 
	y
Inflation recorded a temporary uptick in early CY2024, primarily on account of the increase in 
value added tax (VAT) rates implemented in January 2024. CBSL estimates the direct impact 
of the VAT alteration on inflation, as well as its secondary effects, is not as significant as initially 
anticipated due to relatively subdued demand. The effects of this tax hike were also partially 
offset by the considerable downward revisions to electricity tariffs in March 2024 along with 
a moderation in food prices, while the appreciation of the exchange rate has also resulted in 
lower selling prices in some categories. 
	y
Inflationary pressures stemming from the global economy, particularly commodity prices, 
arising from supply chain disruptions and geopolitical tensions are risks to price stability, and, 
resultantly, the growth outlook. Weather conditions also have an indirect impact on inflation 
given the country's reliance on hydro-generated power and agricultural output which has a 
direct correlation with food prices.
	y
Inflation is expected to remain stable over the medium-term through appropriate policy 
measures and the CBSL's inflation targeting policy. In order to achieve this, ensuring the 
independence of the CBSL and enhancing public accountability in monetary policymaking will 
play a pivotal role in sustaining domestic price stability in the medium to long-term.
Although the trade deficit could widen due to increased economic activity and revived imports, 
the external sector is expected to benefit from the revival of tourism, higher levels of workers' 
remittances, and anticipated non-debt creating inflows, as witnessed in recent quarters, thereby 
bolstering external buffers.
On the fiscal front, the Government is anticipated to persist with fiscal consolidation efforts 
while continuing necessary reforms to steer the economy towards sustainability. The sustained 
continuation of the Government's ongoing reforms and economic adjustments supported by 
the IMF-EFF programme will be crucial for continuing with the recovery and pivotal for overall 
macroeconomic stability and confidence.
	y
In pursuit of the Government's goal of achieving a tax revenue target surpassing 15% of GDP 
by CY2027, the Government has already implemented some of the much-required measures to 
enhance sustained revenue generation, including upwards revisions to direct and indirect tax 
rates, broadening the tax bases, among other actions. With a majority of such measures already 
been implemented, the economic performance is likely to have already absorbed the effect of 
such measures. While enhancing tax revenue is a priority, the authorities should also focus on 
economic revival and growth, to accelerate business confidence which is gradually recovering 
from its lows. Maintaining a consistent tax policy framework and building confidence will also 
be key to restoring economic activity and investment, thereby enabling improved revenue 
collection. It is noted that the stability and confidence in achieving fiscal consolidation will also 
lead to a more sustained recovery.
	y
Various reforms aimed at addressing longstanding issues of state owned enterprises (SOEs) 
and other corruption and transparency vulnerabilities are also envisaged to aid progress. While 
focus may shift towards elections, it is important that whichever successive Government, post 
elections, places emphasis on addressing corruption and accelerating the reforms to SOEs 
to ensure a lower strain on public finances, while also bringing in a culture of competition, 
productivity and accountability. The release of information on procurement contracts, public 
disclosure of specific tax exemption 
details, and the formalisation of the 
Commission to Investigate Allegations 
of Bribery or Corruption (CIABOC) 
represent commendable steps in 
addressing corruption. These measures 
are likely to improve transparency, bolster 
accountability, and tackle bribery issues 
going forward.
Despite long-term challenges stemming 
from climate change, population aging, and 
geopolitical tensions, the medium to long-
term outlook for the Sri Lankan economy 
hinges on the successful continuation of the 
IMF-EFF programme, completion of debt 
restructuring, and seamless execution of 
productivity and efficiency-enhancing reforms 
with broad political and social consensus. 
With the appropriate policy response, the 
economy is envisaged to gather growth 
momentum in the medium-term. The Group 
remains confident of the underlying prospects 
for the economy with growth expected to be 
driven by higher exports, expansion of the 
services sector and the potential for higher 
foreign inflows. The continued revival of the 
tourism sector will also be a key catalyst of 
economic growth, particularly in the context 
of the positive impact it will have on foreign 
exchange earnings. Tourism is a low-hanging 
fruit with immense potential, and an area 
where Sri Lanka can capitalise on within a 
short period of time, particularly given the 
proximity to a significant tourism source 
market such as India. The geographical 
location of Sri Lanka will lend itself to 
further capitalising on the opportunity of a 
transportation and logistics hub for the region, 
particularly given the growth trajectory of 
the Indian economy. While expansion of the 
port operations is one area that will benefit 
the country, considering the new capacity 
due to come onstream, there are many other 
avenues from a logistics perspective which 
can be expanded on, given the location of the 
country.
“The Group remains 
confident of the underlying 
prospects for the economy 
with growth expected to be 
driven by higher exports, 
expansion of the services 
sectors and the potential for 
higher foreign inflows.”

109
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
GROUP OUTLOOK
Key risks, trends and opportunities relevant to the Group:
	y
Emphasis on environmental, social and governance (ESG) 
aspects across business operations
	y
Increasing demand for digital infrastructure and integration of 
artificial intelligence (AI) into business processes
	y
Increasing urbanisation and connectivity
	y
Expansion of Sri Lanka as a transportation and logistics hub
	y
Development of Colombo as a financial hub
	y
Tourist arrivals poised for exponential growth
	y
Demand for personalised product offerings
	y
Shift in consumer behaviour towards more energy efficient and 
sustainable alternatives
Identified as a risk across the Group through the Group's Enterprise Risk Management 
framework. Refer Key Risks section of this Review for a detailed discussion.
Macroeconomic and political environment 
Regulatory environment  
Supply chain disruptions 
Financial exposure, in particular exchange rate and interest 
rate volatility  
Global competitiveness  
Human resources and talent management  
Environment and health & safety, in particular climate risks  
Information technology  
Reputation and brand image  
Risk Rating:
  Ultra-High   
  High   
  Medium   
  Low
Trends and Opportunities
Risks
For a discussion of the outlook for each of the industries the Group  
operates in, refer:
	y
Transportation – page 141
	y
Consumer Foods – page 152
	y
Retail – page 162
	y
Leisure – page 177
	y
Property – page 187
	y
Financial Services – page 194
	y
Other, including Information Technology and Plantation Services 
– page 202
Significant improvement in macroeconomic conditions in the country, 
including the implementation of certain much needed reforms and 
roll-out of various policy initiatives has created a solid foundation for 
the country to recover while also enabling a normalised operating 
environment. 
The Group expects the growth momentum witnessed in the recent 
quarters to continue with strong performance recorded in the short-to-
medium-term driven by increased consumer confidence and economic 
activity. 
Stabilising inflation levels, a complete turnaround of the country's 
foreign exchange (FX) liquidity position with freely available FX liquidity, 
and improved product availability, amongst others, are expected to 
augur well for business operations. Regardless, businesses will continue 
to take all necessary measures, including expense and portfolio 
optimisation strategies to ensure that costs are controlled. The Group 
will closely monitor electricity tariffs and make necessary investments, to 
the extent possible and not already implemented, to reduce the power 
and energy expense of the Group. The Group will continue to explore 
measures to reduce its carbon footprint. As already witnessed over the 
two preceding quarters, pressure on margins is envisaged to continue 
reducing gradually, although global inflation and commodity prices 
could be the only risk. Provided that the country continues the current 
recovery trajectory and further eases import restrictions, particularly on 
motor vehicles, the exchange rate is also expected to witness gradual 
and normalised depreciation once the external debt restructuring 
is finalised and the country re-commences certain debt servicing 
obligations. The consensus across many projections of the exchange rate 
are within a maximum depreciation threshold of 10% from current levels, 
which will support the external sector, while not materially impacting 
the other segments of the economy, considering the exchange rate has 
already witnessed appreciation.
This macroeconomic and funding position is envisaged to improve from 
this base; the Group will continue to assess the market, and consciously 
optimise the funding position in line with the Group's funding strategy, 
including converting USD cash holdings in the open market to hold 
Rupees as done in the past, if the need arises. Improvements in market 
sentiment coupled with improving liquidity is expected to aid in the 
stabilisation of the exchange rate and, importantly, enable the CBSL to 
further build its foreign currency reserves position. 
Indications suggest that the sluggish expansion in consumer demand 
observed in recent years is shifting, with volumes indicating a promising 
uptick. Against this backdrop, the Group is of the view that the impact of 
previous price increases stemming from the recent fiscal consolidation 
measures have now been fully absorbed. It is pertinent to note that the 
degree of impact of macroeconomic fundamentals on businesses will 
be divergent, depending on the elasticity of demand for products and 
services. For instance, the impact on businesses such as Supermarkets, 
where consumer baskets comprise of household necessities, personal 
care and other household items, is more insulated to variations in 
economic activity and consumer spend, in comparison to an industry 
group such as Consumer Foods which comprise of more discretionary, 
albeit low-value items.

110 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
Interest rates in Sri Lanka have declined 
materially, following the highs of 2022/23. 
This is expected to aid Group performance 
as a result of lower funding costs. The Group 
mitigated the risk of decreasing interest 
rates by investing its excess cash, where 
applicable, in medium-term investments 
subject to liquidity requirements. The portfolio 
of borrowings was constantly repriced to 
ensure that reductions in borrowing rates 
were factored in a timely manner. Relatively 
high-cost facilities were refinanced with lower 
cost facilities in order to reduce the overall 
cost of funds. The Group will continue to 
place emphasis on the yield curve and rate 
expectations when entering into new facilities, 
with the aim of optimising the funding costs 
of the Group. The reduction in interest rates 
and low loan growth in the banking industry 
has created ample liquidity in the market 
which will help the Group optimise its funding 
cost and maturity profile of its borrowings.
As global inflation converges towards target 
levels, policymakers are likely to pivot towards 
policy easing, aiding interest rates to gradually 
ease, following the highs of the previous year. 
These conditions will have implications on 
the foreign currency cash portfolio held at the 
Holding Company, and the interest income 
therein. The Group's borrowings portfolio 
will be optimally managed, where the 
Group will look to leverage on the benefit of 
relatively lower rates, with the aim of locking 
in rates, where applicable, thereby mitigating 
the Group's exposure to unforeseen rate 
fluctuations going forward. 
Looking towards the medium to long-term, 
growth in consumption and trade in this 
region, including Sri Lanka, is expected to pick-
up supported by strong under-penetration 
in many industries the Group operates in, as 
well as the underlying fundamentals of such 
industries. 
The Group is committed to actively contributing 
and assuming a proactive stance in shaping 
and propelling the nation's economic revival, 
and is poised to leverage on ground-breaking 
transformative projects, namely the 'City of 
Dreams Sri Lanka' (formerly referred to as the 
'Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort') and the West 
Container Terminal in the Port of Colombo, 
which are slated to commence operations 
during the ensuing year. The intersection of an 
economic resurgence and the realisation of 
the Group's landmark transformative projects is 
envisaged to generate significant prospects for 
both the country and the Group.
OUTLOOK AND RISKS
'City of Dreams Sri Lanka'
'Cinnamon Life', managed by Cinnamon 
Hotel Management Limited
	y
687 guest rooms 
	y
6 restaurants, 5 bars and 3 pool bars
	y
exhibition hall 
	y
conference hall 
	y
4 wellness and fitness centres
	y
3 ballrooms
	y
7 meeting rooms
	y
2 lounges
	y
2 pools
'Nuwa' - ultra high-end luxury-standard 
hotel, managed by Melco Resorts & 
Entertainment
	y
113 guest rooms
	y
dedicated access to casino
	y
1 pool
Retail mail and entertainment space
	y
~500,000 Sq. Ft.
'The Offices at Cinnamon Life'
'The Suites at Cinnamon Life'
'The Residence at Cinnamon Life'
	y
'City of Dreams Sri Lanka' will encompass a luxurious 687-key hotel branded as 'Cinnamon 
Life', which will comprise of a range of ballrooms and banquet facilities including an 
exhibition centre, that, together, can accommodate meetings, incentives, conferences, and 
exhibitions (MICE) events of up to 5,000 seats. 
	y
'City of Dreams Sri Lanka' will also include a 113-key exclusive ultra high-end luxury-standard 
hotel and a 500,000 square foot shopping and entertainment facility, including the gaming 
operations.
	y
Commencement of operations:
•	 The 687-key 'Cinnamon Life' hotel and related facilities: third quarter of 2024/25.
•	 Gaming and retail mall operations: mid-2025.
	y
The Group is confident that the convergence of all elements in the launch of 'City of Dreams 
Sri Lanka' will unlock its full potential as a transformative development in South Asia and be a 
catalyst in creating tourism demand, foreign exchange earnings for Sri Lanka and generating 
employment while ensuring the synergies emanating from the various elements of the 
integrated resort, including the 'Cinnamon Life' hotel and its related facilities, will contribute 
towards ensuring the commercial aspects of the project are optimised.
	y
While the commencement of operations will lay the platform for transformative growth 
as all elements of the integrated resort converge and ramp up over the years ahead, the 
immediate ensuing financial year will see the non-cash impacts of the depreciation of the 
integrated resort being accounted for while the finance expense in relation to the USD 219 
million loan will be reflected in the income statement as opposed to being capitalised as 
project cost, in accordance with accounting standards. These impacts, however, will not have 
a bearing on the EBITDA of the project or Group.
Refer Leisure Industry Group for a detailed discussion on 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka' and the resultant 
opportunity for both the Group and the country. 

111
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Continual Advancements on Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Aspects
The Group is of the view that emphasis on ESG fosters a 360-degree analysis of performance 
and enables a sustainable business model which can derive and deliver value to all stakeholders. 
Various measures have been, and are, in place, to ensure a holistic view of performance including 
managing scarce natural resources, mitigating impact of the Group's businesses on the 
environment, enhancing the well-being of all stakeholders, and ensuring effective governance 
mechanisms.
The Group will stay abreast of developments in the ESG space and continue to integrate ESG 
elements with business strategy, operations and in reporting. The Group will also continue to 
leverage on expertise from its partners such as Asian Development Bank (ADB) and IFC to further 
enhance the Group's existing ESG processes and frameworks, together with aligning its practices 
with stakeholder and shareholder considerations and expectations, as relevant and applicable, to 
reach best-in-class benchmarks.
Focus on Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
The Group recognises the importance of diversity, equity and inclusion (DE&I) and the role it plays 
in ensuring workplace respect, organisational success and sustainability for all stakeholders. In this 
regard, the Group will continue to take steps aimed at providing a working environment where all 
employees, partners, suppliers and other stakeholders are included, their diversity is embraced and 
their contributions are valued. As a part of the Group's DE&I strategy, the Group will continue to 
focus on: 
	y
Building a diverse workforce for the future through attraction and retention policies aimed at 
diverse categories of employees.
	y
Ensuring Group practices enable equitable and meritocratic opportunities to employees for 
recruitment, development and progression.
	y
Integrating diversity into talent management strategy, including targeted strategies aimed at 
specific groups, setting internal goals and targets, and practices to improve flexibility in working 
arrangements and work-life balance.
	y
Providing a safe working environment where employees and all stakeholders are treated with 
fairness and respect, free from discriminatory, exclusionary and/or harassing behaviours.
	y
Empowering employees, business partners and suppliers to be themselves by creating a working 
environment where they feel that their gender, background, sexual orientation, lifestyle and 
disability, among others, do not affect perceptions of them as professionals or as individuals.
Group's ESG Journey
	y
In 2022/23, as a part of the Group's ongoing efforts towards increasing emphasis on 
environmental, social and governance (ESG) aspects, the Group embarked on re-
formulating its ESG framework in collaboration with an international third-party consulting 
firm, setting revised Group-wide ESG ambitions and translating such ambitions to ESG 
related targets. 
	y
As a part of this collaboration, the Group conducted an in-depth study and workshops 
within each industry group to identify areas of significant impact, risk and materiality 
thereby, arriving at material ESG topics through a formalised and more refined process. 
Similar to previous materiality assessments, benchmarking studies were conducted across 
the businesses to assess their ESG performance vis-à-vis industry leaders, regional peers 
and best-in-class practices of the respective industries the businesses operate in. Similarly, 
stakeholder engagement sessions were held with both internal and external stakeholders 
to gather insights. These efforts culminated in the determination of material ESG topics for 
each industry group and sector-specific ambitions, which thereafter dovetailed into Group 
level priorities, based on relevance and materiality.
	y
The insights gathered will form the backbone of the ongoing redevelopment of the 
holistic ESG strategy and roadmap for the Group, which is envisaged to be formalised in 
the ensuing year. 
	y
Building empathy and respect for 
stakeholders of all backgrounds and 
providing training and awareness 
building to tackle sources of conscious or 
unconscious bias.
	y
Supporting and developing of a diverse set 
of business and supply chain partners.
Continued Emphasis on Transparency 
and Governance 
The Group places significant emphasis on its 
corporate governance framework, with the 
aim of creating an enabling environment 
for sustainable growth. A well-grounded 
corporate governance framework is vital 
in reducing corruption and enhancing 
accountability to diverse stakeholders, and also 
aids in operating in challenging environments 
characterised by increased involvement from 
societies, dynamic corporate change, global 
volatility and shareholder activism. It is also 
pivotal in ensuring corporate fair-mindedness 
and creating sustainable value.
Ensuring transparency is a continually evolving 
journey given progressing regulations, 
advancements in global best practice and 
complex stakeholder needs. The Group will 
continue to stay abreast of internationally 
accepted best practice and continuously 
challenge the status quo in this journey of 
being transparent.
“The Group is of the view 
that emphasis on ESG fosters 
a 360-degree analysis of 
performance and enables a 
sustainable business model 
which can derive and deliver 
value to all stakeholders. 
Various measures have been, 
and are, in place, to ensure a 
holistic view of performance 
including managing 
scarce natural resources, 
mitigating impact of the 
Group's businesses on the 
environment, enhancing the 
well-being of all stakeholders, 
and ensuring effective 
governance mechanisms.”

112 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
Augmenting transactional and financial 
internal controls with operational aspects, in 
line with international best practice, remains 
a medium-term priority for the Group. 
Continuous strengthening of internal controls 
through a streamlined process that optimises 
and facilitates process audit information, life 
cycle management and related processes are 
expected to eliminate inefficiencies inherent 
in manual processes, provide a platform based 
on process enforcement, enable management 
follow-up based on centrally held data in a 
compliance repository, identify trends, action 
taken, effectiveness and opportunities for 
process improvement by analysing movement 
of the compliance posture and strengthen the 
Group's ability to prevent and detect fraud. 
The Group will also work towards enhancing 
the effectiveness of its financial processes and 
optimise the available tools to improve access 
to real-time data and dashboards while also 
using artificial intelligence (AI) to complement 
the type of insights required to enable 
proactive decision-making. In this regard, a 
more focused finance transformation initiative 
will complement the current practices and 
progressive improvements. 
Key initiatives under discussion for the near-
term:
	y
Implementation of codes aimed at further 
strengthening compliance with Group 
policies and deviation monitoring and 
resolution 
	y
Further improvement in public disclosure 
of governance framework and all 
applicable Group policies	
	y
Further improvement in sustainability 
frameworks, disclosures and assurance, in 
addition to obtaining independent ESG 
ratings, if relevant		
	y
Enhancing business continuity plans, 
risk mitigation, data protection and 
cybersecurity	
	
	
For a detailed discussion refer the Governance 
Outlook and Emerging Challenges section – 
page 248.
Emphasis on the Group's Advanced Analytics and Transformation Journey
OCTAVE, the Data and Advanced Analytics Centre of Excellence of the Group, is expected to 
continue to lay the platform for the Group's advanced analytics transformation journey. The 
ongoing assessment of the impact to business of these advanced analytics solutions, post roll-
out and complete business-wide adoption has provided strong evidence that the anticipated 
benefits that were evident through initial pilot projects can be sustained at scale as has been done 
throughout the last year with many of the use cases across the Supermarket and Consumer Foods 
businesses, in particular.
Use cases rolled-out in the Supermarket business are expected to continue its encouraging 
performance, making positive contributions across core aspects of the business value chain. 
Benefits of the use cases recently developed, piloted and deployed for the Beverages business 
are expected to accrue going forward, optimising promotional spend across modern trade and 
general trade segments as well as augmenting production planning. The use cases aimed at 
augmenting the efficiency of the distribution network of the Beverages and Frozen Confectionery 
businesses are in advanced stages of deployment and are envisaged to be concluded during the 
ensuing year. Discussions and pilot work are currently ongoing with the Leisure and Financial 
Services industry groups to implement use cases which have a high value capture rate. The Group 
will also continue to deploy use cases which optimise the synergies among its businesses. 
Managing Human Capital
The challenging macroeconomic conditions coupled with the rising costs of living across the past 
few years have contributed to increased migration. This has presented a notable challenge across 
Group businesses with higher attrition, particularly in the skilled workforce. The Group recognises 
the importance of talent retention and takes proactive steps to create an enabling environment 
where employees feel valued, supported, and motivated. Through a combination of competitive 
benefits, professional development opportunities, a positive corporate culture, and performance 
management practices, the Group aims to retain its talented workforce and promote value 
creation. Despite these interventions to retain talent, higher attrition has increased the need for 
more rigorous training aimed at talent retention, cross-functional training and development and 
awareness on Group processes and internal controls.
Initiatives Aimed at Managing the Group Cash and Liquidity Position
The multiple challenges faced by the country and the Group since 2018/19 have demonstrated 
the need for organisations to be agile, nimble and well-prepared for any unforeseen circumstances. 
The Group will continue to evaluate its resilience under various stress-tested scenarios, as 
well as continue to follow the various processes, frameworks and measures undertaken in the 
previous years to ensure a sustainable and agile operating model, with a focused view on cash 
management and liquidity. Accordingly, Group businesses will continue to:
	y
Use weekly dashboards, which cover financial and non-financial key performance indicators 
(KPIs), including monitoring of weekly cash and collection targets, as relevant to the various 
business units.
	y
Use 'spend control towers' to critically review each and every spend item, prioritise payments, 
and impose clear reporting metrics.
	y
Effect stringent expense control measures, subject to further review depending on the macro 
and operating environment.
	y
Critically evaluate the need for capital expenditure.
While the current liquidity position of the Group is sufficient to manage current and future 
commitments as planned, the Group will continue to take proactive steps with the view of 
maintaining a strong balance sheet, particularly considering the final stages of capital expenditure 
on the two large-ticket investment projects of the Group and the possible risks to the recovery of 
the macroeconomic environment.
OUTLOOK AND RISKS

113
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Capital Expenditure 
Despite the challenging and unprecedented years, the Group 
has carried out significant investments which have continued 
steadfastly, maintaining the depth and breadth of the Group's 
long-term investment strategy which is now coming to fruition. 
The investments in recent years have focused on a refurbished 
portfolio of Leisure properties and the acquisition of a long-term 
lease on a new hotel in the Maldives. The Group has also doubled its 
store footprint in the Supermarket business to over 130 outlets and 
capacity and capability investments in the Frozen Confectionery and 
Insurance businesses. The Group's integrated resort 'City of Dreams 
Sri Lanka', which has been under construction for the past 10 years 
and comprises of a significant allocation of capital employed, is near 
complete and slated to commence operations in the third quarter 
of 2024/25.  
The Group is confident of its ability to fund other expansion projects, 
if feasible, and as required, thereby optimising equity returns in the 
long run. 
In addition to the routine maintenance capital expenditure, the key 
investments the Group will focus on, in the near-term:
	y
Balance investment towards the completion of 'City of Dreams 
Sri Lanka'
	y
Investment towards the West Container Terminal (WCT-1) of the 
Port of Colombo
	y
Roll-out of the Supermarket outlets
	y
Completion of the 215-key hotel in Kandy, which follows an 
asset-light investment model, where the Group will hold a 40% 
minority equity stake.
KEY RISKS
Whilst the intersection of an economic resurgence and the realisation of 
the Group's landmark transformative projects is envisaged to generate 
significant prospects for both the country and the Group, the Group 
is mindful of the various risks impacting performance and consciously 
strives to ensure that various mechanisms and mitigatory interventions 
are in place to address such downside risks which impact the Group's 
outlook and may affect performance going forward. The Group's 
comprehensive enterprise-wide risk management process serves as the 
bedrock of this, ensuring a structured approach to risk identification and 
mitigation.
Risk Rating
 Ultra-High 
 High 
 Medium 
 Low
Macroeconomic and Political Environment
2023/24
2022/23
2021/22
Risk Rating
  High
  Ultra-High
  Ultra-High
Risk Overview: The risk was rated 'Ultra-high' in the past two financial 
years, given the uncertainty and volatility surrounding the pandemic, 
economic crisis and resultant socio-political tensions. The risk was 
reviewed and reduced to 'High' during the financial year under 
consideration, in tandem with the positive macroeconomic developments 
and an improvement in the economic, social and geopolitical 
environment. Despite the notable headway in the domestic economy 
with business continuing as usual, a rating of 'High' was assigned as 
the local economic and political environment is still in the early stages 
of recovery and it is too early to ascertain the impacts and uncertainty 
stemming from the elections which are due to be held this year.
Mitigation Strategy: Global and local economic and political trends are 
identified and analysed on an ongoing basis to understand potential 
impacts on the Group and implement necessary measures to adapt 
to any changes. The Group's senior management actively participates, 
and plays significant roles, in key decision and policy making bodies 
and consultative committees in support of the country's economic and 
development policies. The Group businesses also review and update 
their business resilience plans, taking into account potential changes to 
the external environment.
Capitals Impacted
  Financial and Manufactured Capital
Related Material Sustainability Topic
	y
Business conduct and ethics

114 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
Regulatory Environment
2023/24
2022/23
2021/22
Risk Rating
  High
  High
  High
Risk Overview: The Group witnessed a restoration of stability in 
regulatory, legal and tax frameworks and policies stemming from 
measures put in place to stabilise the economy. Given that the 
country is still recovering and policymakers are required to make 
further adjustments in tandem with the path of recovery and fiscal 
consolidation measures, this risk rating remains at a 'high' rating.
Mitigation Strategy: The Group's senior executives actively participate 
in key industry chambers and associations which assist in building 
clarity and consistency in policies and regulations. The Group monitors 
regulatory and compliance requirements on an ongoing basis and has in 
place the necessary internal processes and structures to ensure seamless 
adoption of new or revised legislation.
Capitals Impacted
	 Financial and Manufactured Capital
	 Natural Capital
	 Human Capital
	 Social and Relationship Capital
	
Intellectual Capital
Related Material Sustainability Topic
	y
Business conduct and ethics
	y
Corporate governance
Financial Exposure
2023/24
2022/23
2021/22
Risk Rating
  Medium
  Medium
  Medium
Risk Overview: Group Treasury, guided by the Group Executive 
Committee (GEC) and supported by the Finance functions of the 
businesses, is responsible for the management of certain financial risks 
through continuous monitoring of liquidity, financial exposures and 
funding requirements. Hedging mechanisms, liquidity management 
strategies, capital structuring, asset allocation limits, institutional 
limits and other Board approved strategies for interest rate, currency, 
counterparty and liquidity management are applied across the 
Group. Given the volatility and uncertainty in the global and domestic 
environment witnessed in recent years, the ensuing section details 
material sources of financial risk and the state of the Group's readiness to 
navigate such risks.
Capitals Impacted
	 Financial and Manufactured Capital
Related Material Sustainability Topic
	y
Corporate governance
Interest Rate
2023/24
Risk Rating
  High
Risk Overview: Inflation expectations remained well anchored 
during the year, on the back of reduced Government debt financing 
requirements and improved liquidity. The dovish monetary policy 
stance coupled with improved liquidity conditions in the market aided 
financial institutions to pass on the benefits of rate reductions to market 
participants. The full benefits of the policy will be felt in the ensuing year, 
leading to an overall reduction in the cost of funds for the Group.   
Mitigation Strategy: The Group will continue to mitigate the risk  
of decreasing interest rates by investing its excess cash in  
medium-term investments subject to liquidity requirements. The 
portfolio of borrowings will also be constantly repriced to ensure 
that reductions in borrowing rates are factored in. Similar to 2023/24, 
relatively high-cost facilities are earmarked to be refinanced with lower 
cost facilities in order to reduce the overall cost of funds. In respect of 
the Group's foreign currency borrowing portfolio, interest rate swap 
agreements are in place for a sizeable portion of the facilities. The Group 
will look to manage the exposure on the remainder of the facilities based 
on the interest rate outlook in the US considering expectations for the 
possible commencement of a rate easing cycle.
Currency / Exchange Rate
2023/24
Risk Rating
  High
Risk Overview: The Sri Lankan Rupee recorded a marked appreciation 
in the first quarter of the financial year, followed by some volatility 
during certain periods of the financial year. The foreign exchange 
liquidity continued to improve during the financial year on the back 
of an improvement in the trade surplus given the sharp contraction of 
imports due to the fiscal and monetary policy measures adopted in the 
country, and the continuation of import restrictions at the time. The 
external financing position continued to strengthen during the year 
driven by resilience in exports and a strong recovery of tourism receipts 
and offshore worker remittances. The disbursement of the first tranche 
of the Extended Fund Facility from the International Monetary Fund 
(IMF), the completion of the Domestic Debt Optimisation programme 
and the ongoing positive negotiations with key lenders on the External 
Debt Optimisation programme contributed to the strengthening foreign 
exchange market.
Mitigation Strategy: The Group will continue to adopt prudent 
measures, as and when required, to manage the financial impacts arising 
from currency fluctuations by matching liabilities with corresponding 
inflows and by adopting currency hedging strategies. At a Group level, 
the translation risk on foreign currency debt is largely hedged 'naturally' 
as a result of the conscious strategy of maintaining US Dollar cash 
balances at the Holding Company, whilst also ensuring obligations are 
managed through US Dollar denominated revenue streams.
OUTLOOK AND RISKS

115
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
INSIGHTS
Managing the Group's foreign currency exposure
Managing the Group's exposure to foreign currency fluctuations is of utmost 
priority. The Rupee witnessed a notable appreciation of ~11% in 2023/24 
as a result of fiscal and monetary policy measures and foreign fund flows. 
Movements in the exchange rate have the following implications on the 
Group's financial position, if not optimally managed.
	y
Gross debt will record a movement, given the translation impact on 
the USD 175 million long-term loan facility at the Holding Company 
and the USD 219 million long-term loan facility at Waterfront 
Properties (Private) Limited (WPL).
	y
Any translation impact on the USD 175 million long-term loan 
facility is negated at a net debt level as the Holding Company 
maintains a net foreign currency cash position as at the date of the 
Report. Any exchange impact stemming from foreign currency cash 
holdings, if applicable, is likely to be immaterial as there would be a 
corresponding liability off-setting such impacts. 
	y
The foreign currency cash holdings include the funds earmarked 
for the equity infusions of the 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka' project and 
the funds raised for the Group's investment pipeline via the debt 
drawdown of the long-term loan facility from the International 
Finance Corporation (IFC), the private placement of ordinary shares to 
the Asian Development Bank as well as the convertible debentures to 
HWIC Asia Fund.
	y
At a Group level, the foreign currency exposure is primarily on 
account of the USD 219 million long-term loan facility at WPL and 
other foreign currency linked borrowings across the rest of the 
businesses, particularly within the Leisure industry. The exposure 
on the loan at WPL arises due to the Group's decision to shift the 
functional reporting currency of the project entity to Sri Lankan 
Rupees, as disclosed during the year. However, the translation risk is/
will be largely hedged 'naturally' as a result of the conscious strategy 
of matching liabilities against foreign currency denominated assets 
and revenue streams, to the extent possible. The exposure at WPL will 
continue till such time operations commence and ramp up at the 
'City of Dreams Sri Lanka', whereas the Group already has a 'natural 
hedge' in its current operations in the rest of the Leisure portfolio. 
	y
The Group will continue to manage its foreign currency portfolio 
and investment pipeline optimally, by matching liabilities against 
corresponding assets, where possible. 
Credit and Counterparty
2023/24
Risk Rating
  Low
Mitigation Strategy: The Group will continue to liaise with only reputed 
creditworthy counterparties. All clients are subjected to credit verification 
procedures and are required to submit bank guarantees, performance bonds 
or counter guarantees, as applicable. These clients are regularly monitored, 
and subject arrangements are frequently reviewed. Concentration risk 
stemming from any single counterparty or asset class is mitigated due to 
internally set exposure limits, which are reviewed on a routine basis and 
amended as necessary. While certain exposures continue to be monitored, 
these are not significant in the context of the Group and should diminish 
with the improving macro environment.
Liquidity
2023/24
Risk Rating
  Low
Mitigation Strategy: The Group will continue to place emphasis on 
ensuring that cash and undrawn committed facilities are sufficient 
to meet the short, medium and long-term funding requirements, 
unforeseen obligations as well as unanticipated opportunities. 
Constant dialogue between Group companies and banks regarding 
financing requirements, ensures that availability within each single 
borrower limit is optimised by efficiently reallocating underutilised 
facilities within the Group. The Group is actively in discussion with 
its bankers regarding the new regulations on single borrower limits 
as stipulated by the CBSL. While all borrowers will be impacted by 
this regulation over the ensuing few years, the Group will proactively 
manage the limit allocations as well as expand its network of financing 
institutions, as required.
The daily cash management processes at the Holding Company 
include active cash flow forecasts and matching the duration and 
profiles of assets and liabilities, thereby ensuring a prudent balance 
between liquidity and earnings. 
The GEC frequently reviews the ability of the Holding Company to 
fund the forecasted pipeline of projects for the ensuing five years, 
which is further stress-tested to include scenarios of extreme distress 
in the operating environment and the resulting adverse impacts on 
business profitability. Although the recent macroeconomic challenges 
have placed some pressure on cash flows and financial indicators, 
active liquidity management and cost management strategies across 
the Group have helped insulate this impact. The Group will continue 
to maintain adequate banking facilities and proactively manage its 
liquidity position.
Information Technology
2023/24
2022/23
2021/22
Risk Rating
  High
  Medium
  Medium
Risk Overview: As the employees of the Group settled into an agile 
work arrangement, with a certain portion of staff working remotely, 
cybersecurity has remained a priority to ensure no negative impacts 
on business operations and Group reputation. The stakeholder and 
consumer demand for availability and quality of online and digital 
tools for service and product offerings have continued in a post-
pandemic environment, as expected. With the highly sensitive and 
continually evolving nature of IT related risks within the context of the 
current environment.
As the dependency on digital data is increasing, the impact of a 
breach in information security or data privacy is high, and the risk has 
been increased to a 'High' in acknowledging the repercussions and 
significance of this risk.

116 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
Mitigation Strategy: The Group's risk-based Zero Trust Cybersecurity 
Policy Framework continues to ensure information accessed or 
processed, the devices and networks deployed, the workloads and 
applications used, and the services provided are secure and resilient. 
The policy framework sets out the minimum tools required, and the 
mandatory controls the organisation should possess. These tools and 
controls are designed to protect the Group from threat actors affecting 
the operations, detect the effectiveness of the controls implemented 
and respond and recover from malicious cyber activity across all 
operational environments.
The Policy Framework is based on the principles of continuous 
authentication, least privilege, assume breach, micro-segmentation, 
advanced encryption, endpoint security, automation and orchestration, 
visibility and analytics, and robust assurance, among other capabilities, to 
fortify the identities, devices, networks, data, applications, workloads, and 
ensures efficient architecture to deliver services and cyber resiliency that 
enhances security, the user experience, and overall performance.
The Policy Framework also enables the Group's business units and 
functional units to complement the Zero Trust Cybersecurity Policy 
Framework with necessary additional, business-specific policies and 
standard operating procedures (SOP) to strengthen the security posture, 
which is approved by their respective Business Unit Boards, Board Audit 
Committees as well as the GEC. Any audit review will be taken in this 
context to enable the businesses to make educated, conscious decisions 
with respect to full compliance with the policies vis-à-vis other business 
implications.
This Policy Framework also provides the Group with the required 
governance, resilience and assurance to implement the digital 
transformation strategies whilst ensuring the required flexibility to 
become a data-driven and digital first organisation.
Capitals Impacted
	 Financial and Manufactured Capital
	 Social and Relationship Capital
Related Material Sustainability Topic
	y
Business conduct and ethics
Global Competition
2023/24
2022/23
2021/22
Risk Rating
  Low
  Low
  Low
Risk Overview: Whilst the Group continues to be a leading player 
in industries in which it operates, it recognises that continuous 
improvement and adherence to global best practice and standards is 
required to maintain competitiveness, given increasing globalisation and 
investments into Sri Lanka by international companies and brands.
Mitigation Strategy: All Group businesses are required to develop a 
global outlook to ensure that their operations, employees and quality 
standards are benchmarked against international levels. The leadership 
teams constantly scan the external environments for new opportunities 
and potential for improvements while also obtaining the relevant 
expertise and know-how for particular aspects of their business. The 
Group also has a Digitisation Steering Committee in place and continues 
to explore disruptive and innovative technologies, aiming to keep 
abreast of emerging technologies that will assist the Group in enhancing 
stakeholder satisfaction and internal productivity and efficiencies. This 
culture pervades through the Group, with a Chairperson's Award for 
Disruption Innovation awarded annually for businesses which best 
exemplify this ethos. Given the strategies in place, this risk remains at a 
'Low' rating.
Capitals Impacted
	 Financial and Manufactured Capital
	 Human Capital
	
Intellectual Capital
Related Material Sustainability Topic
	y
Business conduct and ethics
Human Resources and Talent Management
2023/24
2022/23
2021/22
Risk Rating
  High
  High
  High
Risk Overview: The 'High' risk rating continues for the period under 
review as the challenge of attracting and retaining talent remains, due to 
persons of employable potential moving to other countries due to the 
socio-political uncertainty that was prevalent recently. 
The Group continued its efforts in skill building in line with its talent 
management strategy, and in offering additional support to its 
employees such as through financial care packages and temporary crisis 
allowances in order to sustainably manage its human capital and meet 
the businesses long-term objectives.
Mitigation Strategy: The Group's human capital strategy is to acquire, 
cultivate and retain talent, as it is a critical component in ensuring its 
businesses continue to grow, innovate and create long-term value for 
its stakeholders. It has in place robust policies and internal systems to 
ensure it is a preferred employer, ensuring its employees have ample 
opportunities for skill enhancement and career development, with a 
performance driven culture and strong performance management and 
reward and recognition schemes. Employee engagement is considered 
a key component of its retention strategy, with internal surveys and 
platforms for interaction with senior leadership in place, alongside 
close monitoring of talent attrition. The Group also has well-established 
grievance mechanisms, healthy relations with unions and also policies 
on sexual harassment and non-discrimination in place. 
Capitals Impacted
	 Human Capital
Related Material Sustainability Topic
	y
Talent attraction and retention
	y
Diversity and equal opportunity 
	y
Occupational health & safety 
	y
Business conduct and ethics 
	y
Corporate governance
OUTLOOK AND RISKS

117
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Environment and Health & Safety
2023/24
2022/23
2021/22
Risk Rating
  Low
  Low
  Low
Risk Overview: The Group continues to prioritise its environmental 
performance and the provision of a safe and healthy working 
environment for its workforce. The Group maintains and reports on 
standards required of local and global corporates by its key stakeholders. 
Such risks can be physical, regulatory or reputational, and stakeholder 
expectations and requirements continue to grow in this area of focus.
Mitigation Strategy: The Group has in place a multitude of 
environmental and health and safety policies, bolstered by a well-
established sustainability management framework which ensures 
that environmental and safety concerns are embedded into the core 
of all business operations. Quarterly tracking of indicators such as 
energy, emissions, water, waste and effluents, injuries and lost days 
ensure that companies at a minimum, meet all applicable laws and 
regulations, while striving to meet international benchmarks. Businesses 
continuously align with global best practice through international 
certifications such as ISO 14001 Environmental Management standards 
and ISO 45001 Occupational Health and Safety standards among others. 
All businesses have environmental and social objectives built into their 
performance expectations and a culture of excellence is encouraged 
through recognition schemes such as the Chairperson's Award for 
Sustainability.
Safe and healthy working conditions have always been a priority for the 
Group. In the year under review, Group businesses further strengthened 
working conditions by ensuring workplaces operated in line with all 
guidelines and measures stipulated by Government and health authorities. 
Specific protocols were developed for the Group and stringent health 
and safety measures taken across all functions and businesses. The 
implementation of such health and safety standards will aid the business 
in managing such risks going forward. The Group will review and assess 
such procedures on a continuing basis to ensure new developments are 
adequately addressed. While this risk was rated a 'Low' based on the Group's 
robust approach to safeguarding the health and safety of its internal and 
external stakeholders, it remains an area that will be closely monitored. 
Taking a proactive approach to adequately prepare for environment and 
climate related business disruptions, the Group will further update the 
Business Continuity Plans (BCP). Disaster Recovery (DR) tests will also be 
run across businesses to assess the effectiveness of the BCP's in place.
Risk due to Climate Change 
With climate changes increasingly affecting the business landscape 
in varied forms, the Group recognises the importance of assessing 
how climate change may impact its operations, including instilling 
mitigative actions to minimise such risks. The Group is also mindful 
of the role businesses have to play in minimising its impact to 
climate change. 
Businesses recognised and recorded the risk in their respective 
risk portfolios while the impact of such risk is under continuous 
assessment and mitigation plans were put in place.
The Group is in the process of developing its Climate Change 
Mitigation Policy with the assistance of external subject experts.
Capitals Impacted
	 Natural Capital
	 Human Capital
	 Social and Relationship Capital
Related Material Sustainability Topic
	y
Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions  
	y
Waste management  
	y
Water and wastewater management 
	y
Corporate governance 
	y
Occupational health and safety
Reputation and Brand Image
2023/24
2022/23
2021/22
Risk Rating
  Low
  Low
  Low
Risk Overview: The Group recognises that reputation and brand 
image have a direct bearing on an organisation's ability to operate and 
create value over a long-term horizon. As a result, it highly values its 
longstanding reputation as an ethical corporate, with zero tolerance for 
breaches in regulatory compliance or governance.
Mitigation Strategy: The Group has a stringent Code of Conduct 
that all businesses and employees are required to adhere to. This is 
strengthened through a robust governance framework that includes 
an anti-corruption, anti-bribery and anti-money laundering policy, 
a whistle-blower process, an independent ombudsperson and a 
'Chairperson Direct' communication line. All businesses conduct risk 
assessments to identify significant risks related to corruption and address 
such risks through appropriate mitigative actions.
All marketing and public communications are vetted in line with the 
Group's policies on marketing and communications and product 
quality standards are maintained through stringent quality assurance 
processes. The Group uses a variety of means of communication and 
aims to ensure its brand presence is well established and its reputation is 
maintained on new social media platforms. The John Keells Foundation 
further reinforces the Group's reputation through its long-running 
and numerous strategic corporate social responsibility activities, 
ranging from areas such as community infrastructure and education to 
environmental protection. This risk was rated 'low'.
Capitals Impacted
	 Social and Relationship Capital
	
Intellectual Capital
Related Material Sustainability Topic
	y
Business conduct and ethics 
	y
Corporate governance
	y
Risk management

118 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
Supply Chain Risk
2023/24
2022/23
2021/22
Risk Rating
  Medium
  High
  Ultra-High
Risk Overview: Managing and retaining a mutually beneficial partnership 
with its supply chain is a priority to the Group. To this end, significant 
efforts are made to sustainably enhance this partnership. Stakeholders 
expect businesses to extend their sphere of influence beyond company 
boundaries and value chains. Sustainability continues to increase in 
significance as a means of showing maturity and completeness in 
sustainability performance reporting. Since the Group witnessed an ease 
in supply chain pressures in terms of the removal of import restrictions 
(other than for vehicles), stabilisation in fuel and other energy costs, and 
unrestricted access to power and energy with the removal of fuel quotas, 
the risk was revised to 'Medium', while being mindful of the situation.
Mitigation Strategy: The Group has in place a supplier management 
framework as a means of managing its supply chain risk. All suppliers 
are apprised of and expected to align with the Group's Supplier Code 
of Conduct which sets out expectations of supplier performance with 
respect to key sustainability aspects, including environmental, ethical 
labour practices, anti-corruption requirements and regulatory and 
legal compliances. Supplier assessments and audits aid in identifying 
suppliers in need of development. Annual engagements are carried out 
with suppliers through supplier fora and trainings to aid in knowledge 
transfer and sharing of best practice. The Group will make continual 
efforts to support its suppliers, wherever possible, through knowledge 
transfer sessions and other initiatives.
Capitals Impacted
	 Social and Relationship Capital
Related Material Sustainability Topic
	y
Business conduct and ethics 
	y
Risk management  
OUTLOOK AND RISKS

119
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
STRATEGY, RESOURCE ALLOCATION AND 
PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT 
The Strategy, Resource Allocation and Portfolio Management section aims 
to provide detailed insights into the process in which investment decisions 
of the Group are made by analysing the performance of the overall portfolio, 
the overall strategic direction of the Group and the means by which capital is 
allocated for investments.
The unprecedented events commencing from the Easter Sunday attacks in April 2019, the Covid-19 pandemic and the domestic 
macroeconomic crisis have impacted the performance of businesses in the portfolio. Despite these challenges, the long-term 
strategic trajectory of the Group's portfolio and the strategic investments made over last few years have enabled the Group to 
withstand and navigate through such headwinds and position the portfolio to explore opportunities and to meet with the  
long-term aspirations of the Group.
In managing its portfolio, the Group places emphasis on identifying 
and pursuing growth prospects that would help deliver on its medium 
to long-term objectives and realise the Group's vision of 'Building 
businesses that are leaders in the region'. With this aim, businesses adopt 
a systematic approach to resource allocation that is aligned with the 
core values and overall strategic direction of the Group. 
As evident from the past, the Group strives to constantly align its 
portfolio of businesses with the key growth sectors of the economy, 
both current and futuristic, and continuously endeavours to ensure 
that capital resources are efficiently employed in a manner that will 
ensure resilience, maintain relevance, enable agility, expand the reach 
of the portfolio, and provide the ability to compete, both locally and 
internationally. The Group believes the current portfolio continues to 
serve that purpose and that its investments over the last few years, and 
planned investments, in these core areas reinforce this strategy.
The Group is of the view that the fundamentals and potential of the 
industries the Group operates in, remain unchanged, as the demand 
drivers underpinning the business would still be relevant in the medium 
to long-term, although there may be changes to operating models 
in some areas. The challenges which prevailed during the past few 
years have heightened the need for digitisation, disruptive innovation, 
diversification, particularly across geographies and the need for offshore 
revenue streams. 
The Group believes that the balance of the composition of businesses 
of the core portfolio are appropriate given the diverse nature of revenue 
streams as well as the direct and indirect exposure to foreign currency 
denominated income streams through the Leisure, Ports and Shipping 
and Bunkering businesses and new opportunities being pursued by the 
Consumer Foods industry group. Although the year under review was 
impacted by the translation impact stemming from the appreciation 
of the Rupee, the balance in the portfolio enables the Group to deliver 
sustained value creation as evident in the past, where such businesses 
performed exceptionally well in cushioning the impacts from the 
domestic environment.   
The Group's strategic investment in 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka' (previously 
branded as 'Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort') and the West Container 
Terminal (WCT-1) project at the Port of Colombo are poised to drive long-
term capital returns and augment the Group's foreign currency income 
streams. The Group's partnership with Melco Resorts and Entertainment, to 
fit-out and operate the gaming facility and manage the 113-key exclusive 
ultra high-end luxury-standard hotel, is also envisaged to be a catalyst in 
creating tourism demand and foreign exchange earnings for Sri Lanka.
Refer the Leisure and Transportation industry groups for a discussion on 'City of 
Dreams Sri Lanka' integrated resort and WCT-1, respectively – Page 166 and 135.
The following are some of the key strategic initiatives pursued across 
Group businesses in furtherance of achieving its short, medium and 
long-term objectives. 
	
Sustainable Value Creation 
The Group's strategy focuses on driving sustainable, consistent, 
competitive and responsible growth by expanding revenue 
channels, increasing market share and actively exploring 
opportunities through fostering a culture of disruptive innovation 
and digitisation in a sustainable and responsible manner.
	 Cost Optimisation
Emphasis is placed on maintaining flexible cost structures, to 
enhance efficiencies and profit maximisation, in addition to 
agility and prudence. This has continued to assist businesses to 
navigate many challenges particularly in the recent past. 
	
Brand Development
The Group's strategy focuses on building brand equity through a 
comprehensive understanding of its target market and aligning 
with the brand's promise and vision to ensure a stakeholder-
centric approach. 
	
Talent Management
The Group is committed to recruiting, developing, and 
retaining a talented pool of employees, fostering a diverse and 
performance-oriented culture that drives sustainable growth. 
Over the years, the Group has attracted the best and the 
brightest talent towards building a strong team that reflects the 
diversity of the customers the Group serves. 
	 Process and Risk Management
Focus on strengthening the business processes and governance 
checks across the Group through re-engineering, process 
improvement, enterprise risk management and quality 
management in line with international best practice. 

120 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
Financial Filter
Bedrock of the decision 
criteria based on the 
JKH hurdle rate
Growth Filter
Evaluates the industry 
attractiveness and 
growth potential based 
on the industry lifecycle 
Strategic Fit
Evaluates the long-term competitive 
advantage of a business/industry by 
closely evaluating the competitive 
forces, specific industry/business 
risks, ability to control value drivers 
and the competencies and critical 
success factors inherent to the Group
Complexity Filter
Considers factors such 
as sustainability, senior 
management time and the 
risk to brand image and 
reputation in conjunction 
with anticipated returns
Given the Holding Company's diversified interests, resource allocation and portfolio management are imperative in creating value for all 
stakeholders through evaluation of the Group's fundamentals which are centred on the forms of Capital. Whilst there are potential opportunities 
in diverse industries, the Group continues to follow its four-step, structured methodology indicated below, in evaluating its portfolio and thereby 
guiding investment and divestment decisions.
The Project Risk Assessment Committee, a sub-committee of the Board, provides the Board with increased visibility of large-scale new 
investments and assists the Board in assessing risks associated with significant investments, particularly at the initial stages of discussions, by 
providing feedback and suggestions in relation to mitigating risks and structuring arrangements. Intervention is mandatory as per the committee 
scope, if the investment value exceeds a Board mandated threshold.
STRATEGY, RESOURCE ALLOCATION AND 
PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT 
	 Digitisation
The Group's digitisation drive is aimed at identifying emerging 
and current disruptive business trends to enhance the digital 
quotient (DQ) of individuals and businesses. These efforts are 
expected to increase productivity and efficiency by leveraging 
digital technologies and disruptive business models. 
	 Environmental Responsibility
The Group strategy places significant emphasis on minimising 
environmental impacts of its operations through impact 
assessment and stakeholder engagement. Governed by a 
comprehensive environmental impact management system 
and Group-wide sustainability goals, all operational decisions 
consider the effect on the Group's sustainability goals and ensure 
that all possible actions are taken towards mitigating adverse 
environmental impacts.
	 Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DE&I)
Advances a culture of equitable inclusion through the ONE JKH 
initiative, aiming to encourage and embrace diversity, attract 
and retain the best talent and enhance productivity across the 
Group's value chains and communities. 
	 Community and Corporate Social Responsibility 
(CSR)
Places emphasis on rolling out community empowerment 
initiatives, to ensure a collective and targeted focus towards the 
three dimensions of sustainable development - economic growth, 
social inclusion and environmental protection. The initiatives are 
centrally planned and implemented by the John Keells Foundation. 
REGULAR ASSESSMENT OF RISK AND REWARD 
In measuring operational performance, all verticals and businesses within each industry group are regularly assessed on key dimensions such 
as customer orientation, supplier concentration, bargaining power of both customers and suppliers, joint venture (JV) partner affiliations and 
dependence, cyclicality, performance against the industry and Sri Lankan economy, procedural, regulatory or technological factors that obstruct or 
restrict operations and the current and potential competitive landscape, among others. 
The capital structure for new ventures is stress-tested under various sensitised scenarios, which often results in the execution of proactive measures, 
particularly in managing potential foreign exchange risks during both the development and operating phases. Further, ongoing projects are regularly 
tested and evaluated in partnership with independent and recognised parties to ensure clear, impartial judgment on matters relating to capital 
structure, economic implications and key risks.
JKH'S HURDLE RATE 
The present hurdle rate of JKH is at 15%, which is a function of the weighted average cost of capital (WACC). The WACC is derived from the Group's cost 
of equity, cost of debt, target capital structure, tax rates and the value creation premium required over and above the WACC. 
As outlined in the 2022/23 JKH Annual Report, the Group followed a 'wait and see' approach last year to determine the need to revise its hurdle rate as an 
adjustment would be warranted only if the macroeconomic factors, which have seen significant volatility in the recent past, are expected to be sustained 
over the long-term. With the gradual normalisation of the macroeconomic indicators and reversion to mean levels, the hurdle rate was kept at the same 
level this year. The Group will continue to monitor the evolution of rates to determine if an adjustment to the long-term hurdle rate is warranted. 

121
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
It is also noted that this hurdle rate is utilised as the initial benchmark 
rate in evaluating the feasibility and opportunity in all projects of the 
Group, and that project specific modifiers are also used in order to get 
a more granular view of the projects under consideration. For example, 
a country specific risk modifier would be applied for investments 
with a high proportion of foreign currency investment costs and 
operational cash flows. To this end, the modifier would use a project 
specific cost of debt and foreign currency denominated equity return 
benchmark commensurate with the investment, which in turn would be 
comparatively analysed against projects with similar risk profiles.
CONCEPTUALISING PORTFOLIO PERFORMANCE 
The Group aims to strike a balance between optimising immediate 
portfolio returns against returns in the medium to long-term. As such, 
emphasis is placed on both return generating capabilities of the business 
against its capital employed and the earnings potential of the business or 
project. This is particularly relevant with projects such as 'City of Dreams 
Sri Lanka' and the WCT-1 project which have long gestation periods, and 
as such, impact the short-term portfolio returns during the development 
phase of the project. Once operational and fully ramped up, both projects 
hold the potential for a transformative impact on the Group's performance 
and consequently, return on capital employed (ROCE).
The Group is conscious of the quantum of capital deployed in 
businesses, and, to this end, places significant emphasis on evaluating 
projects in a manner which optimises capital efficiency, especially in 
capital intensive businesses such as Leisure and Property Development. 
In order to manage the effective quantum of capital deployed, the 
Group will continue to explore investment structuring options such as 
asset-light investment models for future hotel projects and monetising 
the land bank of the Group in such a manner that generates a return 
from the strategic parcels of land held.
Being a portfolio of businesses, the Group has benefited from contributions 
from different businesses at varying points of time based on their growth 
cycle and correlation with overall economic growth in the country. Over 
the last few years, the Group has witnessed a shift in the composition 
of its earnings with a greater contribution from higher ROCE earning 
industry groups such as Consumer Foods, Retail, Financial Services and 
Transportation. Looking beyond the short-term impacts of the challenges 
faced during the past years, the conscious and planned strategies of driving 
growth in these industry groups are expected to continue contributing 
towards an improvement in the ROCE for the Group, as seen in recent 
performance, whilst concurrently driving absolute earnings growth.
LONG-TERM ASPIRATIONS 
The Group continually endeavours to deliver value to its multitude of 
stakeholders, particularly shareholders. To this end, the Group has in place 
long-term financial goals which are continually monitored to ensure 
that the Group is moving progressively towards its vision and objectives, 
although recent performance has been impacted, and, to an extent 
distorted, by the effects of the intensive capital expenditure cycle of the 
Group and multiple years of disruption, from the Covid-19 pandemic and 
the domestic macroeconomic crisis thereafter. The Group believes these 
targets are still relevant in the medium to long-term and is confident of 
reaching these targets in such a time horizon.
Indicator (%)
Goal
Achievement
31 March 
2024
31 March 
2023
31 March 
2022
EBIT growth
>20
1.6
59.6
166.7
EPS growth (fully diluted)
>20
(38.7)
(13.2)
318.0
Cash EPS growth (fully 
diluted)
>20
(49.6) 
(5.3)
324.9 
Long-term return on 
capital employed (ROCE)
15
5.5
5.5
4.2 
Long-term return on 
equity (ROE)
18
3.2
5.6
7.5
Net debt (cash) to equity 
(with leases)
50
42.2
45.4
33.7
Net debt (cash) to equity 
(without leases)
50
33.7
35.9
23.5
Performance of the Portfolio
The Group return on capital employed (ROCE) remained flat at 5.5% 
given the muted performance of the Group at an EBIT level, as morefully 
discussed under the Financial and Manufactured Capital Review while 
capital employed remaining largely unchanged. However, the Group 
return on equity (ROE) recorded a deterioration from 5.6% in 2022/23 to 
3.2%, primarily on account of:  
	y
a reduction in the profit attributable to equity holders by 38%, and; 
	y
the increase in the equity base on account of the partial conversion 
of HWIC Debentures.  
Refer Financial and Manufactured Capital Review for further details – Page 51
Group Return on Capital Employed
ROCE
(%)
=
EBIT 
margin 
(%)
x
Asset 
turnover
x
Capital 
structure 
leverage
2023/24
5.5
10.8
0.42
1.21
2022/23 
5.5 
10.8 
0.43 
1.20
Group Return on Equity
ROE
(%)
=
Return 
on assets 
(%)
x
Common 
earnings 
leverage 
x
Equity 
multiplier 
2023/24
3.2
1.6
0.93
2.17
2022/23 
5.6 
2.6 
0.96 
2.24
INSIGHTS
In February 2024, HWIC Asia Fund, a subsidiary of Fairfax Financial 
Holdings Limited exercised its option to convert 110,000,000 
Debentures with a face value of Rs.14.30 billion. 
From a portfolio management perspective, since the convertible 
debentures and the corresponding impact is already factored in 
the capital structure of the Group, the shift in the classification 
from a liability to equity has no impact on capital employed at the 
point of conversion. However, the increase in equity has a negative 
impact on ROE in the immediate-term. 
Refer Financial and Manufactured Capital Review for further details of 
the convertible debentures – Page 51

122 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
The multiple capital raising transactions in the past few years, commencing from the long-term financing facility obtained from the International Finance 
Corporation (IFC) in 2020/21, to the private placement of shares to the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and the convertible debenture issuance to HWIC 
Asia Fund has contributed to a notable increase in the capital base, all of which have negative impacts on ROCE, especially given that, across the years, 
capital employed has significantly increased as a result of the 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka' project, including the more recent WCT-1 project which is still in 
the development phase. These strategic choices, however, are catalysts for future growth and risk mitigation; while the Group is cognisant of the short-
term effects on performance, priority has always been given to striking a balance between short-term performance and the accretive value creation 
in the long-term. The Group is of the view that strengthening the capital base has enabled it to navigate the past economic crisis and emerge resilient 
considering the investments in building its businesses and bringing transformational investments closer to reality. Although, admittedly, these decisions 
have resulted in negative impacts in the short-term, the Group is of the view that it will provide the impetus for and result in long-term value creation.
Refer Industry Group Review for further details – Page 135
Portfolio Movements 
Portfolio movements over the past five years are illustrated below.
Key movements:
	y
Capital employed attributable to the 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka' project has increased across the years, and accounts for a significant proportion of 
the capital employed base. This is reflected under capital employed of the Leisure industry group. 
	y
In 2022/23, assets pertaining to the hotel, retail and entertainment components of 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka' were transferred to the Leisure industry 
group from the Property industry group. 
STRATEGY, RESOURCE ALLOCATION AND 
PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT 
0
(10)
40
120
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
180
200
240
220
260
280
300
320
340
360
380
400
420
440
460
480
500
520
ROCE (%)
Hotel Management - 116.7
Financial Services - 36.1
Transportation - 33.6
Destination Management - 16.2
Maldivian Resorts - 3.8
Colombo Hotels - 2.2
City of Dreams Sri Lanka - (0.4)
Property (excl. City of Dreams Sri Lanka) - (2.9)
Hurdle Rate - 15.0% 
Capital
employed
(Rs.billion)
Consumer Foods - 21.5
Retail - 16.6
Plantation Services - 9.9
Information Technology - 8.9
Sri Lankan Resorts - 3.5
FY20
FY21
FY22
FY23
FY24
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
Transportation
Consumer Foods
Retail
Leisure
Property
Financial Services
Other, incl. Information
Technology and Plantation Services 
Capital employed
(Rs.billion)

123
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Investments
JKH invested Rs.8.42 billion in 
Waterfront Properties (Private) 
Limited (WPL).
JKH invested Rs.13.55 billion in 
WPL.
JKH invested Rs.80.91 billion in 
WPL.
JKH invested Rs.19.58 billion 
in WPL.
JKH invested Rs.5.98 billion in JK 
Land (Private) Limited, increasing 
the shareholding in Vauxhall 
Land Developments (Private) 
Limited to 86.7% from 60.0%.
JKH invested Rs.1.94 billion in JK 
Land (Private) Limited. Further 
to this, JK Land acquired the 
remaining 13.3% equity stake 
in Vauxhall Land Developments 
(Private) Limited for a 
consideration of Rs.2.99 billion.
JKH invested Rs.2.72 billion in 
WCT-1.
JKH invested Rs.5.17 billion in 
WCT-1.
JKH invested Rs.215 million in 
preference shares in Saffron 
Aviation (Private) Limited.
JKH invested Rs.2.86 billion in 
Colombo West International 
Container Terminal (Private) 
Limited (WCT-1).
KHL further invested Rs.582 
million in Indra Hotels and 
Resorts Kandy (Private) Limited, 
for the construction work of 
'Cinnamon Red Kandy'.
KHL further invested Rs.105 
million in Indra Hotels and 
Resorts Kandy (Private) Limited, 
for the construction work of 
'Cinnamon Red Kandy'.
JKH invested Rs.74 million in 
preference shares in Saffron 
Aviation (Private) Limited.
JKH made an initial investment 
of Rs.400 in subscribing to the 
promoter shares of John Keells 
CG Auto (Private) Limited.
JKH invested Rs.16 million in 
Inchcape Mackinnon Mackenzie 
Shipping (Private) Limited.
Divestments
JKH divested 98.88 perches of 
land in Tickell Road, Colombo 
8, for a consideration of Rs.1.14 
billion.
JKH divested 2.66 acres of land 
held under KHL in Nuwara Eliya, 
for a consideration of Rs.362 
million.
2020/21
2021/22
2022/23
2023/24
Significant Movements of the Portfolio and Capital Employed

124 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
SHARE INFORMATION
This section entails an overview of the 
market conditions which prevailed 
during the year under review, both 
globally and locally. The section 
concludes with a discussion on JKH 
share-related information.
Total number of shares in issue as at 
31 March 2024*
1,489,819,707 
Public shareholding as at 31 March 2024
    99.24%
Stock symbol 
JKH.N0000
Newswire codes of the JKH Share
 
Bloomberg
JKH.SL
Dow Jones
P.JKH
Reuters
JKH.CM
Global Depositary Receipts (GDRs)** balance
1,320,942
*Includes GDRs.
**Terminated in November 2023, cancellations open until 14 June 2024.
GLOBAL AND LOCAL EQUITY MARKET REVIEW
Global Equity Market Review
CY2023 marked a strong year for global equity markets, with double-
digit returns across major indices worldwide. This surge in market activity 
was driven by positive investor sentiment which was spurred by easing 
inflation, resilience in the global economy and indications of dovish 
monetary policy stances going forward from most major central banks 
worldwide. 
Accordingly, the MSCI World Index increased by 22.8%, marking its 
best performance in four years. The S&P 500 index increased by 26.3%, 
nearly reaching its record high of 26.9% in CY2021, whilst the Dow 
Jones Industrials Average Index also witnessed an increase of 13.7%. 
The Nasdaq Composite also posted an impressive return of 43.4% in 
CY2023, marking its strongest performance in two decades. The United 
Kingdom's FTSE 100 recorded a 3.8% increase in CY2023 while Europe 
STOXX 600 increased by 12.6%. In Asia, Japan's Nikkei 225 grew by 
28.2%, while India's BSE Sensex increased by 18.7%. However, China's 
stock market was an outlier for CY2023, with the Shanghai Composite 
Index decreasing by 3.7% on the back of lower-than-expected economic 
recovery and other local challenges.
As evident from the graph below, equity markets outperformed other 
asset classes, on average, in CY2023. 
Shifts in Asset Classes 
Shifts in Asset Classes 
(CY23 YTD performance: %, end-of-week)
(CY23 YTD performance: %, end-of-week)
Equities
Hang Seng 
Brent ($/bl)
Yen
Chinese Yuan
US Dollar 
Copper ($/t)
US 10Y 
Euro 
Pound Sterling
UK 10Y 
Global Govt. (hgd $) 
German 10Y 
SMI 
MSCI UK 
Swiss 10Y 
Swiss Franc
Global IG (hgd $) 
MSCI EM ($) 
Gold ($/oz)
Global HY (hgd $) 
CAC 
DAX 
MSCI AWCI ($) 
Euro STOXX 50 
S & P 500 
Bonds
Currencies
Commodities
(10)
(5)
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
(10.5)
(10.3)
(6.1)
(2.3)
(0.9)
1.2
3.6
4.3
5.2
5.6
6.7
7.0
7.1
7.7
8.0
8.2
9.1
9.8
13.1
13.7
20.1
20.3
22.2
23.2
26.3
Source: Monthly Market Summary: December 2023 - Rothschild & Co.
Sri Lanka Equity Market Review
The All Share Price Index (ASPI) and the Standard and Poor's Sri Lanka 20 
(S&P SL20) Index of the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) followed a similar 
trend to global equities in CY2023. Accordingly, as at the end of CY2023, 
the ASPI and S&P SL20 closed at 10,654 and 3,068 points, recording gains 
of 25.5% and 16.4%, respectively. 
The recovery of macroeconomic conditions in Sri Lanka, including 
easing of inflation and declining interest rates contributed to better 
market performance. Overall stability also aided inflow of foreign funds 
and heightened investor sentiment.
Regional Market Performance
Regional Market Performance
(%)
(%)
CY22
Sri Lanka - ASPI
Bangladesh - DSE
China - Shanghai Composite
Hong Kong - HSI
India - NSEI
Japan - TOPIX
Singapore - FTSE
Thailand - SET
Vietnam - FVTT
(50)
(40)
(30)
(20)
(10)
0
10
20
30
CY23
(30.6)
25.5
(8.1)
0.6
(15.5)
(13.8)
(15.1)
(3.7)
5.9
25.1
19.0
(5.1)
4.1
(0.3)
0.7
(15.2)
(44.2)
10.8
The momentum witnessed in CY2023 continued to the fourth quarter of 
the financial year (January – March 2024), primarily driven by domestic 
investor participation. Market dynamics showed a shift in foreign 
investment patterns in the fourth quarter of 2023/24, with total net foreign 
outflows recorded at Rs.7.92 billion during the quarter – a considerable 
portion of this outflow was attributable to one ticker. This resulted in the 
market recording Rs.4.21 billion of net foreign outflows during 2023/24. 
In 2023/24, the overall market capitalisation recorded an increase to 
Rs.4,535 billion from Rs.3,904 billion recorded in the previous year. The 
ASPI closed at 11,444 points up from 9,301 points as at 31 March 2023. 
The average daily turnover declined to Rs.1.58 billion in 2023/24 from 
Rs.2.13 billion in 2022/23. Although the market price to earnings ratio 

125
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
(PER) increased to 9.9 times in 2023/24 [2022/23: 5.0 times], the valuation 
levels are still very attractive. The CSE also facilitated capital raising 
through initial public offerings (IPOs) with Rs.14.82 billion raised through 
three IPOs by the end of 31 March 2024.
The performance of the equity market is envisaged to mirror the overall 
recovery momentum of the economy going forward. The Group remains 
confident in Sri Lanka's growth prospects in the medium to long-term, 
given the significant steps that have been taken to achieve economic 
stability. This growth of the overall economy, together with factors such 
as attractive forward valuation metrics of the market, the lowering of 
interest rates and providing tax free returns on equity, along with recent 
traction in equity markets, should help propel the indices further.
Refer the Outlook and Risk section for a detailed discussion – Page 107
Indices
31 March
Value
2024 
2023
%
MSCI
All Country World Index 
 783.58 
 635.30 
 23 
All Country World Index 
excluding USA
 368.90 
 298.68 
 24 
World (23 Developed markets)
 2,366.97 
 2,791.44 
 (15)
USA
 5,008.17 
 3,904.80 
 28 
Europe
 2,113.34 
 1,902.85 
 11 
Europe, Australasia and Far East
 2,349.41 
 2,092.60 
 12 
Emerging Markets 
 1,043.20 
 990.28 
 5 
Frontier Markets
 530.82 
 483.76 
 10 
Peer
SENSEX
 73,651.35 
 58,991.52 
 25 
JKSE
 7,288.81 
 6,805.28 
 7 
STI
 3,224.01 
 3,258.90 
 (1)
KLSE 
 1,536.07 
 1,429.48 
 7 
Local
ASPI
 11,444.38 
 9,301.09 
 23 
S&P SL20
 3,317.62
 2,682.83 
 24 
JKH Share Performance vs. ASPI
The JKH share increased by 38.6% to Rs.194.00 as at 31 March 2024 from 
Rs.140.00 on 31 March 2023.
Key Regulatory Highlights for the Year
	y
Regulated short selling (RSS) and stock borrowing and lending 
(SBL) was introduced by the CSE with the aim of enhancing 
trading opportunities, promoting market efficiency, liquidity 
and investor confidence, while aligning with international 
standards and practices. This initiative came into effect on 6 
November 2023. Thereafter, in March 2024, the CSE facilitated 
the participation of non-resident investors in SBL and RSS 
transactions, which is carried out in terms of the rules enforced 
by a clearing house licensed under the Securities and Exchange 
Commission (SEC) Act No. 19 of 2021. 
	y
Regulations to facilitate the issuing, listing and trading of 
infrastructure bonds, Shariah compliant debt securities, shares 
of state-owned enterprises, Green bonds and perpetual debt 
securities.
	y
Amendment, restructure and re-titling of Stockbroker Rules 
as trading participant rules and implementation of dispute 
resolution rules. 
	y
Amendments to the Listing Rules of the CSE covering the 
areas of governance, continuous listing requirements and 
enforcements. The rules, which are applicable for listed entities, 
were amended after a period of 16 years. Key changes include:
•	 specification of the minimum number of directors and 
independent directors; 
•	 appointment of a 'Senior Independent Director' in certain 
instances;
•	 establishment of a Nomination and Governance Committee;
•	 alteration to the composition and functions of various 
committees such as Audit and Remuneration;
•	 introduction of a fit and proper criteria for board members 
and chief executive officers (CEOs);
•	 revision of the criteria for independence, and;
•	 added disclosure requirements on governance matters, 
among others.
As illustrated in the graph above, 63,118,576 shares amounting to 4.2% 
of the issued share capital of the Company was recorded as traded on 
7 February 2024. It is noted that this was a result of a book transfer and 
does not represent a change in ultimate beneficial ownership.
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
JKH Share Performance vs. ASPI (indexed)
JKH Share Performance vs. ASPI (indexed)
(Index)
(Index)
No. of shares (million)
No. of shares (million)
JKH shares traded 
Jun-23
May-23
Apr-23
Jul-23
Aug-23 Sep-23
Oct-23
Nov-23
Jan-24
Dec-23
Feb-24
Mar-24
ASPI (indexed) 
JKH (indexed)
0
50
100
150
200

126 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
Market Information of the Ordinary Shares of the Company
 Q4 
 Q3 
 Q2 
 Q1 
2023/24
 2022/23 
Share Information
High (Rs.)
 194.75 
 198.00 
 200.00 
 150.75 
 200.00 
 170.00 
Low (Rs.)
 178.00 
 186.00 
 150.00 
 134.75 
 134.75 
 116.25 
Close (Rs.)
 194.00 
 191.00 
 192.75 
 150.00 
 194.00 
 140.00 
Dividends paid per share (Rs.)
 0.50 
 0.50 
 - 
 0.50 
 1.50 
 2.00 
Trading Statistics
Number of transactions
 6,390 
 8,339 
 17,802 
 5,815 
 38,346 
 36,181 
Number of shares traded ('000)
 90,119 
 43,835 
 84,331 
 47,350 
 265,636 
 184,582 
Value of all shares traded (Rs.million)
 16,550 
 8,430 
 14,935 
 6,665 
 46,580 
 24,805 
Average daily turnover (Rs.million)
 285 
 134 
 249 
 57 
 725 
 105 
Percentage of total market turnover (%)
 20.0 
 12.8 
 8.9 
 11.4 
 12.4 
 5.0 
Market capitalisation (Rs.million)
 290,771 
 265,117 
 267,322 
 207,737 
 290,771 
 193,888 
Percentage of total market capitalisation (%)
 6.4 
 6.2 
 5.9 
 5.3 
 6.4 
 5.0 
JKH High/Low Share prices per Month
JKH High/Low Share Prices per Month
JKH High/Low Share Prices per Month
(Rs.)
(Rs.)
Jul-23
Jun-23
May-23
Apr-23
Aug-23
Sep-23
Oct-23
Nov-23
Dec-23
Jan-24
Feb-24
Mar-24
100
120
140
160
180
200
High
Low
JKH 30-day moving average
JKH Beta
The beta of the JKH share as of 31 March 2024 stood at 0.32. The beta is 
calculated based on the daily JKH share movements against movements 
of the ASPI for the five-year period commencing 1 April 2019 to 28 
March 2024. The compounded annual growth rate (CAGR) of the JKH 
share over the five-year period stood at a 4.6%, compared to that of the 
market which stood at 15.5% for the same period.
Issued Share Capital
The number of shares in issue by the Company increased from 
1,384,916,632 shares as at 31 March 2023 to 1,489,819,707 shares as at 
31 March 2024. This increase was primarily due to the partial conversion 
of the debentures of HWIC Asia Fund to ordinary shares. The Global 
Depository Receipts balance in ordinary share equivalent remained at 
1,320,942 shares as at 31 March 2024 – as morefully outlined alongside, 
the Company terminated the GDRs in November 2023 and the process 
of cancellation is ongoing. 
Partial Conversion of the Convertible Debentures issued to HWIC Asia 
Fund
As detailed in the JKH Annual Report 2022/23, in August 2022, 
the Company issued 208,125,000 LKR denominated debentures 
(Debentures), with a face value of Rs.27.06 billion, to HWIC Asia 
Fund (HWIC), a subsidiary of Fairfax Financial Holdings Limited. The 
Debentures were issued at Rs.130 per Debenture and with the option 
for conversion to ordinary shares in JKH at a ratio of 1:1, based on the 
approval granted by the shareholders at the time. 
In February 2024, HWIC exercised its option to convert 110,000,000 
Debentures, with a face value of Rs.14.30 billion. Accordingly, JKH 
issued and listed 110,000,000 new ordinary shares which increased 
the Company's stated capital by 23.8% from Rs.73.19 billion to Rs.90.60 
billion. This conversion represented a dilution of 7.34% in the Company's 
share structure, based on the new number 1,498,819,707 outstanding 
ordinary shares.
Post this conversion, HWIC has a shareholding of 19.4% in the Company. 
The remaining 98,125,000 Debentures, with a face value of Rs.12.76 
billion are eligible for conversion till 12 August 2025. If converted, the 
total number of JKH shares in issue would increase to 1,596,944,707 
shares, which would result in a further dilution of 6.14%. 
Refer Financial and Manufactured Capital Review section for a detailed 
discussion – Page 51
SHARE INFORMATION
“In February 2024, HWIC exercised its option 
to convert 110,000,000 Debentures, with a 
face value of Rs.14.30 billion. Accordingly, JKH 
issued and listed 110,000,000 new ordinary 
shares which increased the Company's stated 
capital by 23.8% from Rs.73.19 billion to 
Rs.90.60 billion.”

127
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Termination of the Global Depositary Receipts Programmes
In November 2023, the Board of Directors resolved to terminate the 
Regulation S and Rule 144A Global Depositary Receipts Programmes 
(collectively, the 'GDR Programme'), owning to the relatively low number 
of Global Depositary Receipts (GDRs) in issue. Given that they are not 
a significant contributor to facilitating trading in Company securities, 
the termination would not have an impact on the Company (including 
its outstanding share capital) with GDR holders having the option to 
convert to ordinary shares in the Company or monetise the investment 
as outlined below. 
GDR holders will be able to cancel their GDRs up to six months after their 
termination date (until 14 June 2024), with dividends and sale proceeds 
from corporate actions being distributed to those who surrender 
their GDRs before this date. Surrendered GDRs will be converted to 
corresponding shares, necessitating a custodian or brokerage account in 
Sri Lanka. If the GDR holder fails to deliver the shares to the designated 
account in Sri Lanka within three days of 14 June 2024, the GDR holder 
will be entitled to receive cash proceeds. After six months from the 
termination date, unsurrendered GDRs may be sold, with proceeds held 
for the benefit of holders. Upon sale, the depository's obligations cease, 
except for accounting for net proceeds, fees, charges, expenses, and 
taxes in accordance with the deposit agreement. The termination of the 
GDR Programme does not impact the JKH shares in issue.
Dividend 
The Company paid two interim dividends for 2023/24, amounting to 
Rs.0.50 per share, each, in December 2023 and March 2024.
While the macroeconomic environment has stabilised and the outlook 
for the economy looks positive, the Group is conscious of its capital 
commitments in the ensuing year which could result in some impacts 
on operating cash flows considering the final stages of the pipeline of 
strategic investments such as the 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka' integrated 
resort and the WCT-1 project. Accordingly, the final dividend for 2023/24 
was maintained at Rs.0.50 per share. The final dividend is to be paid on 
or before 25 June 2024. The total dividend declared for 2023/24 is Rs.1.50 
per share (2022/23: Rs.2.00 per share).  
The Company dividend payout ratio for 2023/24 is 28% with a total 
dividend outlay of Rs.2.08 billion [2022/23: Rs.2.77 billion]. The Group 
payout ratio was at 18% during the year [2022/23:15%].
The Group will follow its dividend policy which corresponds with 
growth in profits whilst ensuring that the Company maintains adequate 
funds to support business continuity and fund its pipeline of strategic 
investments.
Earnings Per Share
The fully diluted earnings per share (EPS) for the financial year decreased 
by 38.7% to Rs.8.04 per share [2022/23: Rs.13.12] due to the reduction in 
total profit attributable to equity holders as well as the increase in the 
diluted weighted average number of shares stemming from the partial 
conversion of convertible debentures issues to HWIC. On a recurring 
earnings basis, the diluted EPS reduced to Rs.7.30 per share in the current 
financial year from Rs.14.46 per share recorded in the previous financial 
year, thus representing a 49.6% decrease.
Total Shareholder Return
The total shareholder return (TSR) of the JKH share stood at 40.7% for 
the period under review, while the total return index of the S&P SL20 
recorded a return of 27.1%. On a cumulative basis, over a five-year 
holding period, the share inclusive of dividends, posted an annualised 
total return of 34.9%.
Distributions to Shareholders and Payout Ratio
Distributions to Shareholders and Payout Ratio
(Rs.billion)
(Rs.billion)
(%)
(%)
FY20
FY21
FY22
FY23
FY24
0
1
2
3
4
5
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
Dividend paid
Group dividend payout (%)
4.6
49
2.0
41
2.0
10
2.8
15
2.1
18
(30)
(10)
10
30
50
(%)
FY20
FY21
FY22
FY23
FY24
Total Shareholder Return 
30.0
(23.8)
(0.9)
(2.8)
(1.4)
(1.8)
34.9
40.7
(4.1)
Annual TSR
Cumulative TSR
“The Group will follow its dividend policy 
which corresponds with growth in profits 
whilst ensuring that the Company maintains 
adequate funds to support business continuity 
and fund its pipeline of strategic investments.”

128 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
Summary Indicators
 2023/24  2022/23  2021/22 
Market capitalisation 
(Rs.billion)
290.8 
193.9 
201.0 
Enterprise value 
(Rs.billion)
450.0
339.2
312.0 
EV/EBITDA 
(times)
10.0
7.6 
10.7 
Diluted EPS 
(Rs.)
8.0
13.1 
15.1 
Diluted PER
(times)
24.1
10.7 
9.6 
Price to book 
(times)
0.8 
0.6 
0.6 
Price/cash earnings 
(times)
13.2 
7.3
4.7 
Dividend yield 
(%)
0.8 
1.4 
1.0 
Group dividend 
payout ratio 
(%)
18.5 
15.2
10.0
Net assets per share
(Rs.)
238.8 
246.2
224.8 
TSR 
(%)
40.7
(1.4)
(1.8)
Price Earnings Ratio
 2023/24 
 2022/23 
JKH
24.1
10.7
CSE
9.9
5.0
SENSEX
25.2
22.2
KLSE
21.1
16.4
JCI
26.8
11.8
STI
17.8
12.6
Composition of Shareholders
31 March 2024
31 March 2023
Number of 
shareholders
Number of 
shares
%
Number of 
shareholders
Number of 
shares
%
Non-Resident
Institutions
68
628,555,219
42
73
515,773,768
37
Individuals
235
8,224,782
1
250
10,240,144
1
Total Non-Resident
303
636,780,001
42
323
526,013,912
38
Resident
Institutions
660
484,215,442
32
720
477,354,563
34
Individuals*
13,128
377,824,264
25
14,061
381,548,157
28
Total Resident
13,788
862,039,706
58
14,781
858,902,720
62
Total
14,091
1,498,819,707
100
15,104
1,384,916,632
100
*includes directors, spouses and connected parties.
SHARE INFORMATION
0
100
200
300
400
500
Market capitalisation
Enterprise value
(Rs.billion)
FY20
FY21
FY22
FY23
FY24
Market Capitalisation and Enterprise Value
152
186
196
245
201
312 
291
450
194
339
Market Capitalisation and Enterprise Value
The market capitalisation of the Company increased by 50% to  
Rs.290.77 billion as at 31 March 2024 [2022/23: Rs.193.89 billion] driven 
by a rise in the Company share price. As at the financial year end, JKH 
represented 6.4% of the total market capitalisation of the CSE  
[2022/23: 5.0%].
The enterprise value of the Group increased by 32.7% to Rs.450.01 billion 
as at 31 March 2024 [2022/23: Rs.339.23 billion].
As at 31 March 2024, JKH had a float-adjusted market capitalisation of 
Rs.194.00 billion and 14,087 public shareholders. Thus, the Company 
is compliant under option 1 of the minimum threshold requirements 
for the Main Board of the CSE, as per the directive issued in terms of 
Section 13 (c) and 13 (cc) of the SEC Act No.36 of 1987, circulated on 16 
November 2016.

129
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Distribution of Shareholders
31 March 2024
31 March 2023
Number of 
shareholders
%
Number of 
shares held
%
Number of 
shareholders
%
Number of 
shares held
%
Less than or equal to 1,000
9,525
68
1,863,908
0 
10,028
66
2,139,812
0
1,001 to 10,000
3,008
21
10,995,300
1 
3,406
23
12,421,138
1
10,001 to 100,000
1,195
8
36,555,791
2 
1,297
9
40,535,936
3
100,001 to 1,000,000
266
2
79,979,916
5 
267
2
79,734,447
6
Over 1,000,001
97
1
1,369,424,792
91 
106
1
1,250,085,299
90
Total
14,091
100
1,498,819,707
100
15,104
100
1,384,916,632
100
Refer Corporate Governance Commentary section for further details on Options Available to Executive Directors under the Employee Share Option Scheme, Director's 
Shareholding and Executive Director's Shareholding in Group Companies – Pages 223
Top Twenty Shareholders of the Company
31 March 2024
31 March 2023
Number of 
shares
%
Number of 
shares
%
HWIC Asia Fund
291,105,699
19.42 
119,200,760
8.61
Melstacorp PLC
128,917,111
8.60 
128,917,111
9.31
Mr S E Captain
122,615,194
8.18 
134,044,705
9.68
Paints & General Industries Limited
87,021,832
5.81 
100,717,931
7.27
CIC Holdings PLC
85,365,926
5.70 
35,338,032
2.55
Asian Development Bank
65,042,006
4.34 
65,042,006
4.70
Schroder International Selection Fund
44,418,290
2.96 
44,418,290
3.21
Aberdeen Standard Asia Focus PLC
35,038,572
2.34 
33,398,572
2.41
Norges Bank Account 2
33,087,774
2.21 
31,901,605
2.30
Polypak Secco Limited
31,587,170
2.11 
14,937,924
1.08
Mr Kandiah Balendra
19,511,476
1.30 
19,511,476
1.41
Mrs C S De Fonseka
17,606,991
1.17 
17,606,991
1.27
Emrevival Master Fund LP
15,983,048
1.07 
-
-
Mrs S A J De Fonseka
15,254,730
1.02 
15,204,230
1.10
Hostplus Pooled Superannuation Trust
15,152,416
1.01 
10,393,158
0.75
Chemanex PLC
15,064,515
1.01 
13,105,475
0.95
Edgbaston Asian Equity Trust
14,209,110
0.95 
17,520,023
1.27
Employees Trust Fund Board
12,989,299
0.87 
18,499,897
1.34
Sunsuper Superannuation Fund
12,964,947
0.87 
11,587,196
0.84
Mr K N J Balendra
10,907,628
0.73 
10,907,628
0.79
Note: The Company is unable to disclose the ultimate beneficial owners (UBOs) as collating information on UBOs of entities is not possible, given that the country's regulations do not 
require this to be disclosed when purchasing shares on the CSE. 

130 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
Share Capital
Year ended 31 March
Number of shares in 
issue (million)
2012
844.12
2013
857.24
2014
990.29
2015
997.49
2016
1189.4
2017
1,387.47
2018
1,387.53
2019
1,318.17
2020
1,318.55
2021
1,319.66
2022
1,384.92
2023
1,384.92
2024
1,498.82
1 GDR is equivalent to 2 ordinary shares.
* First issued in 1994/95 and subsequently increased along with bonus issues and subdivision of 
shares.
** Terminated in November 2023, cancellations open until 14 June 2024.
Year ended  
31 March
Opening 
balance
Issued*
Converted/ 
repurchased
Closing 
balance**
2012
0.95
0.32
0.08
1.19
2013
1.19
-
0.06
1.13
2014
1.13
-
0.01
1.12
2015
1.12
-
-
1.12
2016
1.12
-
-
1.12
2017
1.12
0.2
-
1.32
2018
1.32
-
-
1.32
2019
1.32
-
-
1.32
2020
1.32
-
-
1.32
2021
1.32
-
-
1.32
2022
1.32
-
-
1.32
2023
1.32
-
-
1.32
2024
1.32
-
-
1.32
GDR History (in terms of ordinary shares, million)
Dividends
Year ended 31 March
DPS* (Rs.)
Dividends 
(Rs.000)
2013
3.50
2,982,421
2014
3.50
3,266,718
2015
3.50
3,475,947
2016
7.00
8,037,790
2017
5.50
7,280,497
2018
6.00
8,324,983
2019
5.00
8,186,450
2020
2.50
4,614,133
2021
2.00
1,978,317
2022
1.50
2,012,193
2023
2.00
2,769,833
2024
1.50
2,080,473
*Dividend declared per share.
History of Scrip Issues, Rights and Repurchases
Year 
ended
31 March
Issue
Basis
Number 
of shares 
(million)
Ex-date
Cash 
inflow/
(outflow) 
(Rs.billion)
2012
Subdivision
4:3
210
2011-06-30
N/A 
2013
Rights @ Rs.175*
2:13
132
2013-10-03
23.1
2016
Subdivision
7:8
143
2015-06-30
N/A 
2017
Subdivision
7:8
170
2016-06-30
N/A 
2019
Repurchase @ 
Rs.160
1:20
69
2019-01-11
(11.1)
2022
Private Placement
N/A 
65
2022-01-21
10
2024
Convertible 
Debenture 
Conversion
1:1
110
2024-02-29
N/A 
* Unadjusted prices.
SHARE INFORMATION

131
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Employee Share Option Plan as at 31 March 2024
Date of 
grant
Employee 
category
Shares 
granted
Expiry 
date
Option 
grant 
price (Rs.)
Shares 
adjusted2
Exercised
Cancelled2
Expired
Outstanding
Due to 
resignations
Due to 
performance
Total
Vested
Unvested
End/
current 
price2 (Rs.)
PLAN 9
22.06.2018
10,381,395
21.06.2023
 154.10 
10,381,395
27,798
1,607,680
211,417
8,534,500
-
 154.10 
Award 3 
GEC1
2,615,000
3,110,000
-
-
 3,110,000 
-
Other 
Executives
7,766,395
7,271,395
27,798
1,607,680
211,417
5,424,500
-
PLAN 10
01.07.2019
6,568,000
30.06.2024
 136.97 
6,568,000
2,718,400
499,000
135,500
3,215,100
3,215,100
-
 136.97 
Award 13
GEC1
2,460,000
2,825,000
 1,105,000 
-
-
1,720,000
1,720,000
-
Other 
Executives
4,108,000
3,743,000
1,613,400
499,000
135,500
1,495,100
1,495,100
-
PLAN 10
19.10.2020
6,557,100
30.06.2025
 132.86 
6,557,100
822,900
435,200
7,500
5,291,500
3,945,550
1,345,950
 132.86 
Award 24
GEC1
2,230,000
2,710,000
97,500
-
-
2,612,500
2,022,500
590,000
Other 
Executives
4,327,100
3,847,100
725,400
435,200
7,500
2,679,000
1,923,050
755,950
PLAN 10
16.08.2021
6,585,800
30.06.2026
 136.64 
6,585,800
257,675
439,800
12,925
5,875,400
3,066,450
2,808,950
 136.64 
Award 35
GEC1
2,205,000
2,545,000
-
-
2,545,000
1,272,500
1,272,500
Other 
Executives
4,380,800
4,040,800
257,675
439,800
12,925
3,330,400
1,793,950
1,536,450
PLAN 11
26.07.2022
6,906,600
30.06.2027
 121.91 
6,906,600
253,375
368,000
8,750
6,276,475
1,538,700
4,737,775
 121.91 
Award 16
GEC1
2,115,000
2,622,000
-
-
2,622,000
655,500
1,966,500
Other 
Executives
4,791,600
4,284,600
253,375
368,000
8,750
3,654,475
883,200
2,771,275
PLAN 11
Award 27
26.01.2023
1,369,700
25.01.2028
 137.86 
1,369,700
18,900
39,200
-
1,311,600
318,525
993,075
 137.86 
Other 
Executives
1,369,700
1,369,700
18,900
39,200
-
1,311,600
318,525
993,075
PLAN 11
12.07.2023
5,535,665
30.06.2028
 145.59 
5,535,665
-
108,100
0
5,427,565
-
5,427,565
 145.59 
GEC1
2,183,200
2,183,200
-
0
2,183,200
2,183,200
Award 2.18
Other 
Executives
3,352,465
3,352,465
108,100
3,244,365
3,244,365
Total
43,904,260
4,099,048
3,496,980
376,092
8,534,500
27,397,640
12,084,325
15,313,315
1	 GEC comprises of the Executive Directors and Presidents
2	 Adjusted for Bonus Issues/Right Issues/Sub-divisions
3	 Plan 10 (Award 1) - 100% of the options had vested as at 31 March 2024
4	 Plan 10 (Award 2) - 75% of the options had vested as at 31 March 2024
5	 Plan 10 (Award 3) - 50% of the options had vested as at 31 March 2024
6	 Plan 11 (Award 1) - 25% of the options had vested as at 31 March 2024
7	 Plan 11 (Award 2) - 25% of the options had vested as at 31 March 2024
8	 Plan 11 (Award 2.1) - None of the options had vested as at 31 March 2024 with the exception of retirees

132 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
2023/24 Financial Calendar
Date
Three months ended 30 June 2023
25 July 2023
Six months ended 30 September 2023 
7 November 2023
First interim dividend paid on
6 December 2023
Nine months ended 31 December 2023         
31 January 2024
Second interim dividend paid on
4 March 2024
Annual Report 2023/24
21 May 2024
Final dividend proposed to be paid on
25 June 2024
45th Annual General Meeting
28 June 2024
2024/25 Financial Calendar
Date
Three months ended 30 June 2024
 On or before 30 July 2024
Six months ended 30 September 2024
On or before 5 November 2024
Nine months ended 31 December 2024
On or before 31 January 2025
Annual Report 2024/25
On or before 30 May 2025
46th Annual General Meeting
On or before 30 June 2025
SHARE INFORMATION

133
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
135  Transportation    145  Consumer Foods    156  Retail    166  Leisure    182  Property 
189  Financial Services    197  Other, including Information Technology and Plantation Services
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION 
AND ANALYSIS
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
A  milestone in Life

134 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
The Industry Group Review of the Management 
Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) section consists of  
the following sections.
3-year KPIs
Presents the Key Performance Indicators of the industry group over the past three years, under 
each form of Capital, as applicable, to illustrate the progression or deterioration of their value.
External Environment and Operational Review
Explores the key external environmental variables specific to the industry group, delving into their 
direct influence on the industry group's operational dynamics during the year.
Financial Performance Review
Entails a comprehensive discussion on the financial performances of the industry group, with 
particular emphasis on the performance and capital structure.
Outlook and Risks
Highlights the key risks, opportunities and trends applicable for the industry. Also, entails a 
discussion on the industry group's strategy for navigating through the challenges arising from 
operating environment, as well as the future trajectory of the industry group.

Contribution to the John Keells Group
22%
25%
4%
7%
Revenue
EBIT
Capital Employed
Carbon Footprint
Ports and Shipping 
	y
Operation of a container terminal at the Port of 
Colombo as a public-private partnership on a build, 
operate and transfer basis through South Asia 
Gateway Terminals (SAGT).
	y
Development of a container terminal for operation at 
the Port of Colombo as a public-private partnership 
on a build, operate and transfer basis through the 
West Container Terminal (WCT-1). 
	y
Associate stake in Maersk Lanka, the agents in Sri 
Lanka and the Maldives for the Maersk Line. 
	y
Shipping agency and maritime services through 
Inchcape Mackinnon Mackenzie Shipping (Private) 
Limited (IMMS), a joint venture with Inchcape 
Shipping Services. 
Transportation 
	y
Marine bunkering and related services under Lanka 
Marine Services (LMS).
	y
Third party logistics (3PL), warehousing and trucking 
through John Keells Logistics (JKLL).
	y
DHL air express in Sri Lanka, a joint venture with 
Deutsche Post.
	y
Representation of multiple on-line and off-line 
airlines as general sales agents through Mack Air 
(MAL) in Sri Lanka. 
	y
Travel agency and travel-related services through 
Mackinnons Travel (MTL).
	y
Domestic scheduled and charter flight operations 
under the brand, 'Cinnamon Air'.
	y
Freight forwarding and customs brokerage through 
Mack International Freight (MIF).
TRANSPORTATION
2023/24
2022/23
2021/22
Operational Highlights
SAGT volumes
TEUs '000s
 1,818 
 1,704 
 1,831 
Domestic:Transshipment volume mix
 10:90 
 13:87 
 14:86 
Port of Colombo volumes 
TEUs '000s
 7,339 
 6,632 
 7,351 
LMS volume growth
%
 2 
 8 
7
Warehouse space under management (sq.ft. '000)
 370 
 317 
 337 
Financial and Manufactured Capital
Revenue 1
Rs.million
 68,916 
 94,281 
 43,816 
EBITDA
Rs.million
 8,773 
 10,631 
 843 
PBT
Rs.million
 7,604 
 9,570 
 1,015 
PAT
Rs.million
 7,470 
 9,010 
 733 
Total assets
Rs.million
 31,280 
 30,790 
 38,621 
Total equity
Rs.million
 16,260 
 17,891 
 18,962 
Total debt ²
Rs.million
 6,808 
 8,610 
 12,680 
Capital employed ³
Rs.million
 23,413 
 27,074 
 31,751 
Natural Capital
Energy consumption 
kWh
 652,529 
 546,142  1,074,269 
Energy consumption per operational 
intensity factor
kWh per 
Rs.million
12.66
7.33
33.00
Carbon footprint
MT
 7,761.40 
 4,846.00 
 4,450.79 
Carbon footprint per operational 
intensity factor
MT per 
Rs.million
0.15
0.07
0.14
Water withdrawal
m3
 22,602.36  15,093.96  12,318.59 
Water withdrawal per operational 
intensity factor
m3 per 
Rs.million
0.44
0.20
0.38
Volume of hazardous waste generated kg
 83,250.00  56,033.25  58,330.00 
Volume of non hazardous waste 
generated
kg
 103,507.60  50,607.00  128,685.95 
Waste generated per operational 
intensity factor
kg per 
Rs.million
3.62
1.43
5.75
Human Capital
Total Workforce (employees and 
contractors' staff)
No.
630
535
574
EBIT per employee 
Rs.million
15 
22
1
Average training per employee
hours
20.95
49.30
13.07
Total Attrition
%
42.3
54.1
68.6
Females employee
%
20.2
19.3
15.9
Total injuries
No.
1
3
0
Social and Relationship Capital
Community Services and Infrastructure 
Projects 4
Rs.'000
 11,075
 12,051 
 5,317 
1.	 Revenue is inclusive of the Group's share of equity accounted investees.
2.	 Excludes lease liabilities.
3.	 For equity accounted investees, capital employed is representative of the Group's equity investment in 
these companies. This is inclusive of lease liabilities.
4.	 Only the contribution to John Keells Foundation.
135
135
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information

136 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
TRANSPORTATION
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
External Environment and Operational Review
Macroeconomic Update
	y
Global trade of goods and services witnessed a contraction of 
5% in CY2023 compared to a growth of 12% in CY2022. This was 
primarily due to decreased demand in developed nations, the 
underperformance of the East Asian economies and a decrease 
in commodity prices, which collectively contributed to a notable 
contraction in the trade of goods (United Nations Conference 
on Trade and Development (UNCTAD)).  
	y
Merchandise trade stood at USD 24 trillion, a 5% decrease 
against the previous year with merchandise trade volumes of 
both exports and imports contracting as per UNCTAD.
	y
From the end of CY2023, global maritime trade flows were 
marked by major disruptions as ships entering the Gulf of Aden 
and sailing through the Red Sea and the Suez Canal faced 
attacks by Yemen-based Houthis. The security threats in the Red 
Sea have caused a significant redirection of ship arrivals and 
transits through the Cape of Good Hope. 
For a detailed discussion, refer the Outlook section of the report on 
page 107.
Key Policy and Regulatory Highlights 
	y
The value added tax (VAT) rate was increased from 15% to 18%, 
with effect from 1 January 2024.
	y
In 2023/24, the Sri Lankan Government appointed a policy 
committee to draw up a framework beyond protectionism 
to boost the shipping and logistics services and attract new 
investments. The committee is currently developing a logistics 
service development programme for Sri Lanka in line with 
international best practice.
Macroeconomic Update - Ports and Shipping
	y
The Port of Colombo (POC) handled 7.3 million twenty-foot 
equivalent units (TEUs) in 2023/24, an 11% increase in TEUs 
handled against the previous year [2022/23: decrease of 10%].  
All terminals of the POC recorded an increase in container 
handling volumes. 
•	 Domestic TEU volumes increased by 11% during 2023/24 
[2022/23: degrowth of 22%] and Transshipment volumes 
increased by 10% in 2023/24 [2022/23: degrowth of 7%]. 
•	 Domestic: transshipment mix stood at 14:86 for 2023/24 
[2022/23: 14:86].
•	 Overall POC capacity utilisation was ~86% for 2023/24 
[2022/23: ~78%].
	y
Capacity enhancements at the POC: 
•	 Construction work of the West Container Terminal (WCT-1) 
at the Colombo Port continued during CY2023 and the first 
phase of the project is set to be completed by the fourth 
quarter of 2024/25.
•	 The construction of the second phase of East Container 
Terminal (ECT) continued during CY2023. Extending across 75 
hectares and a quay length of 1,320 meters and featuring 12 
gantry cranes and 40-yard cranes, second phase is expected 
to be completed by end CY 2025.
Refer the Ports and Shipping section for a detailed discussion on WCT-1.
•	 Upon the completion of both terminals, the estimated annual 
capacity of the POC is expected to enhance by ~6 – 6.5 million 
TEUs.
Ports and Shipping 
South Asia Gateway Terminal 
During the year under review, the Group's Ports and Shipping business, 
SAGT, recorded a 7% increase in TEUs to 1.82 million TEUs [2022/23: 1.70 
million TEUs], in line with the volume increase of 11% recorded at the 
POC. The volume increase was mainly driven by transshipment volumes. 
Volume growth at the POC and SAGT was very strong during the fourth 
quarter of the year given the higher vessel movement through the POC 
on account of the Red Sea crisis.    
INSIGHTS
	y
Volumes in the first quarter recorded a 1% increase in 
comparison to the same quarter of the previous year, driven 
by an increase in transshipment volumes. Domestic volumes 
recorded a decline due to the import restrictions which were  
in place. 
	y
During the second quarter, SAGT witnessed a 10% improvement 
in overall volumes surpassing the volume growth at the POC of 
8%, driven by a growth in transshipment volumes. 
	y
Volumes noted a 3% increase in the third quarter primarily due 
to a growth in transshipment volumes by 5%. 
	y
As a result of the geopolitical conflict in the Red Sea, SAGT 
recorded a 13% increase in volumes in the fourth quarter. The 
increase in volumes was driven by transshipment volumes. 
Q1
FY23: 13:87
FY24: 10:90
Q2
FY23: 12:88
FY24: 10:90
Q3
FY23: 13:87
FY24: 11:89
Domestic:Transshipment volumes
Q4
FY23: 13:87
FY24: 10:90
SAGT Volumes
SAGT Volumes
('000 TEUs)
('000 TEUs)
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
FY21
FY22
FY23
FY24

137
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
	y
'Best Practices in Sustainability' award for the second consecutive 
year at the Maritime SheEO Conference 2023.
	y
'Best Corporate Citizen' and Certificate of Merit in the Project 
Awards Category at the Sustainability Awards 2023 of the Ceylon 
Chamber of Commerce. 
AWARDS
Whilst SAGT recorded a strong volume growth for the year, profitability 
was impacted due to a change in the volume mix as a result of a decline in 
domestic import volumes, while ancillary revenues declined from the peak 
levels witnessed last year. Further, performance was also affected by the 
translation impact stemming from the appreciation of the Sri Lankan Rupee 
by ~11% on average, both in terms of revenue and costs.
It should be noted that SAGT recognised a one-off deferred tax credit 
amounting to Rs.1.20 billion in 2023/24 whilst 2022/23 recorded a one-
off deferred tax charge amounting to Rs.1.35 billion on account of the 
significant change in income tax rates, as the share of results of equity 
accounted investees are consolidated net of all related taxes. 
During the year under review, SAGT updated its terminal operating system 
to improve functionality resulting in greater optimisation of gate and yard 
operations. SAGT also introduced a digital safety management system which 
provides one centralised location to record and report all safety-related tasks 
within the organisation such as incident reporting and risk assessments.
SAGT is in the process of gate automation which will enable greater 
efficiency and improve truck turnaround times. In addition, it will 
eliminate the risk to staff who presently carry out physical inspections 
of containers. Additionally, SAGT plans to install optical character 
recognition (OCR) scanners at the quayside and gates. OCR technology 
will allow containers to be scanned when entering or leaving the 
terminal as well as identify and record the exterior condition of 
containers and the seal's presence and condition.
Colombo West International Terminal
The construction work on the WCT-1 at the POC is progressing well, with all 
work relating to the first phase of the project (800 metres of quay length) 
being awarded. The first batch of quay and yard cranes is expected to arrive 
in August 2024, following which the commissioning and automation is 
expected to be completed by the third quarter of 2024/25. The first phase of 
the terminal is slated to be operational in the fourth quarter of 2024/25. The 
WCT-1, which has a lease period of 35 years, is a deep-water terminal with a 
quay length of 1,400 meters, an alongside depth of 20 meters and an annual 
handling capacity of ~3.2 million TEUs. The quay length of 800 metres in 
Phase 1 facilitates the servicing of two large vessels concurrently, which will 
enable a higher throughput once Phase 1 is operational. The remainder of 
the terminal is expected to be completed in mid-2026. 
Structure 
	y Build, operate and transfer 
(BOT) 
	y Lease period – 35 years
Completion timelines  
	y Phase 1 (800m) –  
Q4 2024/25
	y Phase 2 (600m) –  
mid-2026
Shareholding 
	y Adani Ports & Special 
Economic Zone - 51%
	y John Keells Holdings - 34% 
	y Sri Lanka Ports Authority 
- 15%
Features 
	y Deep-water terminal with 
a quay length of 1,400 
meters, an alongside 
depth of 20 meters
	y Handling capacity of  
~3.2 million TEUs
Progression of the construction work at the West Container Terminal (WCT-1).
SAGT is in the process of gate automation which will enable greater efficiency and 
improve truck turnaround times
Inchcape Mackinnon Mackenzie Shipping
IMMS experienced a challenging year of operations as the overall port 
agency industry in Sri Lanka witnessed a contraction. This was due to 
macroeconomic challenges, such as foreign exchange constraints faced 
during the first half of the year, which negatively impacted the 'Cash 
to Master' business which was temporarily suspended and has since 
recommenced as constraints eased during the second half of the year. 
Additionally, safety concerns and travel advisories resulted in reduced 
vessels calling for services. However, a slight improvement in volumes 
was witnessed during the fourth quarter of the year as a result of the Red 
Sea conflict.
Despite the macroeconomic challenges the business successfully 
remained amongst the top ten shipping agencies in the industry.
Maersk Lanka
Maersk continued to secure its position as one of the largest shipping 
lines calling the POC. However, in line with the trends in the industry, 
Maersk witnessed a decline in both export and import volumes during 
the year under review. Export volumes decreased primarily due to the 
reduction in apparel exports from Sri Lanka as the global demand for 
apparel contracted. Import volumes were affected during the first half of 
the year due to the import restrictions.

138 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
	y
Second Place – 'Main Liner award for liner operations in Sri Lanka' 
at the Sri Lanka Ports Authority (SLPA) awards.
AWARDS
Macroeconomic Update - Bunkering
	y
The prices of Brent oil were highly volatile during the financial 
year, with prices peaking to a high as USD 95 per barrel and a 
low as USD 72 per barrel. 
	y
Due to geopolitical tensions in the Red Sea, many vessels opted 
to sail via the Cape of Good Hope, due to which a significant 
increase in bunker volumes was witnessed in the fourth quarter 
of the financial year.
Bunkering 
The Bunkering business of the Group, Lanka Marine Services (LMS) 
recorded an encouraging performance during the year driven by an 
increase in volumes. It should be noted that in the previous year, LMS 
recorded a substantial increase in profitability in its core ship bunkering 
operations driven by higher margins on account of the significant 
increase in global fuel oil prices. 
Whilst LMS recorded a volume growth of 2% in comparison to the 
previous financial year [2022/23: 8% growth], the first three quarters of 
the previous financial year included local fuel sales as licensed bunkering 
businesses were permitted to import and supply fuels to local industries. 
The temporary approval granted by the Government of Sri Lanka 
to licensed bunkering businesses, including LMS for importing and 
supplying fuels to local industries was ceased in June 2023. This cessation 
was due to the normalisation of domestic fuel supply in the country. 
INSIGHTS
	y
During the first two quarters of the year under review, LMS 
experienced a reduction in volume, with total volumes excluding 
local fuel sales declining by 19% and 11%, respectively. This was 
primarily due to increased competition from Indian ports which 
impacted LMS as well. 
	y
During the third and fourth quarters of the year, the price 
difference with Indian ports narrowed, positively, impacting the 
volumes of the business. Further, the volumes excluding local 
fuel sales in the third quarter improved by 10% and the fourth 
quarter volumes increased significantly by 61% due to the Red 
Sea crisis.
TRANSPORTATION
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
Excluding the local fuel sales, LMS recorded a volume growth of 10% 
for the year under review. The volume growth was driven by the 
significantly higher volumes of 52% recorded in the fourth quarter, given 
the increase in vessels calling the territorial waters of Sri Lanka to procure 
bunker fuel due to the Red Sea crisis.
The volatility of base oil prices during the first half of the year adversely 
impacted margins of the business. It should be noted that during the 
first half of 2022/23, due to the significant increase in global fuel oil 
prices, the business recorded significantly higher margins. 
Amidst competition from other suppliers in the bunkering market, LMS 
undertook measures to determine the optimal cargo parcel sizes for 
import purposes in order to mitigate exposure on stock costs and ullage 
issues. LMS continued to retain its market leadership position both in the 
West Coast and the Sri Lankan market.
During the year the business recommenced supplying high sulphur fuel oil 
(HSFO) to customers. Given, the fact that there is a sizable vessel population 
fitted with scrubbers, the business envisages an increase in demand for 
this product. Further, LMS onboarded a new lubricant principal during the 
year and carried out several initiatives to promote marine lubricant supplies 
collaboratively with their principals within the ports of Sri Lanka.
“Lanka Marine Services recorded an encouraging 
performance during the year driven by an 
increase in volumes. Excluding the local fuel 
sales, LMS recorded a volume growth of 10% for 
the year under review.”
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
LMS Volumes
LMS Volumes
(Index: FY21 Q1 = 100)
(Index: FY21 Q1 = 100)
0
50
100
150
200
250
FY21
FY22
FY23
FY24
LMS continued to retain its market leadership position both in the West Coast and the 
Sri Lankan market.

139
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Logistics 
The logistics arm of the Group, John Keells Logistics (JKLL) continued 
to consolidate its warehouse spaces leading to existing warehouses 
operating at 79% capacity by the end of the financial year. Despite the 
challenging market conditions, the business successfully onboarded 
multiple new customers during the year, to optimise warehouse utilisation. 
In addition, JKLL explored new ventures in managing operations in 
customer locations and introduced new fleet management operations, 
contributing to revenue growth in the fourth quarter of the financial year. 
JKLL's third party logistics (3PL) business introduced lithium-ion powered 
reach trucks, the first of its kind in Sri Lanka, leveraging energy-saving 
technology to reduce operational costs.  
The business continued its digitisation efforts to optimise the logistics 
value chain through enhancements to the warehouse management 
system (WMS) and the newly upgraded transport management system 
(TMS), and real-time key performance indicator (KPI) monitoring systems, 
such as detailed dashboards, ensuring a customer-centric approach 
while also focusing on cost saving measures.
	y
Received the following awards from 'Great Place To Work' (GPTW): 
•	 Certified as a Great Place To Work in the small enterprises category.
•	 Top 15 millennial friendly workplaces in Sri Lanka.
	y
Winner of the National Award of Excellence for the best supply 
chain practicing organisation (medium scale) awarded by the 
Institute of Supplies and Materials Management of Sri Lanka.
AWARDS
JKLL continued to consolidate its warehouse spaces.
DHL Keells 
During the year under review, DHL continued to maintain its market 
leadership position primarily focusing on offering competitive pricing 
options, customer retention and business expansion strategies. DHL 
successfully carried out a series of digitisation projects, including 
human resources, operations, finance and information technology 
(IT) functions, aimed to streamline operational processes, improve 
transparency, and enhance productivity by eliminating manual work. 
Additionally, the implementation of the regional-guided 3D framework 
which covers security and design concepts. The introduction of the new 
way of working (NWOW) platform facilitated the migration of all DHL 
users to the 'M365' platform, enabling users to adopt new features and 
capabilities efficiently. In line with the Personal Data Protection Act  
No. 09 of 2022, DHL introduced the data protection framework to ensure 
the safe storage of personal data of employees and customers.
	y
Received the following awards from 'Great Place To Work' (GPTW): 
•	 Certified as a Great Place To Work in the small enterprises 
category.
•	 Top 15 millennial friendly workplaces in Sri Lanka.
•	 Recognised as one of the 'Top 40 Best Work Places' for the 9th 
consecutive time.
AWARDS
Macroeconomic Update - Airlines
	y
In CY2023, the performance of the aviation sector improved 
with the steady increase of global travel activity with passenger 
numbers rebounding strongly close to pre Covid-19 levels.
	y
42 international airlines and 3 domestic airlines were in 
operation in the country as at the end of 2023/24. 
For a detailed discussion, refer the Outlook section of the report on 
page 107.
Airlines and Other 
Businesses within the Airline segment witnessed an encouraging 
performance with the steady increase in tourist arrivals. 
'Cinnamon Air' witnessed a rebound in operational performance within 
the high-end customer segment, driven by increased contribution from 
local corporates and high net worth individuals. During the year, the 
airline marked the highest number of charter flights since the inception 
of operations in CY2013. Following a challenging period spanning 
across four consecutive years, characterised by the Easter Sunday terror 
attacks, the pandemic and the domestic macroeconomic crisis, the 
airline re-commenced scheduled service operations from 1 April 2023. 
The business witnessed a gradual recovery in scheduled services during 
the fourth quarter of the financial year due to the steady recovery in the 
upscale tourist segments. 
The performance of MAL witnessed a positive boost due to increase in 
frequency of AirAsia (Malaysia) from 4 to 11 flights per week, strong load 
factors and commencement of Thai AirAsia (Bangkok) from October 2023.  
The business continued to focus on new customer segments such as 
labour, migrant and student demographics, given the shift in demand. 
MTL ended the year with a strong performance. The gradual increase 
in demand for air travel witnessed across both the corporate and retail 
sectors together with improving yields assisted the businesses during 
the year. All business units within the company grew. The company 
has undertaken many initiatives during the year to enhance customer 
experience. 

140 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
Financial Performance Review
Income Statement Indicators 
Rs.million
2023/24
2022/23
%
Revenue*
Transportation 
54,763
         78,189 
(30)
Ports and Shipping
14,153 
         16,092 
(12)
Total
         68,916 
         94,281 
(27)
*Including share of revenue of equity accounted investees.
Transportation
	y
The decrease in revenue stemmed from the Group's Bunkering 
business, Lanka Marine Services (LMS). LMS recorded higher revenue 
in the previous year driven by the significant increase in global fuel oil 
prices and growth in volumes. 
	y
The Bunkering business accounts for ~95% of revenue within the 
industry group, excluding equity accounted investees. 
	y
Mackinnons Travels Limited (MTL) recorded a growth in revenue on 
account of higher airline frequencies operating in to Sri Lanka, which 
facilitated more travel and increased capacity.
	y
Mack Air Limited (MAL) also witnessed an increase in revenue due to 
increase in flight frequencies and the commencement of Thai AirAsia 
online operations. 
Ports and Shipping 
	y
The decrease in revenue in the Ports and Shipping sector is mainly 
attributable to SAGT. Despite the growth in volumes, revenue of 
SAGT was impacted by the translation impact on the US Dollar 
denominated revenue streams due to the appreciation of the Rupee, 
while ancillary revenue declined from the peak levels witnessed 
during the previous year.
	y
Maersk recorded a 12% decline in revenue as a result of the decrease 
in imports and exports, as outlined in the Operational Review.
	y
IMMS recorded a 40% decline in revenue due to the contraction of 
the port agency industry in Sri Lanka during the year. 
Rs.million
2023/24
2022/23
%
EBITDA*
Transportation 
3,074
       5,403 
(43)
Ports and Shipping
       5,699 
       5,228 
9
Total
8,773
     10,631 
(17)
PBT**
Transportation 
1,905
         4,342 
(56)
Ports and Shipping
         5,699 
         5,228 
9
Total 
7,604
         9,570 
(21)
*EBITDA includes interest income and the share of results of equity accounted investees 
which is based on the share of profit after tax but excludes all impacts from foreign 
currency exchange gains and losses (other than for equity accounted investees), to 
demonstrate the underlying cash operational performance of businesses.
**Share of results of equity accounted investees are shown net of all taxes but includes 
impacts from foreign currency exchange gains and losses.
Transportation
	y
LMS recorded a decline in EBITDA and PBT in line with the decline in 
revenue. 
Ports and Shipping 
	y
The decrease in EBITDA was due to the decline in revenue at SAGT 
and the mix change in volumes due to a decline in domestic import 
volumes.  
	y
It should be noted that during the year 2023/24, SAGT recognised 
a one-off deferred tax credit amounting to Rs.1.20 billion whilst 
2022/23 recorded a one-off deferred tax charge amounting to Rs.1.35 
billion on account of the significant change in income tax rates, as 
the share of results of equity accounted investees are consolidated 
net of all related taxes.  
	y
Maersk recorded a 24% decline in EBITDA in line with the decline in 
revenue.
The recurring adjustments for 2023/24 entailed one-off impacts from 
performance related initiatives, as articulated in detail in the Financial 
and Manufactured Capital Review. Similarly, the comparative year also 
entailed various one-off impacts, which have been adjusted in order to 
ensure a like-with-like comparison.
The recurring EBITDA of the industry group, post adjusting for the  
one-off impacts, stood at Rs.7.57 billion, a 23% decrease against the 
previous year [2022/23: Rs.11.96 billion].
Balance Sheet Indicators
Rs.million
2023/24
2022/23
%
Debt*
Transportation 
6,808                  8,610 
(20)
Ports and Shipping
                        -                           -   
-
Total
6,808                  8,610 
(20)
*Excludes lease liabilities.
	y
The decrease in debt of the industry group is mainly attributable to a 
reduction in borrowings at LMS. 
	y
Lease liabilities as at 31 March 2024 stood at Rs.345 million, a 40% 
decrease compared to the previous year [2022/23: Rs.573 million], 
driven mainly by JKLL. Total debt including leases stood at Rs.7.15 
billion as at 31 March 2024, a 21% decrease against the previous year 
[2022/23: Rs.9.18 billion].
Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) Analysis
ROCE
(%)
=
EBIT 
margin 
(%)
x
Asset 
turnover
x
Capital 
structure 
leverage
2023/24
33.6
12.3
2.22
1.23
2022/23 
35.2
11.0
2.72
1.18
	y
The decrease in the ROCE of the Transportation industry group is 
attributable mainly to the decrease in revenue and EBIT at LMS.
TRANSPORTATION
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
TRANSPORTATION
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW

141
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Outlook and Risks
The performance of the Transportation industry group is expected to be 
a key driver of the Group's performance in the immediate-term given its 
direct and indirect exposures to foreign currency denominated income 
streams. The performance of the industry group is closely intertwined 
with developments globally. 
Sri Lanka stands to benefit significantly from the improvement in global 
trade in the medium to long run, supported by economic recovery, 
increased consumption, and infrastructure investments. This is especially 
advantageous for the country due to its strategic positioning along 
crucial shipping routes.
Key risks, trends and opportunities relevant to the industry group:
	y
Growth in regional trade, particularly India
	y
Digitalisation and automation
	y
E-commerce growth
	y
Demand for sustainable logistical solutions
	y
Development of port and airport infrastructure
	y
Collaborative logistics networks
	y
Alternate fuels
	y
Emerging markets
	y
Increase in tourism 
	y
Increase in domestic imports and exports
	y
Integration of AI into warehousing facilities
	y
Macroeconomic and political environment*
•	 Changes in regulatory environment*
•	 Volatility in fuel prices 
	y
Supply chain disruptions*
•	 Trade fragmentation
•	 Potential increase in input costs stemming from geopolitical 
tensions and global and domestic developments
•	 Limited availability of bonded tank space for bunker fuel
	y
Financial exposure*, in particular exchange rate volatility
	y
Global competitiveness* and evolving consumer preferences
	y
Human resources and talent management*
	y
Climate risks*
	y
Environment and health & safety*
	y
Information technology*
	y
Reputation and brand image*
Trends and Opportunities
Risks
*Identified as a risk across the Group through the Group's Enterprise Risk Management 
framework. Refer Key Risks section under Outlook and Risks for a detailed discussion. 
Immediate to Short-Term
The World Trade Organisation (WTO) projects world merchandise trade 
volume growth to rebound to 2.6% in CY2024 and 3.3% in CY2025, 
following a larger than expected contraction of 1.2% in CY2023. The 
lingering effects of high energy prices and inflation weighed especially 
heavily on demand for trade-intensive manufactured goods in CY2023, 
but this is envisaged to recover gradually over the next two years with 
the ease in inflationary pressures and improvements in real household 
income. Downside risks to the forecasts include geopolitical tensions, 
policy uncertainty and rising protectionism. The Red Sea crisis has 
resulted in the diversion of shipments between Europe and Asia and the 
prolonged impacts of this crisis may lead to severe stress on the global 
economy and reignite global inflationary pressures. This coupled with 
tensions elsewhere could lead to trade fragmentation.
The Red Sea crisis also had an impact on freight rates, reversing the 
downward trend witnessed in most parts of CY2023. Although rate 
pressures have eased since its peak in January 2024, rates remain elevated 
in contrast to historical averages. However, freight rates, particularly on 
Asian outbound lanes, may increase with major carriers announcing 
significant rate hikes due to increased demand and load factors.
World merchandise trade volume and GDP growth 2018-2025
(%)
Maritime freight costs during the 2021 Suez Canal grounding and the  
2023-2024 Red Sea crisis
(Indices of US$)
Merchandise trade volume growth
Average trade growth 2010-2022
Real GDP growth at market exchange rates
Average GDP growth 2010-2022
10.0
8.0
6.0
4.0
2.0
0.0
(2.0)
(4.0)
(6.0)
CY18
3.2 3.3
0.4
2.6
9.6
6.2
3.0 3.1
2.7
2.7
2.6 2.6
3.3
(1.2)
(5.0)
(3.1)
CY19
CY20
CY21
CY22
CY23
CY24
CY25
Note: Figures for 2024 and 2025 are projections. Merchandise trade grew 2.5% per year 
on average between 2010 and 2023 while GDP growth averaged 2.7%.
Source: WTO for merchandise trade volume and consensus estimates for GDP
Note: The figures display the average monthly freight spot rates for 40-foot containers, 
bulk dry, dirty tanker (e.g., crude oil) and clean tanker (e.g., gasoline). Month zero 
corresponds to March 2021 for the Ever Given grounding and November 2023 for the 
first attack on commercial shipping in the Red Sea.
Source: WTO Global Trade Outlook and Statistics - April 2024
Container freight cost index
Dry bulk freight cost index
9,000
7,000
5,000
3,000
1,000
3,500
3,000
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
(6)
(6)
(5)
(5)
(4)
(4)
(3)
(3)
(2)
(2)
(1)
(1)
Month
March 2021 Suez Canal Grounding
2023-2024 Red Sea Crisis
Month
0
0
1
1
2
2
3
3
4
4

142 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
2023/24 was marked with significant volatility in global oil prices. The 
US Energy Information Administration is of the view that oil prices will 
witness a decline in CY2024 and CY2025, which will aid in containing 
global inflationary pressures.
The Suez Canal Crisis 
	y
Serves as a key maritime route for international trade with ~12% 
of global trade passing through the canal as per UNWTO.
	y
Since November 2023, attacks on commercial ships in the Red 
Sea and Gulf of Aden have continued to disrupt trade flows.
	y
Rerouting through the Cape of Good Hope has had a 
considerable impact on shipping delays due to reasons such as 
longer voyage distances, congestion in ports for discharging/
loading operations and bunkering operations, particularly in the 
Asia-Europe route. As illustrated by the image below, rerouting 
through the Cape of Good Hope has lead to ~8-10 days longer 
voyage in the Asia-Europe route, covering an additional 3,000 
nautical miles in distance.
Ports and Shipping
	y
The Ports and Shipping business recorded an encouraging 
performance during the year under review, especially during the 
fourth quarter as a result of higher vessel movement through the 
POC driven by the Red Sea crisis. This trend is anticipated to persist 
until the resolution of the crisis. While it's expected that the majority 
of the new traffic stemming from the crisis will revert to the Suez 
Canal post-resolution, Sri Lanka stands to benefit from heightened 
visibility and trust, potentially retaining some business in the long-
term.
	y
The sustained economic growth in India will continue to support 
regional trade volumes which will benefit the POC considering its 
location and proximity to India. 
	y
South Asia Gateway Terminals (SAGT), given its positioning as 
a feeder terminal, is strategically placed to capitalise on this 
opportunity and support the envisaged transshipment cargo flows, 
to and from India as well as regionally, to large vessels and vice 
versa. The business will continue to proactively optimise its costs, 
productivity and inventory, whilst continually engaging with its 
customers and other stakeholders. 
	y
The revenue and profit streams of the Ports and Shipping business 
is largely in foreign currency; should the current appreciating trend 
of the Rupee continue, this would translate to lower results in Rupee 
terms, although growth in absolute volumes and the performance in 
foreign currency is likely to cushion the impact.
	y
Given the increased emphasis on privatisation by the Government 
and the resultant benefits accruing to the State, it is probable that a 
majority of port-related activities will be undertaken in liaison with 
the private sector.
Bunkering
	y
Experts estimate that the global bunker market will witness increased 
demand for bunker fuel on the back of the Red Sea crisis. This was 
evident from the higher-than-normal increase in bunker demand to 
Sri Lanka from November 2023 onwards, which primarily arose from 
the tensions in the Red Sea; this trend is expected to continue until 
the resolution of the crisis. Going forward, heightened awareness and 
familiarity with the Sri Lankan market may help retain a new segment 
of clientele even post the resolution of the crisis. 
	y
Competition from Indian ports is also likely to moderate with the 
reduction in Russian cargo flowing to India, as witnessed towards 
the tail-end of the year. The business is currently actively exploring 
possibilities to procure oil at more competitive rates, which will aid in 
strengthening its market position, enhancing competitiveness, and 
consolidating its presence in the region.
	y
Executing strategies aimed at mitigating the market risk stemming 
from fluctuations in oil prices and exchange rates will remain a 
priority for the business in the near-term.
	y
Focus will also be placed on expanding capacity in line with demand 
trends. 
TRANSPORTATION
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude oil price and NYMEX confidence intervals
(dollars per barrel)
160
140
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
CY21
CY22
95% NYMEX 
futures price 
confidence 
interval upper 
bound
95% NYMEX 
futures price 
confidence 
interval lower 
bound
NYMEX 
futures price
CY23
CY24
CY25
Data source: U.S. Energy Information Administration, Short-Term Energy Outlook, May 
2024, CME Group, Bloomberg, L.P., and Refinitiv an LSEG Business
Note: Confidence interval derived from options market information for the five trading 
days ending May 2, 2024. Intervals not calculated for months with sparse trading in 
near-the-money options contracts.
West Texas Intermediate (WTI) Spot Price
Brent Crude Oil Price
STEO forecast
Rotterdam 
Netherlands
Suez Canal
Yemen
Red Sea
Bab el-Mandeb Strait
Cape of Good Hope
14,000 
nautical miles 
8-10 days longer
11,000 
nautical miles
Shanghai, 
China

143
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Other
	y
Logistics: While headwinds are expected to persist for the Logistics 
business in the immediate-term, the gradual removal of import 
restrictions and the normalisation of export volumes are anticipated 
to result in increased volumes, which will have a positive impact on 
the business, and the industry as a whole.
	y
Airlines: The recent uptick in tourism will bode well for the airlines 
business. As observed during the recent quarters, airline frequencies 
are expected to rise in tandem with the increase in tourism flows. 
New budget carriers which have announced new frequencies into the 
country have intensified competition for established airlines. However, 
this should bode well for more competitive fares and supply.
	y
The industry group is exploring several opportunities within the 
transportation vertical with the aim of expanding its footprint in 
Sri Lanka.
Medium to Long-Term
Ports and Shipping
The continued recovery of domestic import volumes in line with the 
recovery of the domestic economy, augmented with growth in regional 
and global trade in the medium-term, is expected to bode well for 
the sector. The opportunity to further establish Colombo as a regional 
transshipment hub has been further strengthened, post the emergence 
of the pandemic, as shipping lines have demonstrated a preference 
to have less direct services and adopt a more 'hub and spoke' model. 
The order book of many of the leading shipping lines focuses on larger 
container ships, demonstrating their strategy and preference to call at 
transshipment hubs. 
The ongoing investments towards increasing the capacity in the POC 
through the development of the East Container Terminal (ECT) and West 
Container Terminal (WCT-1), will bode well for the country, ensuring 
the competitiveness of the POC in the region – especially in light of 
increasing capacity enhancements at Indian ports. 
	y
East Container Terminal – ECT is partially operational on a transitory 
basis at present. Construction work at the ECT, which recommenced 
in January 2022, is stated to be completed in CY2024. The ECT 
extends across 75 hectares and will consist of a total quay length of 
1,320 meters, of which 440 meters was constructed in CY2015. Once 
completed, the SLPA is expected to operate a fully-fledged terminal 
equipped with 12 shore-to-shore (STS) cranes and 40 automated rail 
mounted gantry (RMG) cranes.
	y
West Container Terminal - The build, operate and transfer (BOT) 
agreement for the development of the West Container Terminal 
(WCT-1) was signed on 30 September 2021 for a lease period of 35 
years between the Sri Lanka Ports Authority (SLPA) and Colombo 
West International Container Terminal (Private) Limited (CWIT). 
The development and operation of the WCT-1 was identified as a 
Strategic Development Project (SDP) with the requisite gazettes 
being issued on 30 July 2021 and 15 November 2021.
The groundwork on WCT-1 at the Port of Colombo is progressing well 
with the entirety of the dredging works for both phases complete. 
The first batch of quay and yard cranes is expected to arrive in August 
2024, following which the commissioning and automation is expected 
be completed by the third quarter of 2024/25. The first phase of the 
terminal is slated to be operational in the fourth quarter of 2024/25. The 
WCT-1, which has a lease period of 35 years, is a deep-water terminal 
with a quay length of 1,400 meters, an alongside depth of 20 meters 
and an annual handling capacity of ~3.2 million TEUs. The quay length 
of 800 metres in Phase 1 facilitates the servicing of two large vessels 
concurrently, which will enable a higher throughput once Phase 1 is 
operational. The remainder of the terminal is expected to be completed 
in mid-2026.
	y
SLPA is currently seeking investment for the Colombo North Port 
(CNP) development project as a part of a comprehensive 30-year 
development strategy. The proposed CNP is to consist of three 
container terminals, with a combined quay-length of 4,600 metres, 
a multi-purpose terminal with a 700-metre quay, two oil berths as 
well as logistics/warehousing space. The long-term aspirations of the 
SLPA are encouraging and expected to spearhead Colombo being 
established as a leading transshipment hub in the region in terms of 
scale, providing scope for sustainable growth for the sector.
	y
The Government is also in discussions with India on the development 
of the Trincomalee Port, particularly given its potential for cruise 
tourism. Additionally, India has also pledged a USD 61.5 million grant 
to develop the Kankesanthurai (KKS) Port in the Northern Province.
Colombo South Harbour Development Project
SOUTH HARBOUR 
DEVELOPMENT
CURRENT 
HARBOUR
SAGT
East 
Terminal
West 
Terminal
South Terminal
JCT
CICT
WCT-1
ECT
Although the increase in capacity in the POC in the medium-term will 
result in an impact on volumes for the existing terminal operators in the 
short-term, as seen with the entry of Colombo International Container 
Terminals (CICT) in the past, the capacity led growth will ensure 
demand ramps up swiftly given the factors mentioned previously. This 
is further validated through the traffic and volume studies conducted 
for the feasibility of the WCT-1 project. SAGT will continue to work 
towards improving terminal productivity and efficiency through 
strategic initiatives and investments. Special emphasis will be placed on 
consolidating its operations, providing high value-added and integrated 
services whilst increasing SAGT's share of higher yielding domestic 
volumes with a view of achieving a more balanced mix of transshipment 
to domestic volumes, in order to optimise profitability.

144 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
Bunkering
Prospects for bunkering services are promising in the medium-term, 
driven by the envisaged increase in regional trade activity and demand 
generated from ongoing investments at POC, Southern. Northern 
and Eastern Ports. The Hambantota International Port (HIP) is also 
expected to aid overall growth in volumes given increased capacity 
and infrastructure in the country. Growth in regional business activity, 
particularly in the SAARC (South Asian Association for Regional 
Cooperation) region is also expected to positively impact the business.
The primary challenge for the bunkering market in Sri Lanka was 
the limited availability of bonded tank space which hampered the 
destination's regional competitiveness and the ability to meet increasing 
demand. Additionally, the pumping and storage charges imposed by 
the local authorities are also significantly higher than regional charges, 
such as in Singapore, Fujairah or India. Addressing these issues is pivotal 
as this will enable industry players to import larger parcels of bunker fuel 
and avail the opportunity to supply bunker fuel at more competitive 
prices in line with regional ports. Improved competitiveness is expected 
to drive bunker volumes in the industry. In order to capitalise on this 
opportunity, the business will continue to focus on further consolidating 
its delivery capacity, and procurement processes in line with market 
conditions.
Although the industry may experience a shift in volumes from the POC 
to the HIP in the short to medium-term, the Group is of the view that an 
increase in additional tank capacity will aid the overall bunker market, 
positively impacting both the POC and HIP. 
The business will also evaluate options of supplying alternate fuels in the 
long-term in line with the expectations and timelines of the International 
Maritime Organisation (IMO). 
Logistics
The potential for third-party logistics (3PL) remains promising in the 
medium to long-term with growth expected primarily from inbound 
project cargo operations, fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG) and 
export industries. The anticipated growth in regional and domestic 
trading activity, stemming from global economic recovery and ongoing 
infrastructure developments in the country, indicate significant potential 
for increasing integration into global supply chains and the positioning 
of Sri Lanka as a regional hub. JKLL will endeavour to optimise cost 
and drive operational efficiencies, particularly through emphasis on 
digitisation initiatives. 3PL customers are increasingly seeking end-to-
end solutions and, in this regard, every effort will be made to ensure a 
complete service offering.
Airlines
Increased trading activity and investment towards uplifting the tourism 
industry, coupled with convenience of faster connectivity between cities 
and Sri Lanka's growing popularity as a tourist hotspot, are expected to 
contribute towards improved performance of the Airline segment in the 
medium to-long-term.
TRANSPORTATION
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW

Beverages  
CSD    |    Non-CSD
	y
Carbonated soft drinks (CSD) under the 'Elephant 
House' brand.
	y
Non-CSD range:
•	 Water branded under 'Elephant House'.
•	 'Twistee', a fruit-based tea drink.
•	 'Fit-O', a fruit flavoured drink.
•	 Flavoured milk branded under 'Elephant House'.
Frozen Confectionery
Bulk    |    Impulse
	y
Wide selection of Frozen Confectionery products, 
including the premium ice cream range 'Imorich', 
'Feelgood' guilt-free frozen yoghurt range and 
other Impulse products such as stick, cone, and cup 
varieties.
Convenience Foods
	y
Processed meat products under the 'Keells-Krest' and 
'Elephant House' brands.
	y
A range of crumbed and formed meat products 
under the 'Keells-Krest' brand.
	y
Dry range products under the 'Keells Krest' brand, 
which currently includes pasta and 'Keells-Krest Soya 
Meat', a plant-based product. 
CONSUMER FOODS
Note: The above products comprise a portfolio of leading consumer 
brands – all household names - supported by an established island-wide 
distribution channel and dedicated sales team.
2023/24
2022/23
2021/22
Operational Highlights
Volume growth: 
Frozen Confectionery
%
2 
(7)
17 
Beverages (CSD)
%
10 
(7)
18 
Convenience Foods
%
(9)
(22)
12 
Financial and Manufactured Capital
Revenue
Rs.million
 32,897 
 31,269 
 21,008 
EBITDA
Rs.million
 5,010 
 3,296 
 3,502 
PBT
Rs.million
 2,974 
 1,164 
 2,347 
PAT
Rs.million
 2,174 
 1,745 
 1,925 
Total assets
Rs.million
 24,861 
 23,438 
 19,508 
Total equity
Rs.million
 11,930 
 11,052 
 9,531 
Total debt 1
Rs.million
 5,238 
 6,536 
 3,114 
Capital employed 2
Rs.million
 17,307 
 17,746 
 12,792 
Natural Capital
Energy consumption 
kWh
 26,386,554  25,100,570  26,766,650 
Energy consumption per operational 
intensity factor
kWh per 
Rs.million
734.59
735.16
1,163.36
Carbon footprint
MT
 20,223 
 19,284 
 19,581 
Carbon footprint per operational 
intensity factor
MT per 
Rs.million
0.56
0.56
0.85
Water withdrawal 
m3
 552,013 
 494,874 
 482,213 
Water withdrawal per operational 
intensity factor
m3 per 
Rs.million
15.37
14.49
20.96
Volume of hazardous waste generated kg
 279,060 
 254,888 
 266,665 
Volume of non hazardous waste 
generated
kg
 1,567,387  1,239,167  1,508,101 
Waste generated per operational 
intensity factor
kg per 
Rs.million
51.40
43.76
77.14
Human Capital
Total Workforce (employees and 
contractors' staff)
No.
1,684
1,568
1,561
EBIT per employee 
Rs.million
3
2
2
Average training per employee
hours
35
19
17
Total Attrition
%
15
13
14
Females employee
%
12
11
10
Total injuries
No.
17
14
12
Social and Relationship Capital
Community Services and Infrastructure 
Projects3
Rs.'000
 20,292
 8,717 
 19,611 
1. 	 Excludes lease liabilities.
2. 	 Includes lease liabilities.
3.	 Only the contribution to John Keells Foundation.
Contribution to the John Keells Group
10%
11%
3%
17%
Revenue
EBIT
Capital Employed
Carbon Footprint
145
145
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information

146 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
External Environment and Operational Review
Macroeconomic Update
	y
The operating environment in the country continued its gradual 
normalisation supported by sustained improvement in the 
country's key macroeconomic indicators. However, disposable 
incomes were negatively impacted by the imposition of direct 
and indirect taxes although consumer discretionary spend 
demonstrated a recovery in the latter part of the financial year. 
Based on the statistics of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL), 
consumption expenditure estimates at constant prices in 
CY2023, have contracted due to decreased purchasing power. 
Refer Operating Environment section of this Report for a detailed 
discussion.
Key Policy and Regulatory Highlights
	y
In November 2023, the special commodity levy (SCL) imposed 
on imported sugar was increased from Rs.25 cents to Rs.50 per 
kilogram.
	y
The duty waiver on imported skimmed milk powder (SMP) was 
removed and a customs import duty (CID) of Rs.225 per kg 
was imposed in August 2023. Moreover, SMP was made liable 
to the port and airport development levy (PAL) at 10% from 
September 2023.
	y
The value added tax (VAT) rate was increased from 15% to 18%, 
and excise duty on carbonated soft drinks increased by ~16% 
with effect from 1 January 2024.
	y
Import restrictions imposed from CY2020 onwards were lifted 
in three stages during 2023/24. As of October 2023, import 
restrictions on all items were removed, other than motor vehicles.
	y
Electricity tariffs for industry sectors were increased, on average, 
by ~40% and ~12%, in February and October 2023, respectively, 
and subsequently revised downwards by ~9% in July 2023, 
in line with the cost reflective pricing mechanism which was 
adopted to reduce the cost of subsidies provided by the 
Government. Tariffs were subsequently revised downwards by 
~18%, on average, in March 2024.
For a detailed discussion, refer the Operating Environment section of 
the report on page 41.
During the year under review, the Consumer Foods businesses recorded 
an encouraging performance, driven by both the Beverages and the 
Frozen Confectionery businesses. Margins recorded an improvement 
on account of normalising input costs from the previous peaks and 
reductions in overhead costs whilst both businesses witnessed 
encouraging volume growth, particularly in the seasonal months. 
Beverages 
The Beverages business recorded a notable 7% increase in volumes 
during the year under review [2022/23: negative 5%] despite the 
significant price revisions undertaken. This growth was driven by a 
recovery in the CSD segment which recorded a volume growth of 10% 
[2022/23: negative 7%]. 
CSD: Non-CSD Volume Mix 
87:13
[2022/23: 84:16]
In tandem with the recovery of the macroeconomic environment, both 
returnable glass bottles (RGB) and polyethylene terephthalate (PET) 
volumes witnessed a recovery in volumes. The PET: RGB mix stood at 
91:9 during the year under review, in comparison with 89:11 in 2022/23. 
The smaller pack sizes continued to have traction in the market given 
the lower price point.
INSIGHTS
Volume 
Growth (%)
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
2023/24
2022/23
CSD
(3)
5
0
42
10
(7)
	y
Q1 – The volume reduction of 3% in the first quarter of 2023/24 
was an encouraging recovery compared to the steep volume 
decline of 40% recorded in the fourth quarter of 2022/23. It 
should be noted that the first quarter of the previous year 
was a strong quarter in terms of performance, where volumes 
exceeded pre-pandemic levels.
	y
Q2 – Volumes noted a recovery supported by the gradual 
recovery of the economy and consumer activity. 
	y
Q3 – The business witnessed encouraging volume growth in the 
seasonal month of December 2023, which was less affected by 
adverse weather conditions unlike in the months of October and 
November 2023. 
	y
Q4 – The strong growth in volumes was driven by seasonal sales 
coupled with favourable weather conditions, albeit from a lower 
base in the fourth quarter of 2022/23, as consumer disposable 
income was impacted by the increase in personal income taxes 
implemented with effect from 1 January 2023. The performance 
of the fourth quarter of 2023/24 was encouraging despite 
selling price adjustments on some stock keeping units (SKUs) on 
account of passing on the higher duty on sugar and the increase 
in the VAT from 15% to 18%.
CONSUMER FOODS
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
CSD Volumes
CSD Volumes
(Index: FY21 Q1 = 100)
(Index: FY21 Q1 = 100)
0
50
100
150
200
250
FY21
FY22
FY23
FY24

147
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
As expected, the Beverages business recorded an improvement in 
margins on account of declining raw material prices, further aided by the 
appreciation of the Rupee and cost management actions undertaken by 
the business. In November 2023, the SCL imposed on imported sugar 
was increased from Rs.25 cents to Rs.50 per kilogram. The Beverages 
business undertook price increases in select SKUs to mitigate the margin 
impact stemming from the higher SCL, and increase in the VAT rate and 
the excise duty effective from January 2024.
Apart from the adjustments to selling prices across SKUs and the 
benefit from reduction in some input costs, the business undertook the 
following cost reduction initiatives to further improve margins:
	y
Initiatives aimed at optimising costs of packaging materials.
	y
Production process improvements in factories to increase output 
efficiency.
	y
Negotiations with suppliers to enhance terms and conditions for raw 
materials and packing materials.
	y
Installation of variable frequency drivers, solar panels and internal 
control initiatives to significantly reduce energy consumption.
The business retained its distributor network by implementing effective 
planning and brand building strategies whilst financially supporting 
its distributors given the increase in taxes and logistics costs. There was 
a strategic focus on increasing distribution efficiency by proactively 
engaging and monitoring distributors through integrated digital platforms 
which provided real-time information and insights. The continued 
workflow and factory automation programmes, including upgrades to 
the sales force automation system, enabled the integration of information 
generated which facilitated numerous data analytics-driven projects. 
The business continued to roll-out its advanced analytics transformation 
programme during the year, where several well-defined advanced 
analytics use cases earmarked for the Beverages business were 
successfully deployed. Currently, the business has rolled-out six use 
cases which have been successfully deployed in optimising promotional 
spend across modern trade and the general trade segments, as well as 
in augmenting the production planning process. The use cases aimed at 
augmenting the efficiency of the distribution network of the Beverages 
business are in advanced stages of deployment. 
Products Launched 
	y
'Elephant House' five litre water bottle under the non-CSD segment.
	y
'Elephant House' 250 ml cans in Cream Soda, EGB, Necto, Orange 
Crush, Tonic and Soda ranges.
The fresh milk category under the 'Elephant House' brand was 
discontinued from January 2024.
Expansion Strategies 
Partnership with Reliance Group, India, to distribute 'Elephant 
House' branded beverages in India
	y
In February 2024, Ceylon Cold Stores PLC (CCS) partnered with 
Reliance Consumer Products Limited (RCPL), the fast-moving 
consumer goods (FMCG) arm and wholly owned subsidiary of 
Reliance Retail Ventures Limited (RRVL), to manufacture, market, 
distribute and sell beverages under the 'Elephant House' brand 
in India.
	y
Under the partnership, CCS will export the CSD flavour 
concentrate to RCPL. The unique selling proposition for 
'Elephant House' is the similarity of the flavour pallets between 
the Sri Lankan and Indian markets, as sampled through pilot 
studies.
	y
RRVL, through its subsidiaries and affiliates, operates an 
integrated omni-channel network of ~18,700 stores and digital 
commerce platforms with over three million merchants through 
its new commerce initiative. 
	y
The partnership marks a significant milestone in amplifying 
presence in India, where market entry is challenging. The 
collaboration with a reputed partner such as Reliance, together 
with synergies due to the expertise and experience of both 
organisations, is expected to provide a strong platform for 
success.
Acquisition of a bottling and can manufacturing plant
	y
During the year, CCS acquired a PET bottling and can 
manufacturing plant. This acquisition is expected to support 
the expansion of the business's product portfolio, in terms of 
providing additional capacity for PET production and entering a 
new market segment via canned beverages.
	y
Canning operations at the plant commenced in March 2024, 
with five SKUs expected to be launched during the ensuing 
financial year. 
The newly launched 'Elephant House' 250 ml cans.
	y
'Elephant House Cream Soda' was awarded 'Beverage Brand of 
the Year' by SLIM Nielson People's Awards.
	y
Awarded 'Best Ethically Trading Exporter - Large Category' at the 
National Chamber of Exporters Annual Export Awards.
	y
Received the following awards at the 'Effie Awards 2023':
•	 'Elephant House Soda' won Bronze for 'Seasonal Marketing'.
•	 'Elephant House 250 ml Pocket Size' won Bronze for 'Crisis 
Response'.
AWARDS

148 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
Frozen Confectionery 
Similar to the Beverages business, the Frozen Confectionery (FC) business 
witnessed a recovery in volumes during the year under review, recording 
a growth of 2% in volumes [2022/23: negative 7%]. Volume growth was 
driven by the Bulk segment which recorded a growth of 5%, mainly 
attributable to seasonal demand [2022/23: negative 15%]. The Impulse 
segment recorded a marginal decline of 2% in volumes [2022/23: 10% 
growth], primarily attributable to adverse weather conditions which 
prevailed during most parts of the second half of 2023/24. 
Despite the increase in the VAT rate effective from January 2024, the 
recovery momentum of volumes continued in both segments. Given 
the improvement in margins on account of input cost decreases, the 
business undertook price reductions in select SKUs, where possible, 
particularly in the Impulse segment to pass on the price benefit to 
consumers while also enabling a stronger recovery in volumes. 
The Bulk:Impulse volume mix for the year stood at 64:36, compared with 
62:38 recorded in the previous year. As envisaged, in line with the long-
term strategy of the business and trends witnessed in regional markets, 
the FC business is expected to witness an increase in the volume 
contribution from the Impulse segment given the affordable price point, 
lifestyle and convenience aspect of the product. 
Bulk: Impulse Volume Mix 
64:36
[2022/23: 62:38]
Export market volumes recorded a growth of 11% in 2023/24, 
underpinned by higher demand arising from increased tourist arrivals in 
the Maldives.
Similar to the Beverages business, the FC business recorded an 
improvement in margins on account of declining raw material prices 
together with the appreciation of the Rupee. This margin improvement 
is despite the increase in SCL for sugar and CID and PAL for skimmed 
milk powder. The margins recorded an increase despite the impact 
of the social security contribution levy (SSCL) which came into effect 
in October 2022, which is a revenue-based tax similar to the nation 
building tax (NBT) in place a few years ago. 
To address the operational cost pressures during the year, the business 
undertook the following initiatives: 
	y
Production process improvements in factories. 
	y
Negotiations with suppliers to enhance working capital terms and 
conditions for raw materials and packing materials.
	y
Installation of variable frequency drivers, solar panels and internal 
control initiatives to significantly reduce energy consumption.
	y
The 'E2EQuality' extension project was launched to uphold the 
product quality of frozen confectioneries. This further augments the 
'Beelive – Connected Factory' internet of things (IoT) initiative, which 
helped monitor key production/storage metrics in real-time, that 
was successfully implemented previously at the ice cream facility in 
Seethawaka. 
As part of its advanced analytics transformation programme, the FC 
business currently has one use case rolled-out. Use cases aimed at 
augmenting the efficiency of the distribution network of the FC business 
are in advanced stages of deployment.
Products Launched 
	y
Popsicles: 
•	 'Major Max' Freezer Pops in Strawberry, Green Apple, Blackcurrant 
and Orange flavours. 
•	 360 ml 'Fusion Popsicles' in Naarang and Sea Salt, Passion and 
Chilli, and Siyambala and Honey flavours.
	y
Relaunched the Pani Kadju and Faluda cones.
INSIGHTS
Volume 
Growth (%)
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
2023/24
2022/23
Frozen 
Confectionery
(10)
(2)
(2)
24
2
(7)
	y
Q1 – The volume reduction of 10% was an encouraging recovery 
compared to the steep volume decline of 30% recorded in 
the fourth quarter of 2022/23. It should be noted that the first 
quarter of the previous year was a strong quarter in terms of 
performance, with volumes exceeding pre-pandemic levels.
	y
Q2 – Although volumes declined, the rate of decline in volumes 
continued to moderate supported by the sustained recovery of 
the economy and consumer activity. 
	y
Q3 – The business witnessed encouraging volume growth in 
the seasonal month of December 2023, which was less affected 
by adverse weather conditions unlike in the months of October 
and November 2023 that witnessed a moderated growth. These 
factors contributed to the decline in volumes.
	y
Q4 – A growth of 24% was recorded, albeit off a lower base in 
the fourth quarter of 2022/23, due to seasonal sales coupled 
with favourable weather conditions.
CONSUMER FOODS
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
FC Volumes
FC Volumes
(Index: FY21 Q1 = 100)
(Index: FY21 Q1 = 100)
0
50
100
150
200
250
FY21
FY22
FY23
FY24

149
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Convenience Foods
Keells Food Products PLC (KFP) recorded a 9% decline in volumes 
during 2023/24 on account of the moderation in consumer spend on 
processed meats, which is more discretionary and at a higher price point 
compared to the Beverages and FC businesses [2022/23: negative 22%]. 
The volumes were also affected on account of the reduction in general 
food prices and the relative prices of protein substitute products in the 
processed meat category. Despite the decline in volume growth during 
the first half of the year attributable to reduced consumer spending in 
this category, the business experienced a notable recovery in the second 
half of the year, driven by an increase in demand and strategic price 
revisions which improved product affordability.
INSIGHTS
Volume 
Growth (%)
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
2023/24
2022/23
Convenience 
Foods
(35)
(18)
(1)
42
(9)
(22)
	y
Q1 – The decline in volumes was driven by a decrease in retail 
sausage volumes as a result of a moderation in consumer spend 
on processed meats, which is a more discretionary category. 
These products are also at a higher price point compared to the 
SKUs of the Beverages and Frozen Confectionery businesses.
	y
Q2 and Q3 – The moderation in consumer spend on processed 
meats witnessed a recovery from the second to the third quarter, 
with the volume decline stabilising from the previous peaks by 
the end of the third quarter. 
	y
Q4 – Recovery was driven by seasonal sales, albeit from a lower 
base in the fourth quarter of 2022/23. 
'Major Max' Freezer Pops and 360 ml 'Fusion Popsicles' assorted box.
	y
SLIM Brand Excellence Awards 2023:
•	 'Elephant House' ice cream won Gold for 'Product Brand of the 
Year'.
•	 'Elephant House' ice cream won Silver for 'Local Brand of the 
Year'.
	y
Awarded Gold in the 'Confectionery Products Sector - Large 
Category' at the National Chamber of Exporters Annual Exports 
Awards 2023.
	y
Won two Gold awards at the SLIM National Sales Awards 2022/23 
in the frozen confectionery category.
AWARDS
*Covid-19 pandemic related disruptions
**Domestic financial crisis
During the year under review, the business maintained its position as 
the market leader in the processed meats category. The retail sausages 
and meatballs categories recorded a negative growth of 21% and 23%, 
respectively [2022/23: negative 9% and negative 16%, respectively]. 
However, it is encouraging that retail sausage volumes rebounded 
during the second half of 2023/24, increasing by 2%, in comparison 
to the same period of the previous year. The retail sausages category 
contributed ~27% to the overall volumes. The business took an ~5% 
decrease in prices in these categories during the year under review 
which also aided volume growth. No price increases were undertaken 
across all categories due to the increase in VAT rates during the year.
The modern trade channel accounted for 33% of total volumes, while 
the general trade and hotels, restaurants, catering (HORECA) channels 
accounted for 40% and 25%, respectively. The HORECA channels 
demonstrated a recovery in volumes, driven by higher tourist arrivals and 
the recovery in the macroeconomic environment from the previous year. 
Supply chain disruptions and changes in supplier networks from the 
previous year posed sourcing challenges for the Convenience Foods 
business, similar to the experience of the overall industry. These sourcing 
challenges had eased to a great extent towards the latter part of the 
financial year. During the year, the business entered into forward contracts 
to secure stocks, minimise production disruptions and ensure continued 
availability of products. It also undertook several initiatives to manage 
working capital requirements, including negotiations with suppliers to revert 
to previous letter of credit (LC) terms and reducing stock holding periods. 
FY21*
FY22
FY23**
FY24
Convenience Foods Volumes
Convenience Foods Volumes
Index: FY21 Q1 = 100
Index: FY21 Q1 = 100
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
The newly introduced 90g 'Tandoori Soya' in the soya meat range.

150 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
The business undertook the following process improvements:
	y
Implemented blast freezing to enhance product preservation and 
freshness.
	y
Upgraded the transport fleet to optimise the cold chain, thereby 
guaranteeing the integrity of products throughout the supply chain.
	y
Initiatives to replace imported input material with locally sourced 
material.
	y
Implemented capacity bankers to reduce energy consumption.
	y
Streamlined operations and costs by implementing innovative 
measures to reduce water treatment expenses.
	y
Digital transformation through the integration of the 'SHE' (safety, 
health, and environment) application, ensuring comprehensive and 
efficient management of safety protocols.
	y
Enhanced logistics management with the implementation of a GPS 
(global positioning system) for its distribution trucks and temperature 
tracking system, enabling real-time monitoring and optimisation of 
delivery processes.
The business continued its proactive retail drive by introducing 
economic value packs, aimed at ensuring wider product availability and 
delivering on 'value for money' products.
Products Launched 
	y
90g 'Tandoori Soya' in the soya meat range.
	y
Expansion of the dry category with the introduction of 'Keells Krest 
Pasta'. Launched the 375g 'Chifferi Pasta' and 'Seashells Pasta'.
	y
Relaunched the 'Kochchi Bite' as 'Nai Miris Bite'.
	y
Extension of the meatballs range with the introduction of the 70g 
'Keells Krest Meatballs'.
	y
Received a Silver award at the SLIM NASCO (National Sales 
Congress) Awards. 
	y
Awarded Silver at the National Chamber of Exporters Annual 
Export Award 2023.
AWARDS
CONSUMER FOODS
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
Financial Performance Review
Income Statement Indicators  
Rs.million
2023/24
2022/23
%
Revenue
Beverages and Frozen 
Confectionery (FC)
            28,548 
         26,385 
8
Convenience Foods
              4,349 
            4,884
(11)
Total
           32,897 
         31,269 
5
EBITDA* 
Beverages and FC
        4,893 
        2,854 
71
Convenience Foods
           117 
           442 
(74)
Total
       5,010 
        3,296 
52
PBT 
Beverages and FC
          3,249 
         1,108 
193
Convenience Foods
            (275)
            55 
(600)
Total 
          2,974 
         1,163 
156
*EBITDA includes interest income but excludes all impacts from foreign currency 
exchange gains and losses, to demonstrate the underlying cash operational 
performance of businesses.
The ensuing discussion aims to provide an insight to the performance of 
the businesses across the quarters.
Beverages and FC businesses
(%)
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Beverages (CSD) revenue 
growth 
23
8
2
46
Beverages (CSD) volume 
growth 
(3)
5
0
42
FC revenue growth 
0
(4)
(6)
16
FC volume growth 
(10)
(2)
(2)
24
Beverages and FC EBITDA 
(Rs.million)
728
1,219
844
2,102
Beverages and FC EBITDA 
growth (%)
(30)
45
162
224
	y
As outlined in the External Environment and Operational Review, the 
Beverages (CSD) and FC businesses recorded a growth in revenue on 
account of:
•	 Increases in volumes of both the Beverages (CSD) and FC 
businesses, driven by an encouraging recovery momentum and 
higher sales in seasonal months. 
•	 Price increases undertaken in the Beverages (CSD) category on 
select SKUs to mitigate direct and indirect increases in costs of 
input materials. 
	y
The EBITDA of the Beverages and FC businesses recorded an 
improvement in margins on account of declining raw material prices, 
further aided by the appreciation of the Rupee and cost management 
initiatives undertaken by the business. 
Newly introduced 'Keells Krest Pasta'.
For further details on initiatives to improve margins, refer the External 
Environment and Operational Review section.

151
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
	y
EBITDA of the FC business was mainly driven by the Impulse segment 
given its higher product margins.  
	y
The Bulk:Impulse revenue mix was at 47:53 during the year under 
review, compared with 44:56 in 2022/23.
	y
During the year under review, the EBITDA margin of the Beverages 
and FC businesses increased significantly to 17.1% [2022/23: 10.8%].
	y
The PBT of the Beverages and FC businesses recorded a significant 
improvement driven by the increase in EBITDA, further supported by 
the decline in finance expenses on account of the easing of interest 
rates and normalisation of working capital cycles.
Convenience Foods 
(%)
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Convenience Foods 
revenue growth 
(12)
(20)
(15)
14
Convenience Foods 
volume growth 
(35)
(18)
(1)
42
Convenience Foods 
EBITDA (Rs.million)
(9)
18
53
54
Convenience Foods 
EBITDA growth (%)
(105)
(89)
(33)
1,574
	y
As outlined in the External Environment and Operational Review, 
revenue was negatively impacted due to the decline in volume on 
account of the moderation in consumer spend on processed meats 
and a reduction in general food prices and the relative prices of 
protein substitute products in the processed meat category. The 
business recorded an improvement in volumes in the second half of 
the year on account of the gradual recovery in demand.
	y
The general trade and modern trade channels recorded a decline in 
volumes of 16% and 11%, respectively, whilst the HORECA channels 
recorded a growth of 9% during the year driven by tourist arrivals and 
the recovery in the macroeconomic environment. 
	y
Whilst the decline in revenue impacted EBITDA, the increase in 
electricity costs further negatively impacted EBITDA. During the 
year, the business undertook process improvements as detailed in 
the External Environment and Operational Review, to minimise the 
impact on margins.
	y
The Convenience Foods business witnessed a normalising trend in 
raw material prices, similar to the Beverages and FC businesses.
	y
During the year under review, the EBITDA margin of the Convenience 
Foods business stood at 2.7% [2022/23: 9.0%].
	y
The decline in PBT stemmed from the decline in revenue and EBITDA, 
as mentioned previously.
The fair value gains and losses on investment property pertaining to 
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC (CCS) was recorded at Rs.17 million. Accordingly, 
the recurring EBITDA of the industry group, excluding the fair value gains 
and losses on investment property amounted to Rs.4.99 billion [2022/23: 
Rs.3.18 billion].
Balance Sheet Indicators
Rs.million
2023/24
2022/23
%
Assets
Beverages and FC
            21,147 
          19,429 
9
Convenience Foods
              3,714 
4,009 
(7)
Total
           24,861 
          23,438 
6
Debt* 
Beverages and FC
4,163 
5,306
(22)
Convenience Foods
1,074 
1,230
(13)
Total
5,237
6,536
(20)
*Excludes lease liabilities.
	y
The Beverages and FC businesses recorded an increase in assets due 
to:
•	 An investment in a PET bottling and can manufacturing plant by 
the Beverages business to support the expansion of the business's 
product portfolio.
•	 The Beverages and FC businesses invested in ~640 freezers during 
the year under review [2022/23: ~1,900].
•	 During the year under review, working capital cycles reverted to 
levels of normalcy resulting in an increase in trade receivables.
	y
The decrease in debt is primarily attributable to the decline in bank 
facilities as a result of normalising working capital cycles.
Lease liabilities as at 31 March 2024 stood at Rs.139 million [2022/23: 
Rs.158 million]. Total debt including leases stood at Rs.5.38 billion as at  
31 March 2024 [2022/23: Rs.6.70 billion].
Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) Analysis
ROCE
(%)
=
EBIT 
margin 
(%)
x
Asset 
turnover
x
Capital 
structure 
leverage
2023/24
21.5
11.5
1.36
1.38
2022/23 
14.5 
7.1 
1.46 
1.41
	y
The increase in ROCE was driven primarily by the increase in EBIT 
margins in the Beverages and FC businesses.

152 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
CONSUMER FOODS
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
Outlook and Risks
The performance of the Beverages, Frozen Confectionery and 
Convenience Foods businesses are expected to gather momentum 
in the ensuing year, following a prolonged period of macroeconomic 
challenges, continuing the encouraging recovery trend witnessed 
towards the latter end of 2023/24. With domestic demand conditions 
continuing to stabilise as evident in the performance in the fourth 
quarter of 2023/24, the Group remains confident of the underlying 
fundamentals of the industries the businesses operate in and envisages 
strong growth momentum in the medium and long-term.
Key risks, trends and opportunities relevant to the industry group:
Immediate to Short-Term
Demand and supply dynamics and consumption trends
	y
Consumer discretionary spend is envisaged to continue its 
encouraging recovery similar to the trends witnessed in the latter 
end of 2023/24 and April 2024 driven by improvements in the 
macroeconomic front, particularly with inflation rates reaching 
a position of relative stability. Volumes are envisaged to move in 
tandem with the overall economy, with the continuation of the 
growth momentum seen in the third and fourth quarters of 2023/24. 
Prices are envisaged to remain largely at current levels. 
	y
However, downside risks to outlook remain with a potential 
reduction in disposable income and moderation in spending growth 
on non-essential items. This may materialise in the event that the 
impact of previous price increases stemming from the recent fiscal 
consolidation measures, in particular the increase in taxes effective 
January 2024, and, on the Beverages front, the increase in the special 
commodity levy on sugar from Rs.25 cents up to Rs.50 per kilogram 
has not been fully absorbed. 
	y
The Beverages business will continue to closely monitor the shift 
from glass bottles to PET driven by consumer convenience and 
preferences, particularly though glass offers greater value for money 
to consumers which could be a focal point considering current 
market conditions. Glass packaging is also deemed the more 
environmentally friendly alternative.
	y
Focus will be placed on operationalising the Beverage business' 
partnership with Reliance Consumer Products (RCPL). Whilst the 
business will export the carbonated soft drinks (CSD) flavour 
concentrate to RCPL, RCPL will manufacture, market, distribute and 
sell beverages under the 'Elephant House' brand initially in south 
India before expanding across India.
	y
The hotels, restaurants, and catering (HORECA) channel is expected to 
gradually recover in tandem with the recovery of the tourism industry. 
	y
Given the impacts on household disposable income over the last few 
years, smaller pack sizes are envisaged to command a higher share of 
volume mix. 
	y
The Impulse range of the Frozen Confectionery business is expected 
to improve its share of the volume mix, given its lower price points 
and in line with global trends. 
	y
The businesses will continue to focus on re-inventing its portfolio 
of products as well as packaging to manage costs while offering 
enhanced value to its consumer base.
Costs and margins
	y
The recent reduction in electricity tariffs is expected to benefit the 
businesses in the short-term. However, power and energy costs 
remain to be a key risk of the business, and is envisaged to exert 
pressure on margins. The businesses will proactively monitor and take 
necessary measures while considering the price elasticity of demand 
of the products in its portfolio. 
	y
Significant improvements in the country's foreign exchange liquidity 
as well as the appreciation of the Rupee are likely to aid input cost 
reductions and alleviate margin pressures.
	y
Potential increase in input costs stemming from geopolitical tensions 
and global impacts such as the Israel-Palestine conflict and domestic 
developments are potential risks that may impact margins of the business. 
	y
New niche segments for unique flavours and functional 
ingredients 
	y
Emphasis on environmental sustainability, labelling 
prerequisites and sustainable packaging
	y
Opportunities for premiumisation 
	y
Technological integration, including artificial intelligence (AI), 
into food safety and product development
	y
Expansion into new markets regionally and globally
	y
Shifts in consumer behaviour towards healthier alternatives
	y
Elasticity of demand in the urban areas seem to be relatively 
more inelastic in comparison to non-urban areas within the 
country
	y
Macroeconomic and political environment*
•	 Lacklustre growth in consumer demand
•	 Changes in regulatory environment*
	y
Supply chain disruptions*
•	 Potential increase in input costs stemming from geopolitical 
tensions and global impacts and domestic developments
	y
Financial exposure*, in particular exchange rate volatility
	y
Global competitiveness* and evolving consumer preferences
	y
Human resources and talent management*
	y
Climate risks*
	y
Environment and health & safety*
	y
Information technology*
	y
Reputation and brand image*
Trends and Opportunities
Risks
*Identified as a risk across the Group through the Group's Enterprise Risk Management 
framework. Refer Key Risks section under Outlook and Risks for a detailed discussion.

153
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Capacity enhancements: 
	y
The Beverages business will focus on normalising operations of the 
recently acquired PET bottling and can manufacturing plant. Similar 
to the 250 ml cans which were recently launched, the business 
will place emphasis on optimising utilisation and returns of such 
investments, and continue the roll-out of new canned beverages. 
	y
Signs are prevalent that the lacklustre growth in consumer demand 
seen in recent years has changed course, similar to the latter part 
of 2023/24, with volumes noting an encouraging improvement. 
However, given that it is premature to ascertain how demand will 
materialise, capacity enhancements will be evaluated in line with 
business growth in the current year and the evolution of the portfolio 
of products. 
	y
Should the current recovery trajectory continue, select businesses 
may need to explore further capacity enhancements since the 
utilisation levels of most of the current factories and machinery 
would reach capacity. 
Managing stakeholders and product responsibility:
	y
Managing stakeholder concerns remains pivotal and a key challenge 
to businesses. Emphasis will be placed on maintaining rigorous 
engagement with its suppliers and distributors to ensure a seamless 
supply chain, strengthening the procurement process, better 
management of the working capital cycle and reduced credit risk 
exposure, while further streamlining the distributor network to 
ensure greater stability and consistency for the future. 
	y
The recent 'brain-drain' is expected to remain a risk, at least in the 
short-term. The businesses are committed to taking proactive 
measures to ensure disruptions to operations remain at a minimal 
level. Focus will also be placed on effective recruitment, especially 
key business positions. 
	y
Eight material recovery facilities (MRFs) were operational across the 
island in the year under review to aid the effective collection of waste 
items; mainly plastic, aluminium, glass and e-waste. The business has 
plans to increase this footprint to a total of 20 by end-2024/25.
Advanced analytics: 
	y
The businesses will continue to roll-out advanced analytics use cases 
in the ensuing period which will attempt to optimise production 
planning, further augmenting the businesses' positioning for long-
term sustainable growth.
	y
Emphasis will be placed on six use cases which have been 
successfully deployed in optimising promotional spend across 
modern trade and general trade segments and in augmenting 
production planning process. The business will also complete the 
deployment of use cases, which are aimed at augmenting the 
efficiency of the distribution network of the Beverages business.
Medium to Long-Term
Looking beyond the short-term impacts on demand and business 
performance following the turbulent macroeconomic period 
experienced by the country in the past couple of years, domestic 
demand conditions are envisaged to remain resilient and note 
significant growth in the medium-term in tandem with a revival of the 
economy and improvement in consumer confidence post the fiscal 
consolidation process.
	y
The penetration of consumer food products in Sri Lanka continues 
to be relatively low in comparison to global and regional peers, 
demonstrating the significant potential in these industries. 
•	 Given the higher penetration within urban areas, the Group expects 
growth from the outskirts of the country to be a substantial driver of 
medium to long-term growth, despite the lower base. 
•	 Businesses will capitalise on this opportunity by investing in its 
supply chain and augmenting its portfolio of offerings in line with 
evolving trends. 
	y
The business will continue to invest on its digitisation strategy in 
the medium to long-term as well, particularly in furtherance of the 
Group's advanced analytics transformation journey through data-
driven decision-making to garner insights, which is expected to 
optimise production practices, deliver productivity and cost savings, 
and identify growth opportunities.
	y
The introduction of concepts such as Extended Producer 
Responsibility (EPR), with the aim of managing waste and increasing 
recycling rates, if implemented gradually with proper communication 
and engagement with the affected industries, will aid the industry 
in converting its business models into sustainable practices. The 
businesses will continually ensure alignment with regulatory 
mandates and international best practice, including environmental 
sustainability.
	y
The long-term opportunity for the industry group is infinite, given 
evolving consumer tastes and preferences which create niche yet 
substantial markets that would aid the businesses to innovate and 
explore more personalised offerings, such as witnessed through the 
'Imorich' brand of the Frozen Confectionery business.
(5)
0
5
10
15
20
25
FY20
FY21
FY22
FY23
FY24
Q1
Q4
Q3
Q2
Q1
Q4
Q3
Q2
Beverages and Frozen Confectionery 
Convenience Foods
EBITDA Margin 
EBITDA Margin 
(%)
(%)

154 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
Beverages
INSIGHTS
INSIGHTS
Low consumption patterns and penetration reflects potential for 
growth in the CSD market
Carbonated soft drinks - per capita consumption (litres)
Carbonated soft drinks - per capita consumption (litres)
Sri Lanka
Malaysia
Singapore
Thailand
Philippines
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
10
19
31
39
52
Source: Company analysis 
	y
Per capita packaged beverage consumption in Sri Lanka is well 
below regional and global averages highlighting the growth 
potential for the beverages market in the country. 
	y
As a leading player in the beverages market, the Beverages 
business will leverage on its strong brand equity and distribution 
network to capitalise on this opportunity through a continuing 
pipeline of products.
Low frozen confectionery consumption levels in comparison to 
foreign markets
Ice cream – per capital annual consumption (litres)
Ice cream – per capital annual consumption (litres)
Sri Lanka
UK
Australia
USA
New Zealand
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
3
7
18
21
28
Source: WorldAtlas (2020)
The Beverages business will focus on the following:
	y
Continue to focus on developing its portfolio in line with evolving 
market trends, where consumers place increased emphasis on 
healthy and sustainable products, which are further augmented 
with evolving regulations and restrictions surrounding calorific sugar 
content in beverages. 
	y
Focus on consolidating its current CSD portfolio and discontinuing 
non-performing SKUs.
	y
Prioritise the extension of the current non-CSD range, based on 
market opportunity.
	y
Manage the composition of the portfolio to ensure optimum 
margins.
	y
Consolidate and stabilise distributor networks whilst improving sales 
force efficiency through digital means.
	y
Explore new operating models, different marketing channels and 
alternate methods of working, given changing consumer behaviour 
and digitisation trends.
	y
Focus on export expansion to increase global reach.
	y
The recent expansion into the Indian domestic market also presents 
considerable upside potential, which in the long-run may ease 
dependency on the Sri Lankan market.
	y
Place emphasis on brand communication and revamping its product 
packaging.
	y
Implementing lean initiatives at factories.
Frozen Confectionery 
Global frozen confectionery markets have experienced significant 
growth in recent years, barring the impacts of the pandemic, driven 
by rapid urbanisation, rising disposable income, and evolving lifestyle 
trends. The overall prospects for the frozen confectionery market in 
Sri Lanka remain positive given the industry's resilience, even amidst 
challenging conditions. This positive trend is expected to persist going 
forward, notwithstanding the short-term impacts previously discussed.
Ice cream consumption in Sri Lanka at ~3 litres per capita is well below 
global averages, demonstrating the significant potential for growth in 
this market. In line with global and regional peers, the business expects a 
gradual shift in the bulk to impulse mix towards impulse products, with 
impulse products being the primary driver of the envisaged increase in 
per capita ice cream consumption in Sri Lanka. 
CSD Portfolio Exposure 
	y
The share of CSD as a proportion of total beverages is envisaged 
to proportionately reduce in the long-term in line with the 
trends witnessed in recent years. However, the prospects for 
the beverage industry continue to be promising and provide 
opportunities for growth as the consumers, moving away from 
CSD, seek alternate beverage options. 
	y
For example, CSD manufacturers worldwide continue to engage 
in reformulation exercises with the aim of reducing the sugar 
content of their products and adopting sustainable packaging, 
whilst extending the portfolios to include non-CSD beverages, 
some of which are healthier and more nutritious. 
	y
The Beverages business has already reformulated its flagship 
flavours with ~30% – 45% of the CSD portfolio's calorific sugar 
content reformulated and replaced with stevia; a natural 
sweetener with zero calories.
CONSUMER FOODS
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW

155
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
INSIGHTS
The bulk:impulse mix of regional markets is highly tilted towards the 
impulse market, demonstrating the significant potential for the impulse 
category in the overall ice cream market of Sri Lanka
70
30
(%)
Bulk
Impluse
92
8
56
44
Sri Lanka
Sri Lanka
Thailand
Thailand
Malaysia
Malaysia
The Bulk:Impulse Mix of Regional Markets
The Bulk:Impulse Mix of Regional Markets
FY21
FY22
FY23
FY24
FY20
0
20
40
60
80
100
70
70
68
62
64
30
30
32
38
36
Bulk:Impulse Volume Mix of the Frozen Confectionery Business
Bulk:Impulse Volume Mix of the Frozen Confectionery Business
(%)
(%)
Impulse
Bulk
The Frozen Confectionery business envisages a similar trend for its portfolio in the 
long-term, in line with the overall market tilt towards impulse products.
The strategic priorities of the Frozen Confectionery business are:
	y
Focus on consolidating its current Frozen Confectionery portfolio, 
including the expansion of the 'Wellness' range and on flavour 
innovation.
	y
Investing in its supply chain, including increasing outlet penetration, 
expanding its distribution reach in an optimal manner whilst also 
focusing on distributor network efficiency.
	y
Extending operations at the state-of-the-art facility in Seethawaka to 
the Bulk segment in the long run. This facility continues to perform as 
envisaged, aiding innovative new product development, increased 
operational efficiencies and better margins.
	y
Emphasis on digitisation and process improvements, especially 
the implementation of lean initiatives at factories, and leveraging 
advanced data analytics.
	y
Possible extension into other confectionery categories.
Convenience Foods
The Convenience Foods business will continue to innovate and expand 
its portfolio offering. Emphasis will also be placed on staying abreast of 
market trends and changes in the competitive environment, which is 
expected to continue seeing the entry of smaller players.
The strategic priorities for the business are:
	y
Development of product extensions, paving the way for the business 
to increase its market share, particularly through emphasis on 
convenient and affordable meal options.
	y
Focus on consolidating the dry distribution network and sales force 
to ensure readiness to cater to the envisaged growth in volumes.
	y
Emphasis on growing the modern and general trade channels, 
particularly the organised small and medium entities under general 
trade thereby increasing footprint. 
	y
Focus on further augmenting its portfolio offering.
	y
Expanding presence locally and globally, especially increasing the 
bespoke solutions offered to outlet networks and caterers as well as 
augmenting the recent venture to the Australian market. 

156 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
Supermarkets
	y
Jaykay Marketing Services (Private) Limited (JMSL) 
operates the 'Keells' chain of modern retail outlets 
and the 'Nexus' loyalty programme. 
•	 134 outlets across the island as at 31 March 2024.
•	 ~2.4 million 'Nexus' loyalty card members.
•	 Nine collection centres across the country working 
with ~2,700 active farmers.
•	 Employment for ~6,000 individuals.
	y
The state-of-the-art distribution centre (DC), 
under LogiPark International (Private) Limited (LPI), 
centralising JMSL's offerings across the dry, fresh, and 
chilled categories.
•	 A warehouse area of ~260,000 sq. ft.
•	 Capacity to cater to over ~250 outlets. 
•	 Employment for ~550 individuals.
Office Automation
	y
John Keells Office Automation (JKOA) is the 
authorised distributor for Office Automation and 
IT enabled, world-renowned brands and a market 
leader in providing print solutions for corporates. 
Brands offered include:
•	 Samsung – a range of smartphones, tabs, HTV, and 
digital signage.
•	 Toshiba – a range of black and white, colour range 
of multifunctional printers. 
•	 Asus – commercial series of notebooks and 
desktops.
•	 Other products include laser printers, smart board 
and educational solutions, digital duplicators, cash 
counting machines, receipt and label printers, 
multimedia projectors from a variety of world class 
brands.
New Energy Vehicles
	y
John Keells CG Auto (Private) Limited is the 
authorised distributor of new energy vehicles (NEVs) 
manufactured by BYD Auto Industry Company 
Limited, China.
RETAIL
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
2023/24
2022/23
2021/22
Operational Highlights
Same store sales growth
%
12.3
47.6
12.9
Same store footfall growth
%
12.3
28.3
4.5
Average basket value
%
(0.1)
15.1
8.0
Financial and Manufactured Capital
Revenue
Rs.million
 122,502 
 106,849 
 90,842 
EBITDA
Rs.million
 8,767 
 8,833 
 7,549 
PBT
Rs.million
 2,938 
 558 
 7 
PAT
Rs.million
 2,056 
 1,296 
 (865)
Total assets
Rs.million
 52,103 
 49,929 
 52,476 
Total equity
Rs.million
 5,358 
 3,725 
 3,487 
Total debt 1
Rs.million
 14,687 
 20,510 
 15,342 
Capital employed 2
Rs.million
 31,375 
 34,587 
 29,046 
Natural Capital
Energy consumption 
kWh
 79,540,619  67,104,264  63,859,456 
Energy consumption per operational 
intensity factor
kWh per 
Rs.million
637.37
615.60
701.33
Carbon footprint
MT
 44,118 
 36,359 
 36,230 
Carbon footprint per operational 
intensity factor
MT per 
Rs.million
0.35
0.33
0.40
Water withdrawal 
m3
 287,290 
 309,325 
 282,480 
Water withdrawal per operational 
intensity factor
m3 per 
Rs.million
2.30
2.84
3.10
Volume of hazardous waste generated kg
 101.00 
 421.00 
0
Volume of non hazardous waste 
generated
kg
 4,570,915  3,642,918  3,819,863 
Waste generated per operational 
intensity factor
kg per 
Rs.million
36.63
33.42
41.95
Human Capital
Total Workforce (employees and 
contractors' staff)
No.
7,424
7,703
7,081
EBIT per employee 
Rs.million
1
1
1
Average training per employee
hours
160.76
19.65
22.76
Total Attrition
%
94.9
83.2
101.6
Females employee
%
46
45
48
Total injuries
No.
176
187
137
Social and Relationship Capital
Community Services and Infrastructure 
Projects3
Rs.'000
 15,234
 18,943 
 16,972 
1. 	 Excludes lease liabilities.
2. 	 Includes lease liabilities.
3.	 Only the contribution to John Keells Foundation.
156 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
Contribution to the John Keells Group
39%
16%
5%
38%
Revenue
EBIT
Capital Employed
Carbon Footprint

157
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
External Environment and Operational Review
Macroeconomic Update
	y
The operating environment in the country continued its gradual 
normalisation supported by sustained improvement in the 
country's key macroeconomic indicators. However, disposable 
incomes were negatively impacted, particularly in the first 
half of the year, by the imposition of direct and indirect taxes. 
Based on the statistics of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL), 
consumption expenditure estimates at constant prices in 
CY2023, have contracted due to decreased purchasing power.
 Refer Operating Environment section of this Report for a detailed 
discussion.
Key Policy and Regulatory Highlights
	y
Increase in the value added tax (VAT) rate from 15% to 18%, 
with effect from 1 January 2024.
	y
Removal of mobile phones, notebooks, projectors, smartboards 
and point of sale (POS) solutions from the VAT exemptions list 
from January 2024.  
	y
Import restrictions imposed from CY2020 onwards were lifted 
in three stages during 2023/24. As of October 2023, import 
restrictions on all items were removed, other than motor 
vehicles.
	y
Electricity tariffs for industry sectors were increased, on average, 
by ~40% and ~12%, in February and October 2023, respectively, 
and subsequently revised downwards by ~9% in July 2023, 
in line with the cost reflective pricing mechanism which was 
adopted to reduce the cost of subsidies provided by the 
Government. Tariffs were subsequently revised downwards by 
~18%, on average, in March 2024.
For a detailed discussion, refer the Operating Environment section of 
the report on page 41.
Supermarkets
The Supermarket business witnessed a strong growth in performance 
during the year, driven by a double-digit growth in same store sales. 
The growth in same store sales was driven by an increase in footfall, 
which demonstrates the continued potential for higher penetration of 
certain customer segments. Benefits accruing from various productivity 
and cost efficiency initiatives and supplier negotiations also supported 
overall performance while the business encountered escalating costs, 
particularly with the upward revision of electricity tariffs. 
Key performance indicators pertaining to the Supermarket business:
%
2023/24
2022/23*
Same store footfall growth 
12.3
28.3
Average basket value (ABV) growth 
(0.1)
15.1
Same store sales growth 
12.3
47.6
*Given the pandemic-related disruptions, unprecedented inflation and changes in 
shopping patterns resulting in shifts in frequency, basket items, and purchase patterns 
of customers, the KPIs were distorted for the year – refer page 60 of the JKH Annual 
Report 2022/23.
2023/24 (%)
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Same store footfall growth 
8.8
10.6
15.7
14.4
ABV growth 
8.1
(0.2)
(4.3)
(3.2)
Same store sales growth 
17.6
10.4
10.7
10.7
	y
Growth in same store footfall was driven by both existing and new 
customers. 
•	 Footfall growth was also driven by improved availability of 
items and seasonal sales. The business continued to witness the 
conversion from general trade to modern trade, given the ability 
for modern trade to manage inventory and working capital more 
effectively, ensuring fewer supply chain disruptions. The ability to 
pass on benefits to consumers due to the scale of operations and 
through the 'Nexus' loyalty programme also helped drive footfall.
	y
The ABV is derived based on the weight of purchase (WOP) and the 
retail selling price (RSP), with the WOP and inflation having an inverse 
relationship. 
•	 The inflation recorded in the first quarter of 2023/24 contributed 
towards an increase in the RSP and translated to a growth in the ABV. 
•	 Inflation moderated significantly from the second quarter of 
2023/24 onwards. As a result, the increase in the RSP was relatively 
muted. This marginal increase in the RSP was more than offset by 
the decline in the WOP due to the reduction in spending on non-
essential items, which impacted ABV growth. While the imposition 
of taxes resulted in higher prices, and, therefore, supported the 
RSP, the negative impact of such taxes on consumer disposable 
incomes affected the WOP. The business witnessed an improving 
trend of the WOP from the fourth quarter onwards given the 
recovering consumer sentiment.
	y
While the above factors resulted in a net positive impact on same 
store sales, the initiatives undertaken by the business to drive footfall 
and also provide more value and range for its customers, ensured a 
higher proportion of the spend remained within the 'Keells' outlet 
network. Effective promotional campaigns and investments in 
converting existing standard outlets to extended format outlets 
which offer a greater range of products to consumers were initiatives 
that benefited overall same store sales.  
The relaxation of import restrictions during the year facilitated the 
improved availability of inventory and resulted in minimal supply  
chain-related disruptions. The business further engaged in timely 
supplier negotiations to ensure the availability of inventory at optimum 
price levels whilst significantly mitigating the one-off cost impacts from 
the VAT rate amendments. The business further undertook effective cost 
management initiatives to mitigate the pressure on margins, especially 
given the increase in electricity costs on account of the multiple tariff 
The ability to pass on benefits to consumers due to the scale of operations and through 
the 'Nexus' loyalty programme helped drive footfall.

158 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
RETAIL
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
revisions and to a lesser extent, staff costs. The business is expected to 
see an improvement in energy costs in 2024/25 due to the downward 
revision of electricity tariffs in March 2024, although tariffs are still higher 
than at the beginning of the previous year. 
For a detailed discussion, refer the Outlook and Risks section on page 107.
The ensuing section summarises the initiatives undertaken by the 
Supermarket business to drive performance. 
Product and Process Initiatives
	y
Advanced analytics transformation programme:
•	 During the year under review, identified use cases were fully  
rolled-out with the value capture of most of the initiatives 
exceeding expectations. The pilot projects of other use cases being 
piloted or rolled-out at scale have also demonstrated significant 
value that can be unlocked by translating advanced analytics 
insights into frontline business interventions. 
•	 Use cases related to promotions, pricing, outlet operations, 
marketing and procurement have been rolled-out since CY2019 
across several segments of the business. These initiatives have 
contributed to improved margins, operational efficiencies and 
better product positioning while paving the way for improved 
customer centricity and servicing.
	y
Collection centres:
•	 Expanded sourcing locations to minimise supply chain disruptions, 
enhance the product availability and freshness, and provide 
consumers with better value. 
•	 As a part of these efforts, in April 2023, a fresh produce collection 
centre, with a fully automated vegetable washing line and drying 
machine, was established in Nuwara-Eliya.
	y
Private label penetration:
•	 Increased penetration of the private label range, which is typically 
prices ~10% lower than comparable brands, to provide customers 
with alternative 'value for money' options and wider choice.
•	 The private label portfolio consists of over 320 products spanning 
across 88 categories. The private label brand established its presence 
in new categories such as yoghurt, cleaning products, homeware, 
and frozen ready-to-cook (RTC) meals and re-entered categories 
previously exited on account of macroeconomic challenges. 
•	 A rigorous quality control process which monitors both products 
and the manufacturing environment has been initiated to 
maintain high quality standards.
•	 Private label products accounted for ~5% of revenue in 2023/24 
[2022/23: ~5%].
	y
Sourcing imported products:
•	 Continued with the direct import strategy executed in 2021/22, 
which aims to offer a range of products at affordable price points 
by directly liaising with manufacturers, thereby offering a wider 
selection of choice for customers, at value, by eliminating any 
intermediary costs. 
•	 Representing ~2% of the business's revenue, the imported product 
portfolio includes over ~180 products.
	y
Marketing and promotions:
•	 Conducted two major campaigns during the year:
•	 'Freshness that is Affordable' –to emphasise the quality and 
value offered by 'Keells' to customers, without compromising on 
freshness. 
•	 'Ada Keells Eken Kamu' – an initiative to raise awareness of the 
prepared food offerings available at selected 'Keells' outlets, 
which also drove footfall.
•	 Continued with personalised promotions and other initiatives 
based on customer needs, such as, bank promotions and 'Lower 
than Market Price' items from the fresh category.
	y
Supply chain management:
•	 Several supply-side initiatives were implemented aimed at 
improving product availability and maintaining optimum stock 
levels.
•	 Implemented a bulk purchasing strategy to optimise 
procurement costs and ensure a consistent supply.
•	 Maintained safety stock levels at collection centres and engaged 
in forward buying to ensure timely delivery and minimise 
disruptions due to supplier shortages.
•	 Automated the ordering process via an 'order management 
system'.
	y
Distribution Centre (DC):
•	 The state-of-the-art centralised DC in Kerawalapitiya continued 
to play a vital role in streamlining operations and ensuring 
optimum inventory management across the fresh, dry, and chilled 
categories. 
•	 The expansion of commercial operations and increased efficiencies 
at the DC contributed positively to the performance of the 
Supermarket business in terms of cost effectiveness. 
•	 Growth in efficiencies were driven by the synergies in terms of 
workforce, equipment, transportation and energy on account of 
the flexibility in reallocating resources based on the requirements 
under each of the separate categories. 
Distribution Centre in Kerawalapitiya.

159
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
	y
The 'Instore Service' project was initiated during the year to enhance 
the customer service experience at outlets which aims to deliver 
consistent standards. The project aims to ensure staff availability at 
service counters and improved customer service through pleasant 
interactions, attentiveness and the accuracy of processing by staff. 
	y
Other digitisation initiatives:
•	 Commenced the roll-out for digital applications such as 'Last Mile 
Delivery' and 'Keells Rider App' which facilitated the efficiency in 
logistics.
•	 Digitalised the marketing technology stack and eco-system, which 
provided staff with efficient tools for accessing accurate and timely 
information.
Outlet Expansion
Although the expansion of the 'Keells' outlet network was moderate during 
the first half of the year under review, given the easing of construction costs 
and the normalisation of the macroeconomic environment in the country, 
the business commenced outlet expansions on a case-by-case basis. Four 
new outlets were opened during the year, whilst one outlet was closed, 
bringing the total count to 134 outlets as at 31 March 2024. 
In expanding its brand and outlet network, the business leverages 
on a standard and an extended format depending on the income 
distribution levels of the locality and the maturity of the market and 
competitive dynamics. In line with its brand expansion plans, four outlets 
were upgraded to the 'iconic' format during the year under review. This 
concept for select 'Keells' outlets, is aimed at enhancing the overall 
customer experience through best-in-class retail technological solutions, 
a wider offering, particularly in the prepared food space and premium 
range, and improved ambience. Despite the additional investment 
associated with the conversion of the standard format outlets to 
the extended format, the payback on these investments based on 
incremental performance has been attractive. 
Features of 'Iconic' outlets:
200+ premium items
~7,500 stock keeping units (SKUs)
'Scan & Go' technology
Self-checkout capability
Digital automated price tags
Self-weighing scale
Self-ordering kiosks for food
'Kafe' serving coffee, snacks and other beverages 
Chef's counter serving ready-to-eat meals
Make your own pizza counter
Product
Technology
Food and Beverages 
Offerings at 'Keells' 'iconic' format.
	y
Bronze Award – 'Best search engine optimisation (SEO)/ search 
engine marketing (SEM) Campaign' at SLIM Digis 2.3.
	y
One of Sri Lanka's 'Most Outstanding Women Friendly 
Workplaces' by Chartered Institute of Management 
Accountants (CIMA) and Satyn Magazine.
	y
First runner up in the 'Large Scale Enterprise' Category at the 
National Supply Chain Excellence Awards 2023 organised by 
the Institute of Supply and Materials Management (ISMM) in 
collaboration with the Ministry of Industries and Industrial 
Development Board.
	y
'Most Visible Brand Online' by the Asia Pacific Institute of Digital 
Marketing.
AWARDS
The 'Keells' online store continued to be patronised by its loyal customer 
base recording ~8,000 monthly orders, on average.
Office Automation 
The Office Automation business witnessed a recovery in volumes in line 
with the gradual easing of inflation and interest rates during the financial 
year. The relaxation of import restrictions on non-essential items such as 
mobile phones and laptops during the second half of the year further 
supported volume growth. The removal of mobile phones from the VAT 
exemptions list, coupled with the simultaneous increase in VAT from 15% 
to 18%, effective 1 January 2024, contributed to an increase in selling 
prices which had a negative impact on the recovery of volume growth. 
The copier and printer business segments were impacted by the rising 
costs of usage and maintenance. 
Despite the highly competitive landscape of the mobile phone 
market characterised by low-price product offerings with attractive 
specifications, the business successfully launched new products and 
remained competitive during the year. Digitisation initiatives were  
rolled-out during the year under review focusing on augmenting 
automation and reporting tools to facilitate data-driven decision-making 
and improved efficiency.
	y
'Quality Service Campaign' award by Toshiba Tec - Singapore.
AWARDS

160 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
New Energy Vehicles
In November 2023, JKH partnered with BYD Auto Industry Company 
Limited, the world's leading manufacturer of new energy vehicles (NEVs), 
to provide cutting-edge and eco-friendly vehicles to the Sri Lankan 
market. This new business, John Keells CG Auto (Private) Limited, a joint 
venture between JKH and Chaudhary Group, Nepal, will operate under 
the Retail industry group considering its alignment with the business 
and potential synergies. The prospect for contributing towards a more 
environmentally friendly and energy efficient alternative, which will 
support the country, is in alignment with the Group's sustainability 
agenda. For reporting purposes, John Keells CG Auto (Private) Limited 
will be accounted as an equity accounted investee.
BYD Auto Industry Company Limited, headquartered in China, is 
renowned globally for its operations in the NEV sector. NEVs represent 
a growing trend in the automotive industry. Leveraging BYD's expertise 
and technological advancements, the new venture will focus on 
importing, distributing and providing after sales services for BYD 
vehicles in the Sri Lankan automobile market. Optimising the 'Keells' 
outlet network and other locations of the Group's businesses across 
the country will generate synergies, enabling the creation of the 
necessary eco-system required for the NEV business. Capital investment 
requirements are anticipated to be minimal initially, with investments 
primarily allocated for the development of showrooms, service stations 
and charging infrastructure. 
Financial Performance Review
Income Statement Indicators  
Rs.million
2023/24
2022/23
%
Revenue
Supermarkets 
110,977 
99,773 
11
Office Automation
11,525 
7,076 
63
New Energy Vehicles 
-
-
-
Total
122,502 
106,849 
15
EBITDA* 
Supermarkets 
7,644 
7,504 
2
Office Automation
1,147 
1,328 
(14)
New Energy Vehicles
(24)
-
-
Total
8,767 
8,832 
(1)
PBT **
Supermarkets 
1,680 
1,139
47
Office Automation
1,283 
(581)
321
New Energy Vehicles
(24)
-
-
Total 
2,938 
558
427
*EBITDA includes interest income and the share of results of equity accounted investees 
which is based on the share of profit after tax but excludes all impacts from foreign 
currency exchange gains and losses (other than for equity accounted investees), to 
demonstrate the underlying cash operational performance of businesses.
**Share of results of equity accounted investees are shown net of all taxes.
Supermarkets
The ensuing discussion aims to provide an insight to the performance of 
the business across the quarters. 
2023/24
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Same store sales (%)
17.6
10.4
10.7
10.7
Revenue (Rs.million)
27,614
27,248
28,756
27,358
Revenue growth (%)
13
12
11
9
EBITDA (Rs.million)
1,740
1,750
1,997
2,158
EBITDA growth (%)
(7)
5
1
9
EBITDA margin (%)
6.3
6.4
6.9
7.9
	y
As outlined in the External Environment and Operational Review, the 
Supermarket business recorded a strong performance in revenue, 
driven by double-digit growth in same store sales which, in turn, was 
driven by a sustained increase in footfall.  
	y
Despite the increase in revenue, EBITDA was offset to an extent by 
the significant cost escalations in operations on account of electricity 
costs due to the upward revision of tariffs, higher advertising and 
promotional expenses and to a lesser extent staff costs.
	y
Further, during the first half of the financial year, margins were 
impacted by the imposition of the social security contribution levy 
(SSCL), which came into effect from October 2022. SSCL is a  
revenue-based tax similar to the nation building tax in force a few 
years ago, where the retail industry is subject to SSCL at half of the 
applicable rate. The business had to absorb the impact of the SSCL 
although measures were undertaken to mitigate its full impact. 
RETAIL
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
JKH partnership with BYD Auto Industry Company Limited.

161
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
	y
Despite the above mentioned cost increases, the Supermarket 
business sustained EBITDA margins throughout the year by 
optimising logistics efficiencies, providing affordable alternatives to 
drive higher revenue, engaging in timely supplier negotiations and 
implementing data-led initiatives to improve margins.
	y
The PBT of the Supermarket business significantly improved due to a 
decrease in finance expenses, on account of lower interest rates and 
reduced borrowings given the generation of higher cash flows and 
the normalisation of working capital and operational cycles.
Office Automation
	y
The Office Automation business recorded strong growth in revenue 
driven by the increase in mobile phone volumes, subsequent to the 
relaxation of import restrictions on non-essential items during the 
second half of the year.
	y
Similar to the Supermarket business, EBITDA margins were also 
impacted by an increase in staff costs and distribution-related costs 
and the imposition of the SSCL. 
	y
The PBT of the business recorded an increase on account of 
exchange gains emanating from the difference between the costing 
rate of products and the settlement of bills given the appreciation of 
the Rupee towards the end of the year. 
	y
Finance expenses recorded a significant decrease on account of the 
lower interest rates and reduction of debt levels through settlements 
and a normalising of working capital requirements.
New Energy Vehicles 
	y
As detailed in the Operational Review, with the incorporation of John 
Keells CG Auto (Private) Limited, the business has commenced initial 
groundwork for the impending commencement of operations of the 
New Energy Vehicle business. For reporting purposes, John Keells 
CG Auto (Private) Limited will be accounted as an equity accounted 
investee. 
The fair value gains and losses on investment property pertaining to the 
Supermarket business was recorded at Rs.4.9 million. Accordingly, the 
recurring EBITDA of the industry group, excluding the fair value gains 
and losses on investment property amounted to Rs.8.76 billion [2022/23: 
Rs.8.78 billion].
Balance Sheet Indicators
Rs.million
2023/24
2022/23
%
Assets
Supermarkets 
            47,421 
46,566
2
Office Automation
4,681
3,364
39
Total
52,102
49,930
4
Debt*
Supermarkets 
12,660 
17,346
(27)
Office Automation
2,027 
3,164
(36)
Total
14,687 
20,510
(28)
*Excludes lease liabilities.
Supermarkets
	y
The growth in the asset base was driven by the increase in outlets 
and an increase in cash.  
	y
The depreciation and amortisation expenses of the business also 
recorded an increase on the back of the above mentioned increase in 
the asset base. 
	y
The significant decrease in debt of the Supermarket business was 
primarily on account of repayment of debts utilising cash generated 
through operations, the normalising of working capital requirements 
and relatively low capital expenditure during the year.  
	y
As at 31 March 2024, lease liabilities stood at Rs.11.19 billion, an 
8% increase against the Rs.10.32 billion recorded in 2022/23. Total 
debt including leases stood at Rs.23.85 billion as at 31 March 2024 
[2022/23: Rs.27.67 billion].
Office Automation 
	y
The increase in the asset base was primarily due to an increase in 
inventory and trade and other receivables, reflecting the resumption 
of normalised operations.   
	y
The Office Automation business witnessed a significant reduction 
in bank overdrafts during the year under review due to decreased 
working capital requirements and the repayment of debt from cash 
generated from operations.
Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) Analysis
ROCE
(%)
=
EBIT 
margin 
(%)
x
Asset 
turnover
x
Capital 
structure 
leverage
2023/24
16.6
4.5
2.40
1.55
2022/23 
17.8 
5.3 
2.09 
1.61
	y
The decline in the ROCE in the Retail industry group was mainly due 
to the Supermarket business.
	y
As outlined above, the higher revenue of the Supermarket business 
resulted in an increase in the asset turnover ratio whilst the increase 
in operating costs impacted EBIT margins. 
	y
The decline in the capital structure leverage is on account of the 
Supermarket business recording a significant decline in debt on 
account of normalised working capital cycles during the year.

162 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
Outlook and Risks
The strong performance of the Supermarket business witnessed in 
2023/24 is envisaged to continue going forward, primarily driven by a 
growth in footfall driven by higher modern trade participation and the 
initiatives undertaken by 'Keells' to attract customers. While there has 
been a dampening of consumer discretionary spending in recent years, 
the stabilisation of the economy in combination with the continued 
demand for essential items is anticipated to support the growth of the 
business, similar to the trends observed in the past few quarters. In this 
light, basket values are likely to recover as the weight of purchase – 
the number of items purchased in a basket – recovers in line with the 
recovery of the economy and improving consumer sentiment.  
The performance of the Office Automation business is anticipated to 
continue its recovery in tandem with the stabilisation of the economy. The 
Group is optimistic about the potential opportunity for new energy vehicles 
(NEV) in Sri Lanka, and envisages the NEV business to be a key driver of 
growth to the industry group, once the business commences operations. 
Key risks, trends and opportunities relevant to the industry group:
Immediate to Short-Term
Supermarkets
Demand and supply dynamics and shopping trends:
	y
Anticipates sustained consumer spend given the nature of the 
business, as consumer baskets primarily consist of essential goods, 
personal care products, and everyday household items.
	y
Witnessed a sustained increase in footfall during the year 
under review, despite the challenging operating environment 
demonstrating the continued potential for higher penetration in 
certain customer segments. This is envisaged to continue, with 
performance driven primarily by a growth in footfall in the  
short-term. 
	y
Although there has been a decrease in demand for certain items as 
a result of the impact on consumer spending and price sensitivity, 
particularly for non-essential and luxury products, this is likely to be 
balanced by shifts in consumer preferences towards more affordable 
alternatives within consumer shopping baskets in line with trends 
witnessed in the previous two years.
•	 The increase in value added tax (VAT) from 15% to 18% effective 
1 January 2024, coupled with the removal of VAT exemptions on 
several items such as dairy, tea, coconut, oil and eggs has had 
a considerable impact on prices. This may continue to impact 
spending on non-essential items in the backdrop of the increase in 
direct taxes in the prior year. 
	y
The conversion from general trade to modern trade is also expected 
to continue, given the ability of modern trade outlets to ensure 
better availability and fewer disruptions through better management 
of its inventory and working capital. The ability to pass on benefits to 
customers stemming from economies of scale is also a key catalyst 
for growth in modern trade. 
	y
The private label portfolio will be further diversified across product 
tiers, with ventures already made into new categories as well as 
the reinstatement of certain categories which were previously 
discontinued due to economic challenges. The private label portfolio 
aims to provide customers with better choice and 'value for money', 
both of which are important decision drivers for consumers, 
particularly at this juncture.
	y
Emphasis will be placed on leveraging on its direct import strategy 
with the aim of providing its customer products at the best possible 
value, with consistent supply, thereby also aiding footfall to outlets.
Costs, margins and supply chain management:
	y
The state-of-the-art distribution centre (DC) is an integral part of 
the operations of the business as it is pivotal in managing supply 
chain disruptions and ensuring the outlets are supplied in the most 
optimum and efficient manner. The DC is expected to significantly 
contribute to process and operational efficiencies, enabling better 
visibility of the supply chain and reducing stock holding costs.
	y
The shift in weather patterns coupled with the severity of extreme 
weather conditions, may pose significant challenges to the supply of 
fresh produce. The business will continue to monitor such changes in 
a bid to proactively respond and manage the fresh inventory to the 
extent possible.
RETAIL
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
	y
Expansion of the Private label range of the Supermarket 
business, given the affordable, value-for-money proposition 
	y
Sustained demand witnessed for offerings provided through 
the extended format outlets of the Supermarket business
	y
Demand for online shopping
	y
Shift in consumer behaviour towards more energy efficient 
alternatives
•	 Increase in demand for office automation products powered 
using renewable energy 
•	 Higher demand for energy-efficient vehicles
	y
Macroeconomic and political environment* 
•	 Changes in regulatory environment
	y
Supply chain disruptions*
	y
Financial exposure*, in particular exchange rate volatility
	y
Climate risks*
•	 Increasingly volatile weather patterns impacting crops and 
fresh produce
	y
Global competitiveness* and evolving preferences
•	 Strong competition at the entry-level market for Office 
Automation 
	y
Human resources and talent management*
	y
Environment and health & safety* 
	y
Information technology*
	y
Reputation and brand image*
Trends and Opportunities
Risks
*Identified as a risk across the Group through the Group's Enterprise Risk Management 
framework. Refer Key Risks section under Outlook and Risks for a detailed discussion.

163
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
	y
The recent reduction in electricity tariffs will further benefit the 
business in the short-term. Power and energy costs remains a key 
components of the business's cost structure. 
	y
The continued reduction in inflationary pressures and interest rates 
is expected to aid the business in managing its costs and retaining 
steady margins going forward. 
	y
Emphasis will also be placed on cost optimisation and working 
capital management.
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
FY20
FY21
FY22
FY23
FY24
Q1
Q4
Q3
Q2
Q1
Q4
Q3
Q2
EBITDA Margin
PBT Margin
Margins of the Supermarket Business 
Margins of the Supermarket Business 
(%)
(%)
Outlet expansion:
	y
Although investment per outlet has seen a significant increase, the 
business has also experienced substantial revenue growth, which 
will have a positive influence on the feasibility studies conducted 
for potential new outlets in furtherance of its selective expansion 
strategy. Additionally, construction costs are anticipated to gradually 
reduce with the stabilisation of the economy. 
	y
The business will continue to carefully evaluate and monitor the 
expansion of its outlet footprint in the short-term to ensure that 
expected returns are achieved, considering the investment required 
for each outlet. 
	y
Mature outlets of its footprint, which have the ability to scale up with 
an expanded offering, will also be identified and upgraded.
Determining whether an outlet should be Standard or Extended  
The Supermarket business leverages on a standard or extended 
format depending on the maturity of the market. The concept of 
the extended format for select 'Keells' outlets, is aimed at enhancing 
the overall customer experience through best-in-class retail 
technological solutions and a wider offering. 
Refer Page 159 for offerings. 
The selection of an extended format for outlets typically depends 
on the level of development in a particular area. In most cases, 
businesses identify existing outlets that can expand their offerings 
to accommodate a larger range of products and services. However, 
there are occasional situations where an outlet with an extended 
format is opened immediately, without first having an existing outlet 
to build upon.
It is pertinent to note that despite the additional investment 
associated with the conversion of the standard format outlet to 
the extended format, the payback on these investments based on 
incremental performance is attractive.
Managing stakeholders:
	y
The business will continue to prioritise transparent communication 
with customers and active engagement with suppliers and other 
stakeholders to ensure a continually functioning supply chain. 
	y
The high attrition in the business, which is an industry norm, is a key 
focus area and various interventions to attract and retain staff will be 
rolled-out, including in ensuring a diverse workforce. 
Advanced analytics:
	y
The business will continue with the development and 
implementation of advanced analytics use cases in order to foster 
data-driven decision-making. 
	y
The preliminary results of the use cases already rolled-out, focusing 
on aspects such as promotion effectiveness, range optimisation, and 
marketing outreach, are promising and expected to meaningfully 
contribute towards enhanced performance and driving customer 
intimacy through a deeper understanding of customer requirements.
Office Automation
	y
The performance of the Office Automation business is envisaged to 
continue its recovery in tandem with the improvement in economic 
conditions. 
	y
Key downside risks stem from lacklustre growth in consumer 
discretionary spending, which is lower than expectations, which 
may have implications on the demand for mobile phones and office 
automation products.
	y
Parallel imported products could further increase the already 
significant share of the mobile sales market, unless regulated, which 
have implications on Government revenue and performance of the 
formal market.
New Energy Vehicles (NEV)
	y
The NEV business aims to capitalise on the growing demand for 
NEVs in the automative industry. Leveraging BYD's expertise and 
technological advancements, the new venture will import and 
distribute BYD vehicles in the Sri Lankan automobile market.
	y
Focus is also being placed on creating the necessary eco-system 
required for the NEV business, by optimising the 'Keells' outlet network 
and other locations of the Group's businesses across the country. 
Discussions and preparations under underway with key stakeholders 
on setting up the preliminary requirements to commence operating, 
once the import restrictions on passenger vehicles are eased. 
	y
Capital investment requirements are anticipated to be minimal 
initially, with investments primarily allocated for the development of 
showrooms and service stations.
	y
The Government has appointed a committee to evaluate the case to 
lift import restrictions imposed on vehicles. The Ministry of Finance 
has indicated that plans are underway to ease vehicle import 
restrictions, subject to conditions, by end-2024/early-2025. As a part 
of this phased relaxation, the Government commenced providing 
exemptions in CY2023 for sectors such as health and tourism.

164 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
Prospects for the modern trade industry in Sri Lanka is promising, 
given the low penetration of modern trade outlets in the country. 
Medium to Long-Term
Supermarkets
Prospects for the modern trade industry in Sri Lanka remain promising, 
given the low penetration of modern trade outlets in the country, 
growth expectations for consumer demand and the steady conversion 
from general trade to modern trade driven by demand for better quality, 
convenience and 'value for money' by consumers. The Supermarket 
business is uniquely positioned to capitalise on this opportunity by 
leveraging on its high brand equity.
Source: Retail and shopper trends in the Asia Pacific, AC Nielsen
Source: Company Analysis
The strategic priorities of the Supermarket business:
	y
Differentiating the shopping experience for its customers through 
its 'fresh' promise, service excellence and quality within five activity 
pillars; product, price, place, people and the customer. 
	y
Continually expanding its footprint to capitalise on the envisaged 
growth of the modern trade industry given its low density and 
penetration levels. Although online sales contribution is expected 
to increase, consumer behaviour suggests an inclination to shop at 
physical stores, which will continue to drive growth looking further 
ahead.
•	 Expansion in the medium-term would be aimed at both urban 
and suburban areas, timing such expansion plans based on the 
macroeconomic landscape and the maturity of these markets. 
•	 Emphasis will primarily be on expansion through the standard 
outlet format, which optimises capital expenditure and operational 
costs until such time these earmarked markets mature. The 
business will also evaluate opportunities to grow the extended 
outlet format. 
•	 Key challenges include securing lease of land plots in prime 
locations which are in conformity with brand specifications. 
	y
Further augmenting the DC in Kerawalapitiya with the business's 
expansion plans, particularly given its ability to cater to the number 
of outlets well beyond the medium-term. As outlined above, the 
operation of the DC is expected to result in significant supply chain 
efficiencies, particularly given the centralisation of almost the entirety 
of the dry and fresh range of the current modern trade offering. 
	y
The business will continue to focus on retaining its labour force by 
augmenting its recruitment processes, empowering these individuals 
and focusing on the employer brand. 
	y
Continued emphasis will also be placed on higher private label 
penetration, through diversification across product tiers, in order to 
enhance customer choice and drive margins. 
Office Automation 
Looking beyond the short-term challenges, John Keells Office 
Automation (JKOA) remains confident of the underlying demand for 
office automation solutions and smart mobile phones which is expected 
to be driven by increasing commercial activity within the country and 
an improvement in business sentiment. As evident from the results prior 
to Sri Lanka's external financing crisis, the business has the potential to 
grow significantly on the back of rapid urbanisation. 
The business will continue to:
	y
Expand its presence in the market in line with the envisaged 
growth, whilst leveraging on its portfolio of world-class brands and 
distribution network. 
	y
Leverage on its brand equity to ensure a continued supply of mobile 
phones into the market at varying price points, aimed at different 
market segments, thereby strengthening its position in the mobile 
phone market. 
	y
Place emphasis on improving productivity and efficiency in its 
sales and aftercare operations to ensure high quality customer 
service. Focus will also be placed on a range of initiatives aimed at 
digitising the supply chain to consolidate its operations and improve 
productivity.
The Supermarket business will continue to focus on its 'fresh' promise.
RETAIL
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
Sri Lanka
Thailand
Taiwan
Hong Kong
Malaysia
Singapore
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
40
17
43
48
49
70
Modern Retail Penetration
Modern Retail Penetration
(%)
(%)
0
30
60
90
120
150
30.0
21.0
7.3
4.7
4.5
3.7
3.6
3.4
3.0
2.5
1.9
0.9
47.0
132.0
India
Vietnam
Sri Lanka
Philippines
Indonesia
Thailand
Malaysia
Singapore
China
Hong Kong
Australia
New Zealand
Taiwan
Korea
Modern Trade Density
Modern Trade Density
Population (’000) per Store
Population (’000) per Store

165
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Global electric vehicle sales have recorded steady upward growth 
from 2010 to 2022 and are projected to boom during the second 
half of the ensuing decade
*Electric vehicle sales include cars, buses, trucks and vans 
Source: International Energy Agency (IEA): Global EV Data Explorer
	y
The Group's partnership with BYD Auto Industry Company Limited, 
the world's leading manufacturer of new energy vehicles (NEV), to 
provide cutting-edge and eco-friendly vehicles to the Sri Lankan 
market, is expected to be the next engine of growth for the  
industry group. 
	y
BYD has achieved remarkable expertise in core technologies of the 
entire industrial chain of NEV, including batteries, electric motors, 
and electronic controllers. BYD also stands out as the sole producer 
of NEV globally that has independently developed its powertrain 
systems, power batteries, drive motors, and motor controller systems. 
	y
This collaboration enables the Group to offer a range of advanced, 
eco-friendly passenger vehicles in Sri Lanka, furthering the Group's 
mission to integrate eco-conscious with diverse lifestyles and making 
'electric vehicles' the 'essential vehicle' in people's daily lives. The 
prospect for contributing towards a more environmentally friendly 
and energy efficient alternative, which will support the country, is in 
alignment with the Group's sustainability agenda.
New Energy Vehicles
The Group is confident of the opportunity for growth in electric vehicle 
sales as evident by the performance of the industry since 2010. 
0
10
20
30
40
50
CY10
CY11
CY12
CY13
CY14
CY15
CY16
CY17
CY18
CY19
CY20
CY21
CY22
CY25
CY30
Worldwide Electric Vehicle Sales*
Worldwide Electric Vehicle Sales*
(Millions)
(Millions)

166 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts
City of Dreams Sri Lanka*
The first fully-fledged integrated resort in the whole of 
South Asia.
	y
'Cinnamon Life', a luxurious 687-key hotel which 
includes 3 ballrooms, 7 meeting rooms, an exhibition 
hall and a conference hall managed by Cinnamon 
Hotel Management Limited.
	y
'Nuwa', a 113-key ultra high-end luxury-standard hotel, 
managed by Melco Resorts & Entertainment (Melco).
	y
~500,000 sq. ft. retail and entertainment space.
	y
Lease of 180,000 sq. ft. for a luxury-standard casino 
operated by Melco Resorts and Entertainment. 
Colombo Hotels 
	y
Two luxury star class hotels:
•	 'Cinnamon Grand Colombo' - 501 rooms.
•	 'Cinnamon Lakeside Colombo' - 346 rooms.
	y
'Cinnamon Red Colombo', a select service hotel in 
Colombo - 243 rooms.
	y
24 restaurants across the three properties.
Sri Lankan Resorts
Resorts spread across prime tourism locations in Sri Lanka, 
leveraging on the natural diversity of the country. 
	y
8 resort hotels.
	y
1,022 rooms.
Maldivian Resorts
Resorts located across the Maldives offering unique 
experiences. 
	y
4 resort hotels. 
	y
454 rooms.
*'City of Dreams Sri Lanka' was previously branded as 'Cinnamon 
Life Integrated Resort'. 'The two residential apartment towers and 
the office tower within these precincts are captured under the 
Property industry group review.
Hotel Management 
	y
Cinnamon Hotel Management Limited (CHML), the 
hotel management arm of the Leisure industry group.
Destination Management
	y
Two destination management companies in  
Sri Lanka:
•	 Walkers Tours 	                 •   Whittall Boustead Travel
LEISURE
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
2023/24
2022/23
2021/22
Operational Highlights
Colombo Hotels 1 - ARR
USD
78
64
70
	
              Occupancy
%
60
42
29
Sri Lankan Resorts - ARR
USD
79
65
78
	
               Occupancy
%
68
41
32
Maldivian Resorts - ARR 2
USD
275
255
272
	
              Occupancy
%
86
88
75
Financial and Manufactured Capital
Revenue 3
Rs.million
 48,167 
 39,859 
 18,962 
EBITDA
Rs.million
 9,157 
 8,560 
 3,890 
PBT
Rs.million
 3,411 
 (430)
 (1,281)
PAT
Rs.million
 2,715 
 (354)
 (1,302)
Total assets
Rs.million
 375,724 
 364,081 
 121,567 
Total equity
Rs.million
 243,741 
 220,207 
 59,539 
Total debt 4
Rs.million
 90,826 
 102,439 
 28,634 
Capital employed 5
Rs.million
 354,117 
 345,455 
 110,782 
Natural Capital
Energy consumption 
kWh
 52,201,077  47,783,233  43,000,422 
Energy consumption per operational 
intensity factor
kWh per 
Rs.million
1,014.78
1,110.39
2,088.01
Carbon footprint
MT
 40,780 
 37,285 
 32,018 
Carbon footprint per operational 
intensity factor
MT per 
Rs.million
0.79
0.87
1.55
Water withdrawal 
m3
 1,141,711  1,033,312 
 793,025 
Water withdrawal per operational 
intensity factor
m3 per 
Rs.million
22.19
24.01
38.51
Volume of hazardous waste generated kg
 3,012 
 2,918 
 12,803 
Volume of non hazardous waste 
generated
kg
 2,792,065  2,876,753  2,208,097 
Waste generated per operational 
intensity factor
kg per 
Rs.million
54.34
66.92
107.84
Human Capital
Total Workforce (employees and 
contractors' staff)
No.
5,042
6,280
5,732
EBIT per employee 
Rs.million
1
1
0
Average training per employee
hours
61.08
45.42
41.19
Total Attrition
%
27.8
24.2
23.1
Females employee
%
16.3
15.1
12.9
Total injuries
No.
54
27
21
Social and Relationship Capital
Community Services and Infrastructure 
Projects 6
Rs.'000
 15,076
 -   
 974 
1.	 Both Occupancy and ARRs exclude 'Cinnamon Red Colombo'.
2.	 Net of green tax and allocation (F&B charge).
3.	 Revenue is inclusive of the Group's share of equity accounted investees.
4.	 Excludes lease liabilities.
5.	 For equity accounted investees, capital employed is representative of the Group's equity investment in 
these companies. This is inclusive of lease liabilities.
6.	 Only the contribution to John Keells Foundation.
166 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
Contribution to the John Keells Group
15%
10%
57%
35%
Revenue
EBIT
Capital Employed
Carbon Footprint

167
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
External Environment and Operational Review
Macroeconomic Update – Sri Lanka 
	y
Sri Lanka's cumulative tourist arrivals for the calendar year 2023 
reached close to 1.5 million arrivals, broadly in line with the target of 
the Sri Lanka Tourism Development Authority (SLTDA). Arrivals for 
the month of December 2023 crossed 200,000 for the first time since 
CY2019, and the momentum was sustained in the first quarter of 
CY2024, as illustrated below. The financial year 2023/24, witnessed 
the strongest winter season since the Covid-19 pandemic.  
	y
Although below pre-pandemic and the peak levels in CY2018, arrivals 
are expected to be over the target of 2.3 million for CY2024, facilitated 
by the increased air connectivity to the country and the anticipated 
commencement of a concerted destination marketing campaign.  
•	 Tourist arrivals to Sri Lanka stood at 1,487,303 for CY2023, 
marking a twofold increase against the previous year [CY2022: 
719,978 arrivals]. 
•	 Total arrivals from January to April 2024 crossed over 784,000, 
which is ~90% of the arrivals recorded in the same period of 
CY2018. 
•	 Key source markets driving arrivals during CY2023 were India, 
followed by Russia, the United Kingdom and Germany.
•	 For 2023/24, tourist arrivals stood at 1,787,408, against the 
770,323 arrivals recorded in 2022/23.
0
50
100
150
200
250
Arrivals  (’000)
Tourist Arrivals to Sri Lanka
103
208
108
125
218
209
105
210
149
83
100
143
112
109
151
CY23
CY24
136
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
Source: Sri Lanka Tourist Board
	y
Flight connectivity to Sri Lanka has improved from pre-pandemic 
levels with some carriers further increasing the number of flight 
frequencies. A total of 42 airlines operated in Sri Lanka prior to 
the pandemic, and in CY2023 the total airlines operating in Sri 
Lanka reached pre-pandemic levels. The improved connectivity 
and higher frequencies of airlines operating to the country, can 
significantly boost arrivals by improving capacity and possibly 
reducing the cost of travel as well. 
	y
The industry recorded total tourism earnings of USD 2.07 billion in 
CY2023 [CY2022: USD 1.14 billion].
	y
Hotel room pipeline of Colombo:
•	 In April 2024, the ITC Hotel Group, India, opened 'ITC Ratnadipa' 
in Colombo, a luxury five-star hotel featuring 352 rooms.
•	 The 687 room hotel at the 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka' and the 345 
room 'InterContinental' hotel are due to be opened in 2024/25. 
The 113 room ultra high-end luxury-standard hotel at the 'City of 
Dreams Sri Lanka' is due to be opened in mid-2025.
Key Policy and Regulatory Highlights 
	y
The value added tax (VAT) rate was increased from 15% to 18% 
with effect from 1 January 2024.
	y
SLTDA published an Extraordinary Gazette stipulating the minimum 
room rates (MRRs) to be charged by tourist hotels located within the 
limits of the Colombo Municipal Council, effective from 1 October 2023.
•	 Rates (excluding service charges and taxes) based on 
establishment:
•	 5-star tourist hotels – USD 100
•	 4-star tourist hotels – USD 75
•	 3-star tourist hotels – USD 50
•	 2-star tourist hotels – USD 35
•	 1-star tourist hotels – USD 20
As per the Minister of Tourism, the MRR is expected to be removed 
from 31 May 2024.
	y
Electricity tariffs for industry sectors were increased, on average, by 
~40% and ~12%, in February and October 2023, respectively, and 
subsequently revised downwards by ~9% in July 2023, in line with the 
cost reflective pricing mechanism that was adopted to reduce the cost 
of subsidies provided by the Government. Tariffs were subsequently 
revised downwards by ~18%, on average, in March 2024.
Destination recognition for Sri Lanka 
	y
Listed as one of the '10 Most Popular Solo Travel Destinations For 
2024' by Forbes Magazine.
	y
'Pekoe Trail' was listed as the National Geographic's best coveted 
'Best of the World for 2024' and recognised by the British Guild of 
Travel Writers at the International Awards UK.
	y
Recognised as one of the best destinations to travel to in 2023 and 
as one of the best tourist hotspots by The Independent.
	y
Ranked among the 'Top 24 Countries to Travel in 2023' by Travel Triangle.
Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts
The tourism industry in Sri Lanka witnessed a strong recovery during 
the year under review, driven by a sustained growth momentum in 
tourist arrivals and the normalising of the economy post the multitude 
of challenges faced over the past four consecutive years. Sri Lanka's 
cumulative tourist arrivals for CY2023 reached close to 1.5 million, 
broadly in line with the SLTDA arrival target. Arrivals for each of the 
months from December 2023 – March 2024 crossed 200,000 for the 
first time since 2019, recording the strongest winter season since the 
pandemic. 
Despite the strengthening of the Rupee towards the latter part of the 
year, Sri Lanka continues to be a relatively cost-effective tourist destination 
for travellers given that the value of the Rupee is still much lower in 
comparison with the rate a few years ago coupled with value proposition 
of its diverse landscape and unique offerings which has helped rank 
Sri Lanka as one of the top tourism destinations in the world. With 
international tourism levels expected to exceed pre-pandemic levels in 
CY2024, as per the United Nations World Tourism Organisation, Sri Lanka's 
arrivals are expected to sustain the growth momentum witnessed in 2023. 
In line with the industry, the Sri Lankan leisure businesses of the Group 
witnessed an encouraging recovery categorised by increased occupancies 
and ARRs across most properties, especially during the winter season. 

168 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
LEISURE
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
'City of Dreams Sri Lanka'
Please refer the special report 
on 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka' 
on page 171.
Colombo Hotels
2023/24
2023/24 2022/23
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Average Room Rate 
(USD)
70
69
88
84
78
64
Occupancy (%)
49
67
57
67
60
42
Note: 
•	 Both average room rates (ARRs) and occupancy excludes 'Cinnamon Red Colombo'.
•	 The business operated only 242 rooms of 'Cinnamon Grand Colombo' during the 
year, and the indicators reflected above are on a base of 242 operational rooms.
During the year, margins were impacted by higher staff costs due to 
increases in salaries and enhanced levels of operations in comparison 
to the previous year. The significant rise in electricity costs due to the 
increase in electricity tariffs also negatively impacted margins. The 
margins will benefit from an improvement in energy costs in 2024/25 
due to the downward revision of electricity tariffs. It should be noted 
that, margins are tracking towards peak levels in 2018/19, supported by 
improved rates and occupancies. 
For a detailed discussion, refer the Outlook and Risks section of the report  
on page 107.
	y
'Cinnamon Grand Colombo' received Gold for the 'Leading Food 
and Beverage Hotel of South Asia 2023' at the South Asia Travel 
Awards (SATA) 2023.
AWARDS
Sri Lankan Resorts 
Similar to the Colombo Hotels segment, the Sri Lankan Resorts segment 
recorded a significant improvement in performance, with an increase 
in occupancies and room rates across properties, on the back of a 
sustained recovery in tourist arrivals to the country. The beach resorts, in 
particular, recorded an encouraging performance. Revenue per available 
room (RevPAR) improved in line with the growth in occupancies.
Sri Lankan Resorts
2023/24
2023/24 2022/23
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Average Room Rate 
(USD)
59
62
80
106
79
65
Occupancy (%)
55
71
66
81
68
41
Similar to the Colombo Hotels segment, the Sri Lankan Resorts faced 
pressure on margins due to increases in staff and electricity costs. 
However, in line with the increase in arrivals, which resulted in higher 
occupancies and ARRs, margins recorded a significant improvement in 
the second half of the year.
'City of Dreams Sri Lanka'.
“The Colombo Hotels segment recorded a strong 
improvement in performance, with an increase in 
both occupancy and room rates on the back of a 
sustained recovery in tourist arrivals to the country.”
Colombo Hotels 
The Colombo Hotels segment recorded a strong improvement in 
performance, with an increase in both occupancy and room rates on 
the back of a sustained recovery in tourist arrivals to the country. This 
recovery translated into increased revenue per available room (RevPAR) 
in line with the growth in occupancies. The Colombo Hotels segment 
was further supported by a strong performance in food and beverage 
operations driven by an increase in both the number of covers and 
the number of events and banquets. Foreign business travel including 
meetings, incentives, conferences and exhibitions (MICE) events also 
witnessed a recovery during the year.
In October 2023, a minimum room rate (MRR) stipulation was introduced 
for hotel properties in the city of Colombo with the aim of improving 
yields and the overall price positioning of Colombo. This resulted in an 
improvement in the average room rate from the second half of the year, 
although overall occupancies were marginally impacted except during 
the peak months of December and January. 

169
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
	y
'Cinnamon Lodge Habarana' was awarded 'Sri Lanka's Leading 
Resort' at the World Travel Awards.
	y
South Asian Travel Awards (SATA) 2023:
•	 'Cinnamon Wild Yala' received Gold for 'Leading Wildlife Lodge 
– Tented Camp'.
•	 'Cinnamon Citadel Kandy' received Silver for 'Leading 
Riverfront Hotel/Resort'.
AWARDS
Macroeconomic Update – The Maldives  
	y
The gross domestic product (GDP) of the Maldives is projected 
to increase by 8.7% during CY2023 [CY2022: 13.9%]. 
	y
The Maldives recorded a 12% increase in arrivals with a total of 
1.9 million tourist arrivals in CY2023, in comparison to the 1.7 
million arrivals in CY2022, which surpasses pre-pandemic levels 
observed in CY2019 of 1.7 million arrivals.  
0
50
100
150
200
250
Arrivals  (’000)
Tourist Arrivals to the Maldives
CY23
CY24
172192 178
217
174194
169
164
121
120
146
155
131
159
164
195
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
	y
Key source markets driving arrivals during CY2023 were India, 
followed by Russia, China, the United Kingdom and Germany.
	y
Occupancy rates at tourist establishments by type:
%
CY2023
CY2022
Resort
66
71
Hotel
35
36
Guest houses
43
31
Tourist vessels
24
24
Average occupancy
58
59
Source: Ministry of Tourism - Maldives
	y
The momentum in arrivals continued between January and 
April 2024 with over 770,000 tourists visiting the Maldives 
during this period. This translates to a 12% growth against the 
comparative quarter [January to April 2024: 688,285 tourist 
arrivals]. 
	y
The construction of the new international passenger terminal at 
the Velana International Airport is scheduled to be completed 
in CY2024. 
'Cinnamon Velifushi Maldives'.
Maldivian Resorts 
During the year under review, performance of the Maldivian Resorts 
segment was encouraging as occupancies and ARRs drove profitability 
particularly in the second half of the year in tandem with peak arrivals 
during the winter season. The appreciation of the Sri Lankan Rupee by 
~11% on average in 2023/24 had an offsetting impact on performance 
especially during the fourth quarter, which is the period the business 
commanded the highest ARR.
Occupancy levels of the Maldivian Resorts segment were lower in 
comparison to the previous year given a change in the mix of the 
overall arrivals to the Maldives, where arrivals from source markets with 
higher yields were lower. While higher volumes into the guest houses 
also impacted business, to an extent, this was limited to the off-season 
period. It is encouraging to note that occupancies of the Maldivian 
Resorts segment outperformed the industry average occupancy of 67% 
in 2023/24, although the industry average comprises of all resorts at 
varying segments as well. 
During the year, the Maldivian tourism industry faced cost pressures 
stemming from a higher cost base as a result of the increase in taxes, 
such as the goods and services tax (GST), and escalating staff costs in 
comparison to the previous financial year. 
Despite the increase in ARRs, margins were impacted by lower 
occupancy levels in the first half of the year. A significant recovery was 
seen in the second half of the year as occupancies increased coupled 
with the decrease in fuel costs during the year.
Maldivian Resorts
2023/24
2023/24 2022/23
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Average Room Rate 
(USD)*
235
212
282
362
275
255
Occupancy (%)
82
82
88
90
86
88
Average LKR/USD 
exchange rate
310
322 
323
313
318
360
*Net of green tax and allocation (F&B charge).

170 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
LEISURE
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
'Cinnamon Dhonveli Maldives'
	y
Awarded 'Quality Hotel' at TUI Global Hotel Awards 2024. 
	y
'Most Popular Hotels Worldwide Award 2024' by Holiday Check.
	y
Received Gold for 'Leading Surf Hotel/Resort' at South Asian 
Travel Awards (SATA) 2023.
'Ellaidhoo Maldives by Cinnamon'
	y
Awarded 'Quality Hotel' at TUI Global Hotel Awards 2024.
	y
'Most Popular Hotels Worldwide Award 2024' by Holiday Check.
	y
Received the 'Red Star Quality Award 2023' by DER Touristik 
Deutschland.
'Cinnamon Hakuraa Huraa Maldives'
	y
Received 'Tripadvisor Travellers' Choice 2023' award.
	y
Recognised amongst the 'Top 100 Hotels 2024' at TUI Global 
Hotel Awards.
	y
Recognised amongst the 'Top 100 World Best Hotels 2023' at 
Starway Tourism Awards by Coraltravel.
AWARDS
FACETS
Motor surf Continental Cup Asia
'Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts' in partnership with Gold Coast Films hosted 
the inaugural 'Social Creator of the Year Awards' (SCY AWARDS) in 2023, 
with Sri Lanka selected as the esteemed venue for its international 
debut. The event showcased the vibrant landscape of Indian social 
media culture, while promoting Sri Lanka as a tourism destination. 
The campaign, supported by Sri Lankan Airlines and Sri Lanka Tourism 
positioned the island nation as an alluring haven, encapsulating the 
essence of a 'Home away from home' for Indian travellers. 
Destination Management 
The Destination Management segment also witnessed a recovery during 
the year in tandem with the growth in tourist arrivals. This growth was 
further boosted by the initiatives undertaken to manage operational 
costs, particularly through the implementation of a central purchasing 
unit, which provided synergies through scale, a central operational 
support unit to standardise and improve efficiency of the back-office 
function. As part of the digital roadmap, the 'driver extranet' platform was 
launched as an industry first initiative. This enabled drivers and guides to 
interact with the company more efficiently by using the online platform, 
thereby eliminating the need for physical presence for tasks such as tour 
settlements. Walkers Tours continued to establish ties with key Indian 
inbound travel partners with the aim of strengthening regional networks 
and widening its presence in the Indian market. Walkers Tours also 
extended its Eastern Europe and cruise marketing strategies and increased 
the number of representatives in tourist originating markets to expand 
its reach. The direct booking platform for the business to business (B2B) 
helped expand distribution by adding a new digital channel. Whittall 
Boustead Travel engaged in a destination marketing campaign with Kuoni 
and Sri Lankan Airlines in select European markets, creating awareness and 
positive momentum for this segment. 
Hotel Management 
During the year under review, a global contact centre was established 
to centralise customer communication and distribution channels were 
further strengthened by setting up global sales offices in key source 
markets. 
The following 'Cinnamon' events were carried out during the year. 
'Cinnamon Bentota Beach' was the venue partner for 'The Gem Sri 
Lanka Trade Fair' organised by the Chinafort Gem and Jewellery Traders 
Association (CGJTA) which was the largest trade event to be held out of 
Colombo post the Covid-19 pandemic and economic crisis. The event 
increased the visibility and awareness of the 'Cinnamon' brand and 
'Cinnamon Bentota Beach', both locally and internationally.
Master Table with Gary Mehigan - Gary Mehigan, one of the former 
judges of MasterChef Australia hosted a series of curated events at 
'Cinnamon Grand Colombo'.

The year 2024 marks a significant culmination 
of events for the Group's iconic integrated 
resort, which has been under construction 
over the last decade. 
Being the largest and most ambitious private 
sector investment in the country at an 
investment of over USD 1 billion, the Group 
announced its partnership with Melco Resorts 
& Entertainment Limited (Melco). 
As part of the collaboration between JKH 
and Melco, the integrated resort, which had 
previously been branded as 'Cinnamon Life 
Integrated Resort', will be rebranded as 'City 
of Dreams Sri Lanka'. 'City of Dreams' is the 
flagship integrated resort brand of Melco.
'City of Dreams Sri Lanka' will help establish 
Colombo as a tourism hub given its multi-use 
facilities and iconic design. The proposed 
gaming facility is envisaged to be a catalyst 
in complementing this multifaceted iconic 
development while providing significant 
growth opportunities and positive financial 
impact for the Group.
Offering and completion timelines:
'City of Dreams Sri Lanka' will encompass a 
luxurious 687-key hotel branded as 'Cinnamon 
Life', which will comprise of many specialty 
restaurants and a range of ballrooms and 
banquet facilities including an exhibition 
centre, that, together, can accommodate 
meetings, incentives, conferences, and 
exhibitions (MICE) events of up to 5,000 seats 
which will be managed by Cinnamon Hotel 
Management Limited (CHML). 'City of Dreams 
Sri Lanka' will also include a 113-key exclusive 
hotel and an ~500,000 square foot retail and 
entertainment facility, including the gaming 
operations. The property is also complemented 
by two residential apartment towers and an 
office tower with ample car parking.
'Cinnamon Life Colombo'
Nuwa - ultra high-end luxury-standard hotel
687 guest rooms
113 guest rooms
6 restaurants
Exhibition hall 
Managed by 
Cinnamon Hotel 
Management Limited
Managed by Melco 
5 bars
Conference hall
Situated on the top five 
floors of the hotel
3 pool bars
4 wellness and 
fitness centres
Range of ballrooms and 
banquet facilities including an 
exhibition centre, that, together, 
can accommodate MICE events 
of up to 5,000 seats
2 pools
3 ballrooms
7 meeting rooms
Dedicated access 
to casino 
39-storey tower
196 apartment 
units
30-storey tower
5 floors reserved 
for car park
24 floors allocated 
for outright sales 
and rent
45-storey tower
231 apartment 
units
•	 ~180,000 sq. ft leased out
•	 ~149,000 sq. ft of rentable 
space 
2 lounges
1 pool
~500,000 sq. ft shopping 
and entertainment facility
gaming space 
retail mall
Car Park
Gaming and 
retail space
'The Suites at 
Cinnamon Life'
'The Offices at 
Cinnamon Life'
Hotel 
'The Residence at 
Cinnamon Life'
Note: The construction of the two residential apartment towers and the office tower of 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka' are 
complete and occupied. 
4 pools
Phase 1 in Q3 2024/25
Phase 2 in mid-2025
Opening of 'Cinnamon Life' hotel, 
restaurants and banquet facilities
Opening of 'Nuwa', gaming space 
and retail mall
Refer the Property industry group review for a detailed discussion of construction progress - page 183
171
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
'City of Dreams Sri Lanka'

'City of Dreams' is the flagship integrated resort brand of Melco. 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka' will be the first fully-fledged integrated resort in the whole of 
South Asia and is expected to create an upsurge in tourism, foreign exchange earnings and employment generation in the city of Colombo, similar to 
other cities that have opened iconic integrated resorts of this nature.
Introduction to Melco Resorts and Entertainment Limited
Melco is an owner, operator and developer of award-winning integrated resorts around the world with hotels and casinos in Macau, the Philippines 
and Cyprus. Melco's properties include 13 luxury hotels with ~6,300 hotel rooms, MICE facilities, internationally recognised shows and events, and over 
1.2 million square feet of gaming areas. Founded in 2004, Melco is listed on the NASDAQ with a market capitalisation of ~USD 3.5 billion as at May 2024 
[pre-pandemic (December 2019) market capitalisation was ~USD 11.5 billion], with over 20,000 employees. 
Structure of the Partnership
As envisaged, the structure of the gaming operations at the integrated resort owned by Waterfront Properties (Private) Limited (WPL), will be such 
that Melco will invest in the fit-out of the casino and lease ~180,000 square feet from WPL, in its capacity of owner and landlord, to operate the casino 
within 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka'. A wholly-owned locally incorporated subsidiary of Melco has been awarded a license from the Government of  
Sri Lanka for a period of 20 years, under the stipulated criteria, to operate a casino at the integrated resort. 
The 113-key exclusive hotel, situated on the top five floors of the integrated resort, will be managed by Melco under its ultra high-end luxury-standard 
hotel brand 'Nuwa', which has presence in Macau and the Philippines. Melco's ultra high-end luxury-standard hotel and casino, together with its 
global brand and footprint, will strongly complement the MICE, entertainment, shopping, dining and leisure offerings in the 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka' 
integrated resort, establishing it as a one-of-a-kind destination in South Asia and the region.
Partnership Structure of 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka':
John Keells Holdings PLC
Waterfront Properties (Private) Limited 
'City of Dreams Sri Lanka'
Melco
	y
Hotel (800-rooms)
•	 'Cinnamon Life': 687 rooms
•	 'Nuwa': 113 ultra high-end luxury rooms
•	 Banqueting and F&B facilities
	y
Conference
	y
Retail Mall
	y
Two residential towers
	y
Office complex
	y
Gaming space
•	 Investment of ~USD 125 
million to fit-out space.
•	 Holder of casino license 
(valid for 20 years).
•	 Operator of the gaming area.
Fixed rental and variable rental linked to EBITDA
Management fee paid to Melco
•	 Operator of the ultra  
high-end luxury hotel.
Asset owner
Asset owner 
and landlord
Provides hotel management services
Provides ~180,000 sq.ft. for casino operations
LEISURE
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
Note: List of IRs captured in the above is not exhaustive.
First fully fledged Integrated Resort (IR) in South Asia:
City of Dreams Sri Lanka
•	 Resorts World Sentosa (2010)
•	 Marina Bay Sands (2010) Singapore
•	 City of Dreams Macau (2009)
•	 Studio City (2015)
•	 Altira Macau (2007)
•	 Venetian Macau Casino (2007)
•	 The Parisian Macau (2016) Macau
•	 Grand Ho Tram (2013)
•	 Hoiana Resort and Gulf (2020) Vietnam
•	 City of Dreams Manila (2015)
•	 Solaire Resort and Casino (2013)  
The Philippines
•	 Naga World Integrated Resort (2003) 
Cambodia
•	 Resort World Genting Malaysia (1971) 
Malaysia
•	 The first iconic IR in the 
whole of South Asia.
•	 No new 
developments 
planned within 
the region in the 
medium-term.
•	 'City of Dreams  
Sri Lanka' will primarily 
focus on international 
revenue from feeder 
markets in the region.
-99% effective stake
172 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24

Outlook
The collaboration with Melco, including access to the technical, marketing, 
branding and loyalty programmes, expertise and governance structures, 
will be a boost for not only the integrated resort of the Group but a 
strong show of confidence in the tourism potential of the country. The 
convergence of all elements in the launch of 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka' 
will unlock its full potential as a transformative development in South Asia 
and be a catalyst in creating tourism demand, foreign exchange earnings 
for Sri Lanka and generating employment while ensuring the synergies 
emanating from the various elements of the integrated resort, including 
the 'Cinnamon Life' hotel and its related facilities, will contribute towards 
ensuring the commercial aspects of the project are optimised.
The opening of integrated resorts and gaming facilities has aided 
other countries to accelerate their tourism momentum, supporting 
destinations directly with increased occupancy, higher rates and foreign 
exchange inflows, in addition to indirectly benefiting the country's 
development through employment creation, among others.  
Opening of Integrated Resorts have been a Key Driver of Tourism
Strong positive correlation between gaming revenue and the 
number of tourist arrivals, highlighting the potential for 'City of 
Dreams Sri Lanka' as a transformative development in South Asia 
and its ability to be a catalyst in creating tourism demand and 
foreign exchange earnings for Sri Lanka.
Marina Bay Sands (MBS) – Singapore
Gaming Space: 162,000 sq.ft.
Solaire Resort & Casino – The Philippines
NagaWorld Integrated Resort – Cambodia
Note: Operations were only for 8 months in 2010.
Sources: Department of Statistics Singapore, Las Vegas Sands Corp annual reports 
Note: Operations were only for 9.5 months in 2013.
Sources: Republic of the Philippines Department of Tourism, Bloomberry Resorts 
Corporation annual reports 
Note: Commenced operations in 1995 on a boat and moved to its current  
land-based facility in 2003.
Sources: Ministry of Tourism of Cambodia, NagaCorp annual reports
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
Singapore
Singapore
(Millions)
(Millions)
Opening of 2 IRs in 2010
Opening of 2 IRs in 2010
CY99
CY01
CY03
CY05
CY07
CY09
CY11
CY13
CY15
CY17
CY19
CY21
CY23
Source: Department of Statistics 
Singapore.
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
Macau
Macau
(Millions)
(Millions)
Liberalisation of gambling in 2001
Liberalisation of gambling in 2001
City of Dreams
City of Dreams
The Parisian Macao
The Parisian Macao
Altira  Macau 
Venetian Macau 
Altira  Macau 
Venetian Macau 
CY99
CY01
CY03
CY05
CY07
CY09
CY11
CY13
CY15
CY17
CY19
CY21
CY23
Source: Government of Macao Special 
Administrative Region - Statistics and 
Census Service.
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
Vietnam
Vietnam
(Millions)
(Millions)
Grand-Ho Tram
Grand-Ho Tram
CY99
CY01
CY03
CY05
CY07
CY09
CY11
CY13
CY15
CY17
CY19
CY21
CY23
Source: World Bank.
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
Sri Lanka
Sri Lanka
(Millions)
(Millions)
CY99
CY01
CY03
CY05
CY07
CY09
CY11
CY13
CY15
CY17
CY19
CY21
CY23
Source: Sri Lanka Tourism Development 
Authority.
CY10 CY11 CY12 CY13 CY14 CY15 CY16 CY17 CY18 CY19 CY20 CY21 CY22 CY23
Casino Revenue vs No. of Tourist Arrivals
Casino Revenue vs No. of Tourist Arrivals
(USD Mn)
(USD Mn)
(No. Mn)
(No. Mn)
0
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500
3,000
 Casino revenue (USD Mn)
 No. of Tourist Arrivals (Mn) 
0
5
10
15
20
25
CY13
CY14
CY15
CY16
CY17
CY18
CY19
CY20
CY21
CY22
CY23
Gross Gaming Revenue (GGR) vs. No. of Tourist Arrivals
Gross Gaming Revenue (GGR) vs. No. of Tourist Arrivals
(USD Mn)
(USD Mn)
(No. Mn)
(No. Mn)
0
200
400
600
800
1,000
1,200
 GGR (USD Mn)
 No. of Tourist Arrivals (Mn) 
0
2
4
6
8
10
CY03
CY04
CY05
CY06
CY07
CY08
CY09
CY10
CY11
CY12
CY13
CY14
CY15
CY16
CY17
CY18
CY19
CY20
CY21
CY22
CY23
GGR vs No. of Tourist Arrivals
GGR vs No. of Tourist Arrivals
(USD Mn)
(USD Mn)
(No. Mn)
(No. Mn)
0
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
 GGR (USD Mn)
 No. of Tourist Arrivals (Mn) 
0
2
4
6
8
173
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
* The graphs illustrated show some of the key IRs in these jurisdictions and is not an exhaustive list.

Spillover Benefits to Hotels within Integrated Resorts
	y
The expectation that the two integrated resorts in Singapore 
would have meaningful positive impact on overall tourism, hotel 
occupancy and rates, in a mature market such as Singapore, 
demonstrates the anticipated transformational impact at the 
time. 
	y
The actual performance and impact exceeded those 
expectations with the IRs investing significantly in expanding 
operations in exchange for an extension of their licenses. For 
a market such as Sri Lanka, where tourism is still at around 2 
million arrivals, the transformational impact of an IR can be far 
more significant in terms of the relative impact on tourism, rates, 
employment and the spillover benefits to the economy.
During the year under review, the business commenced the process 
of onboarding new employees with the requisite skills to operate 
'Cinnamon Life' in line with international hospitality standards. 
Implementation of training and skill development platforms continued 
to be a key priority during the year, given the dynamic nature associated 
with a project of this scale and offering. 
The 687-room capacity of 'Cinnamon Life' further facilitates the ability to 
secure large MICE events given the scale of the property in Colombo and 
the region. 
Gaming
As discussed at the outset, further to the Memorandum of 
Understanding (MoU) with a leading international gaming operator, 
in April 2024, JKH announced that Melco will be the operator of the 
gaming facility at the 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka'. 
WPL, the project company of the 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka', and Melco, 
have finalised all key aspects of the commercial agreements, including 
the rental framework commensurate with the terms of the license. 
Melco has carried out a significant amount of advanced design work, 
engineering and other construction and planning work, and based 
on the substantial ground work carried out and completion of the 
main regulatory requirement, the fit-out of the space is expected to 
commence shortly with operations currently expected to commence 
in mid-2025. Melco will also invest ~USD 125 million in the fit-out and 
equipping of the gaming space. 
Retail
Given the rebranding of the integrated resort and the finalisation of 
the gaming operator, discussions were on hold till such time definitive 
disclosures could be made to the potential tenants of the retail mall. 
Discussions are now progressing for various offerings including 
experiential offerings focused on food and beverages (F&B), lifestyle 
and entertainment, which will complement the hotel and gaming 
operations.
Residential and Office 
The sales of 'The Suites at Cinnamon Life' and 'The Residence at 
Cinnamon Life' stood at 65% of the total sellable area. As at 31 March 
2024, ~97% of the residential units sold were handed over. The 
recognition of recurring revenue from the ten floors of 'The Offices at 
Cinnamon Life' that are leased out continued during the year under 
review. The business continued to engage with prospective tenants to 
occupy the remaining office space.
Refer the Property industry group for a discussion on the residential and office 
components. – page 184
LEISURE
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
CY10 CY11 CY12 CY13 CY14 CY15 CY16 CY17 CY18 CY19 CY20 CY21 CY22 CY23
Hotel Room Revenue and RevPAR - MBS
Hotel Room Revenue and RevPAR - MBS
(USD Mn)
(USD Mn)
(USD)
(USD)
0
100
200
300
400
500
Room Revenue (USD Mn)
RevPAR (USD)
0
200
400
600
800
CY10 CY11 CY12 CY13 CY14 CY15 CY16 CY17 CY18 CY19 CY20 CY21 CY22 CY23
Average Daily Rate and Occupancy - MBS  
Average Daily Rate and Occupancy - MBS  
(USD)
(USD)
(%)
(%)
0
200
400
600
800
 ADR (USD) 
 Occupancy (%) 
0
20
40
60
80
100
174 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
Note: Operations were only for 8 months in 2010.
Source: Las Vegas Sands Corp annual reports
Key Developments for the Year
'Cinnamon Life' Hotel
The 687-key 'Cinnamon Life' hotel and related facilities are in the final 
stages of fit-out and completion, with the fit-out of over 600 of the 
rooms nearing completion. 'Cinnamon Life' is slated to commence 
operations in the third quarter of 2024/25. In April 2024, the contractors 
of the 'Cinnamon Life' hotel commenced the handover of the building 
to enable the hotel operator, 'Cinnamon Life', to complete the final 
stages of furnishing, equipping and other interior works for the rooms 
and common areas.
Given the impending commencement of operations of the 'Cinnamon 
Life' hotel, the business carried out various activities including participating 
in international trade fairs, conducting interviews and providing briefings 
to travel publications, and direct marketing initiatives for selected market 
segments to increase awareness on the hotel and its offerings. The business 
took part in the Arabian Travel Mart (ATM) in early May 2024 where the 
'City of Dreams Sri Lanka' brand was showcased for the first time. Marking 
a further significant milestone, the 'Cinnamon Life' hotel commenced 
accepting bookings for stays and banqueting functions. 

175
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Financial Performance Review
Income Statement Indicators  
Rs.million
2023/24
2022/23
%
Revenue*
City of Dreams Sri Lanka**
                    -   
-
-
Colombo Hotels  
            10,605 
            8,294 
28
Sri Lankan Resorts 
10,186 
            6,043 
69
Maldivian Resorts
20,385 
         22,605 
(10)
Destination Management
6,894 
            2,853 
142
Hotel Management 
96 
                 63 
52
Total
48,166 
         39,858 
21
* Including share of revenue of equity accounted investees.
** Hotel, retail and gaming space are yet to commence operations. 
	y
As discussed in the External Environment and Operational Review, the 
Sri Lankan Leisure businesses recorded a significant improvement in 
performance on the back of a recovery in tourist arrivals in 2023/24 
in comparison to the previous year. The financial year also noted the 
strongest winter season since the pandemic. Coupled with the increase 
in arrivals, the Sri Lankan Leisure businesses saw an increase in revenue 
driven by the improvement in occupancies and average room rates 
(ARRs). The revenue per available room (RevPAR) for both Colombo 
Hotels and Sri Lankan Resorts performed well against competition.
	y
The revenue of the Colombo Hotels segment further improved due 
to the strong performance in its food and beverages and banqueting 
operations. 
	y
The Maldivian Resorts segment reported a marginal increase in revenue 
in US Dollar terms driven by an increase in ARRs, although occupancies 
declined. However, revenue was negatively impacted due to the 
translation impact stemming from the appreciation of the Rupee.
	y
The revenue of the Destination Management sector increased due to 
an increase in number of pax driven by higher tourist arrivals.
	y
The Hotel Management segment recorded an increase in revenue 
from higher management and marketing fees, given the improved 
performance across the hotels, as outlined above.
Rs.million
2023/24
2022/23
%
EBITDA*
City of Dreams Sri Lanka
 (1,063)
(523)
(103)
Colombo Hotels  
 1,248 
             580 
115
Sri Lankan Resorts 
 1,502 
         73
1,958
Maldivian Resorts
 6,211 
        7,356 
(16)
Destination Management
 154 
             (258) 
160
Hotel Management 
 1,105 
           1,331 
(17)
Total
 9,157 
        8,560 
7
PBT**
City of Dreams Sri Lanka
 2,231 
(507)
540
Colombo Hotels  
 311 
           (300)
204
Sri Lankan Resorts 
 (299)
       (1,634)
82
Maldivian Resorts
 299 
            1,017 
(71)
Destination Management
 63 
            (147) 
143
Hotel Management 
 805 
            1,142 
(30)
Total 
 3,410 
       (429)
895
*EBITDA includes interest income and the share of results of equity accounted investees 
which is based on the share of profit after tax but excludes all impacts from foreign 
currency exchange gains and losses (other than for equity accounted investees), to 
demonstrate the underlying cash operational performance of businesses.
** Share of results of equity accounted investees are shown net of all taxes.
	y
The primary drivers for the improvement in EBITDA were the 
aforementioned factors driving revenue.
	y
The EBITDA of 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka' includes marketing and 
promotional costs and staff salaries incurred in preparation for its 
impending launch. All project costs, other than costs which are 
expensed to the Income Statement, are capitalised under property, 
plant and equipment (PPE) as work-in-progress costs. This includes 
interest on the loan taken to fund the project during construction. 
Excluding 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka', the Leisure industry group 
recorded an EBITDA growth of 19% to Rs.10.22 billion. 
	y
During the year, margins were impacted by higher staff costs due to 
increases in salaries and enhanced levels of operations in comparison 
to the previous year. The significant rise in electricity costs due to the 
increase in tariffs also negatively impacted margins. The margins are 
expected to benefit from an improvement in energy costs in 2024/25 
due to the downward revision of electricity tariffs in March 2024. It 
should be noted that, margins are tracking towards peak levels in 
2018/19, supported by improved rates and occupancies. 
	y
As detailed in the ensuing section, the functional reporting currency 
of Waterfront Properties (Private) Limited (WPL), the project company 
of 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka', was transitioned from USD to LKR, 
given the impending commencement of operations of the project. 
The appreciation of the LKR against the USD, subsequent to this 
transition, resulted in a non-cash exchange gain of Rs.3.00 billion 
on the USD 219 million term loan facility at WPL, which is recorded 
under finance income.
	y
In addition to the growth in revenue, the PBT of the Colombo 
Hotels segment benefited from the improved cash flows from 
operations which led to the normalisation of short-term borrowings, 
and, together with the impact of lower interest rates resulted in a 
reduction of finance costs.
	y
In addition to the translation impact of the appreciation of the 
Rupee, the Maldivian Resorts segment encountered cost pressures 
stemming from a higher cost base as result of the increase in taxes, 
such as the goods and services tax (GST), and escalating staff costs 
in comparison to the previous financial year. However, a significant 
recovery was witnessed in the second half of the year as occupancies 
increased coupled with the decrease in fuel costs during the year. 
	y
At a PBT level, performance of the Maldivian Resort segment was 
impacted by an increase in US Dollar borrowing rates.
	y
The Destination Management segment recorded an increase in 
EBITDA further driven by efficiency initiatives taken by the business. 
The Hotel Management segment noted a decline due to the increase 
in staff and operational costs.
The recurring adjustments for 2023/24 include fair value gains/losses on 
investment property (IP) and the write-off of deferred tax assets brought 
forward from tax losses and capital allowances in previous years, as 
detailed in the Financial and Manufactured Capital Review. Accordingly, 
the recurring EBITDA of the industry group excluding the gain on IP 
amounted to Rs.9.06 billion, a 5% increase against the previous year 
[2022/23: Rs.8.60 billion]. The recurring PAT amounted to Rs.3.03 billion 
excluding the deferred tax asset write-off of Rs.408 million.

176 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
Balance Sheet Indicators
Rs.million
2023/24
2022/23
%
Assets
City of Dreams Sri Lanka
         250,261 
235,452
6
Colombo Hotels  
            41,865 
          39,269 
7
Sri Lankan Resorts 
            23,979 
23,236
3
Maldivian Resorts
            53,242 
61,916
(14)
Destination Management
              3,214 
1,807
78
Hotel Management 
              3,164 
2,401
32
Total
         375,725 
364,081
3
	y
Given the near completion of the construction of the 'City of Dreams 
Sri Lanka', capitalisation of construction costs for the hotel, retail and 
gaming spaces was undertaken based on the completion of the 
project.
	y
No significant capital expenditure was undertaken in the rest of the 
Leisure industry group, apart from maintenance related items.
	y
The trade receivables of the Destination Management sector 
increased due to enhanced operations in comparison to the  
previous year.
	y
The growth in assets of the Hotel Management segment was due to 
an increase in investments in associates from investments made for 
the development of the 215-key hotel in Kandy, jointly developed by 
John Keells Hotels PLC (KHL) and Indra Traders (Private) Limited and 
an increase in cash.
Rs.million
2023/24
2022/23
%
Debt*
City of Dreams Sri Lanka
 66,164 
74,423
(11)
Colombo Hotels  
 2,230 
2,051 
9
Sri Lankan Resorts 
 7,373 
7,178
3
Maldivian Resorts
 13,780 
17,260
(20)
Destination Management
 66 
262
(75)
Hotel Management 
 1,231 
1,265
(4)
Total
 90,826 
102,439
(11)
*Excludes lease liabilities.
	y
The decline in debt at the 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka' is due to the 
commencement of capital repayments on the USD 225 million term 
loan facility, and the translation impact from the appreciation of 
the Rupee. Whilst the loan is structured with a back-ended bullet 
repayment, USD 5.6 million was repaid during the year. 
	y
The Colombo Hotels segment noted a stabilisation in debt levels 
in comparison to previous years with improved cash flow from 
operations and the Sri Lankan Resorts segment noted an increase 
in bank overdrafts given the increase in operational activity in 
comparison to the previous year.
	y
The reduction in debt at the Maldivian Resorts stemmed from a 
translation impact from the appreciation of the Rupee in addition to 
a reduction in overall debt in US Dollar terms, due to repayments.
Lease liabilities as at 31 March 2024 stood at Rs.19.55 billion [2022/23: 
Rs.22.81 billion], with ~97% stemming from the Maldivian Resorts 
segment. Total debt including leases stood at Rs.110.38 billion as at 31 
March 2024 [2022/23: Rs.125.25 billion].
Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) Analysis
ROCE
(%)
=
EBIT 
margin 
(%)
x
Asset 
turnover
x
Capital 
structure 
leverage
2023/24
1.0
7.3
0.13
1.06
2022/23 
1.2
6.6
0.16
1.06
	y
The ROCE of the Leisure industry group is distorted on account of 
operational costs, capital and asset recognitions from the 'City of Dreams 
Sri Lanka' project, which is under construction with no commensurate 
revenue generation, thereby adversely impacting the ROCE of the 
industry group. 
	y
Excluding 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka', the ROCE of the Leisure industry 
group was 1.3%, driven by both higher rates and volumes. However, the 
EBIT margin for the Maldivian Resorts declined due to the translation 
impact resulting from the appreciation of the Rupee as detailed above.
	y
During the year, Rs.19.58 billion of cash equity was infused into 'City of 
Dreams Sri Lanka' to finance the development costs of the project.
	y
As at 31 March 2024, the cumulative figures for equity infused stood 
at Rs.172.03 billion. The cumulative equity investment at the 'City 
of Dreams Sri Lanka' includes the land transferred by JKH and its 
subsidiaries at the inception of the project. Note that all project related 
costs including interest costs, unless explicitly mentioned, are capitalised 
in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRS/LKAS).
Change in the functional reporting currency of Waterfront 
Properties (Private) Limited (WPL)
As detailed in the interim statements, in August 2023, the functional 
reporting currency of WPL, was changed from US Dollars (USD) to Sri 
Lankan Rupees (LKR) given the impending transition of the project from 
construction to an operational business. 
Previously, under a USD functional reporting currency at WPL, all assets 
and liabilities of WPL were recorded in USD and matched against each 
other in line with the accounting standards. Post conversion to an LKR 
functional currency, this matching ceased to exist, as all assets and 
liabilities, other than the USD 225 million loan facility, USD cash and any 
USD denominated transactions, will be fixed in LKR as at the date of 
conversion. Taking a longer-term view, the overall financial performance 
of the Group, and WPL, will benefit from the conversion of the asset to 
LKR at a point of time where the LKR is relatively strong, although the 
currency has appreciated at the year end relative to the rate at the point 
of conversion. 
Assuming the LKR will, on average, depreciate in the long-term, the 
conversion will result in a relatively lower LKR carrying cost of the asset, 
thereby improving the Group's capital employed and returns. It should 
be noted that the loan facility will mature in December 2026.   
LEISURE
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW

177
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Outlook and Risks
Tourism has been a key driver of Sri Lanka's economic growth in the 
past, generating significant foreign exchange earnings and employment 
opportunities, whilst also fostering cultural exchange and environmental 
conservation. It is a low-hanging fruit that has the potential to position 
the country as a tourism hub in the South Asian region, particularly 
given its geographical diversity, rich cultural heritage and proximity to 
two of the largest outbound travel markets in the World, India and China. 
The tourism industry in Sri Lanka underwent unprecedented challenges 
across four consecutive years since the Easter Sunday terror attacks in 
April 2019, the subsequent global and local outbreak of the Covid-19 
pandemic, and thereafter the macroeconomic crisis, which exerted 
significant pressure on performance. Tourism will be a key catalyst in 
propelling the ongoing recovery of the economy, mirroring the notable 
momentum and encouraging contribution witnessed in CY2023, which 
continued to drive economic performance quarter by quarter, and as 
witnessed historically. 
Sri Lanka recorded 1,787,408 tourist arrivals for 2023/24, with monthly 
tourist arrivals from December 2023 onwards exceeding the 200,000 
mark consecutively. Growth was primarily driven by arrivals from 
countries such as India, Russia, Germany, the United Kingdom, and 
Australia. The industry is envisaged to sustain this growth momentum 
on the back of accommodative travel policies and competitiveness as 
a destination in terms of the diverse and unique nature of offerings. 
Additionally, although the local currency has appreciated by ~11% on 
average since 2022/23, Sri Lanka continues to have an added competitive 
advantage from a pricing perspective due to the significant depreciation 
of the Rupee in 2022. Against this backdrop, the Group remains confident 
that the prospects for tourism remain extremely positive.
Key risks, trends and opportunities relevant to the industry group:
Immediate to Short-Term
Global Tourism
The United Nations World Tourism Organisation (UNWTO) estimates that 
international tourism in CY2023 stood at 88% of pre-pandemic levels, 
with ~1.3 billion arrivals globally. UNWTO projects a full recovery to pre-
pandemic levels in CY2024, estimating a 2% growth above CY2019 levels, 
underpinned by the release of the residual pent-up demand, improved air 
connectivity and the robust rebound of the Asian markets. Similarly, the 
World Travel and Tourism Council (WTTC) has projected a record-breaking 
year for travel and leisure, with tourism estimated to contribute an all-time 
high of USD 11.1 trillion to the global economy in CY2024.
Jan
Mar
May
Jul
Sep
Nov
Jan
Mar
May
Jul
Sep
Nov
Jan
Mar
May
Jul
Sep
Nov
Jan
Mar
May
Jul
Sep
Nov
Jan
Mar
May
Jul
Sep
Nov
CY20
CY20
(72)%
(72)%
CY22
CY22
CY21
CY21
CY23*
CY23*
International tourist arrivals from CY2020 to CY2023, and UNWTO projection for CY2024
International tourist arrivals from CY2020 to CY2023, and UNWTO projection for CY2024
CY24*
CY24*
0
(20)
(40)
(60)
(80)
(100)
Projection:
Actual data*
Annual change
(over CY19)
(69)%
(69)%
Annual change
(over CY19)
(34)%
(34)%
Annual change
(over CY19)
(12)%
(12)%
Annual change
(over CY19)
CY24 change
(Over CY19)
+2%
(Monthly change over CY19, %)
(Monthly change over CY19, %)
(64)
(16)
(90)
(74)
(86)
(87)
63)
(24)
(19)
(11)
Source: UNWTO (January 2024).
*Data for CY23 are preliminary and based on estimates for destinations which have not yet 
reported results. Data for CY24 are projections.
Source: UNWTO (January 2024).
Note: CY23 - provisional data.
CY00
CY02
CY04
CY06
CY08
CY10
CY12
CY14
CY16
CY18
CY20
CY22
CY24
SARS (CY03)
Global Economic Crisis (CY09)
International tourist arrivals
(millions)
Covid-19 (CY20)
1,462
1,286
407
457
960
	y
Rising demand for tourism, especially from the Asian region
	y
Shifting traveller preferences with particular emphasis on  
eco-friendly, sustainable and experiential travel, especially 
'green holiday destinations'
	y
Digital nomadism
	y
Digital transformation in travel planning and booking
	y
Diversification of tourism offerings
	y
Increasing opportunities for meetings, incentives, conferences 
and exhibitions (MICE)
	y
Macroeconomic and political environment*
•	 Lower than planned growth in tourist arrivals
•	 Changes in regulatory environment*
	y
Supply chain disruptions*
•	 Potential increase in input costs stemming from geopolitical 
tensions, global impacts and domestic developments
	y
Financial exposure*, in particular exchange rate volatility
	y
Global competitiveness* and evolving consumer preferences
	y
Human resources and talent management*
	y
Climate risks*
	y
Environment and health & safety*
•	 Impact on eco-systems and biodiversity
•	 Waste generation and management
•	 Health and safety of employees and guests
	y
Information technology*
	y
Reputation and brand image*
Trends and Opportunities
Risks
*Identified as a risk across the Group through the Group's Enterprise Risk Management 
framework. Refer Key Risks section under Outlook and Risks for a detailed discussion.  

178 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
LEISURE
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
Potential headwinds to the outlook primarily stem from the global 
economy, including persistent inflation, high interest rates, volatile oil 
prices and disruptions to trade. Geopolitical conflicts between Russia-
Ukraine and Israel-Palestine may continue to weigh on confidence and 
on overall recovery of the industry globally. 
As per UNWTO, global travel trends for CY2024 are expected to be 
centred around value-conscious travel options and travel closer to home. 
Sustainable practices and adaptability are envisaged to become pivotal 
factors influencing consumer decisions. However, a significant challenge 
persists in the form of staff shortages, as most destinations are expected to 
be impacted by a shortage of labour to manage the surge in demand.
Sri Lankan Tourism
Sri Lanka's tourism industry recorded an encouraging uptick in tourist 
arrivals, in tandem with the improvement in macroeconomic conditions in 
the last year. The Sri Lanka Tourism Development Authority (SLTDA) aims 
to attract 2.3 million visitors in CY2024. Although arrivals are still below 
pre-pandemic levels, it is encouraging to witness the month-on-month 
pick-up in inquiries and forward bookings. The recovery trend in arrivals 
is expected to continue with growth across all major source markets. The 
strong economic growth in India and the resultant increase in travel in 
India is a significant opportunity for Sri Lanka, particularly considering the 
proximity to key Indian cities. Increased flight frequencies, particularly from 
India and China, is envisaged to augur well for the destination. 
Tourism will continue to be a key catalyst in driving the recovery and 
growth of the economy, particularly in the context of the positive impact 
it will have on foreign exchange earnings. In December 2023, Sri Lanka 
launched its first global destination marketing campaign in 15 years titled 
'You'll come back for more', which is planned to be launched in three 
stages. The first phase entails the ongoing 'Checking in' campaign which 
conveys Sri Lanka's ability to welcome tourists with the country having 
returned to stability. In the subsequent phases, the SLTDA envisages to 
expand further on the core message of 'You'll come back for more' and 
widely promote the campaign amongst major source markets. Whilst 
the launch of a campaign after a considerable period of time is positive, 
it is of paramount importance to expeditiously fully implement the 
destination marketing campaign. Additionally, these marketing efforts 
should be continued on a sustained basis with a strategic focus, in order 
to reap the full benefits of such campaigns. 
As discussed under the External Environment and Operational Review, the 
destination has garnered considerable international attention due to its 
distinctive and varied offerings. The receipt of international recognition, 
awards, and accolades is anticipated to positively influence Sri Lanka's 
positioning on the global stage.
SLTDA predictions for tourist arrivals in CY2024 under two scenarios
CY2018
CY2023
CY2024
Actual
Actual Conservative 
Scenario
Optimistic 
Scenario
Actual
January-March
707,924 
335,679 
661,272 
716,926 
635,784 
April-June
456,723 
289,195 
426,625 
462,531 
148,867*
July-September
567,275 
391,382 
529,891 
574,489 
N/A
October-December
601,874 
471,047 
562,210 
609,528 
N/A
 
2,333,796
1,487,303
2,179,998
2,363,474
784,651
*Captures arrivals for April only.
Sri Lanka is Uniquely Positioned to Capitalise on Renewed 
Demand for Global Travel
	y
Continually improving infrastructure development, including 
airports, roads, and public transportation.
	y
Improved air connectivity, especially from key source markets.
	y
Diverse attractions from cultural heritage sites to pristine 
beaches, mountains, wildlife, adventure activities, and ayurveda/
wellness retreats.
	y
Home to a remarkable array of wildlife including elephants, 
leopards, sloth bears; marine life; and a wide variety of birds.
	y
Adventure activities such as hikes, white-water rafting, water 
sports, surfing, whale/dolphin watching etc.
International Endorsements - Sri Lanka
	y
Fourth most popular solo travel destination in 2024 by Forbes 
Magazine.
	y
No. four on 'World's Best Countries to Visit in your Lifetime 2024' 
by CEOWORLD magazine.
	y
Amongst the 'Top Countries to Travel' in 2023 by Forbes and 
TravelTriangle.
	y
Featured as a 'Top Destination for Wildlife Safaris Outside Africa' 
by Forbes in 2023.
	y
Ranked 8th on '50 most Instagrammable Places in the World' in 
2024 by Big 7 Travel.
	y
Featured on 'Top 20 Places to Travel' by Readers' Choice Awards 
2023 (Conde Nast Traveler).
	y
Listed in 'Where to Travel in 2022' by CNN.
	y
Cultural heritage site, Sigiriya, was listed as one of Bloomberg's 
New 7 Wonders of the World.

179
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
International Endorsements - The Maldives 
	y
Ranked the 'World's Leading Destination' at the World Travel 
Awards for the last four consecutive years (2020-2023)
	y
Winner of the 'Global Tourism Resilience' award at the World 
Travel Awards 2023
	y
Named 'Favourite Island in Asia' at the Travel + Leisure World's 
Best awards 2023
	y
Ranked No. three for 'Best Country' at the Telegraph Travel 
Awards in 2023
Demand and supply dynamics:
	y
The Sri Lankan Leisure businesses will continue their comprehensive 
rate strategy to ensure optimum returns, taking into consideration 
the planned increase in tourist arrivals over the ensuing months 
against the inventory of rooms in Sri Lanka. Whilst this is unlikely to 
have a material impact on occupancy, this is envisaged to translate 
to better top-line performance of the businesses and aid revenue 
growth whilst also ensuring optimised yields. 
	y
The Group's beach front properties are envisaged to witness a speedy 
recovery in the short-term, whilst round-trip properties are likely to 
see a gradual rebound in rates to pre-pandemic levels. 
	y
Minimum room rates (MRRs) which were imposed on hotels in 
Colombo effective from October 2023 have also impacted the 
pricing of the Group's three hotels in the city. The MRRs imposed 
are USD 100 for five-star hotels, USD 75 for four-star hotels and USD 
60 for three-star hotels. The SLTDA and the Ministry of Tourism have 
confirmed that the MRRs will be removed with effect from 31 May 
2024.
	y
Indications suggest that the sluggish expansion in consumer 
demand observed in recent years is shifting, which may contribute to 
gradual uptick in demand for domestic travel. The food and beverage 
(F&B) operations are envisaged to continue its strong performance, as 
witnessed in 2023/24. 
Costs and margins:
	y
Stabilising inflation and a stronger domestic currency are envisaged 
to aid the Leisure businesses in managing their cost base and 
improving margins. Regardless, the businesses will continue to 
adopt stringent expense control and cost optimisation measures to 
ensure costs are controlled and margins recover to optimal levels. 
The recently announced downward revision of electricity tariffs will 
bode well for the business, given that heat, light and power accounts 
a notable portion of the overall costs. Businesses closely monitor 
electricity tariffs and make necessary investments, to the extent 
possible and not already implemented, to reduce their power and 
energy expense.
	y
The EBITDA of the businesses is expected to improve in tandem with 
occupancy increases given a better absorption of fixed costs. 
	y
Whilst a portion of the industry group's debt is on fixed terms and 
therefore has helped to partially mitigate the impact of elevated 
interest rate conditions in previous years, the residual portion of 
debt which is variable will benefit from the relatively low interest rate 
regime.
Portfolio Expansion:
	y
In terms of portfolio expansion, the 215-key hotel in Kandy, jointly 
developed by John Keells Hotels PLC (KHL) and Indra Traders (Private) 
Limited, is currently under development. The capital deployed for 
the project will be based on an asset-light investment model and 
the Group will maintain a 40% minority equity stake in line with this 
strategy. The management of the hotel will fall under the purview of 
the Hotel Management sector. The hotel is expected to commence 
operations in the third quarter of 2024/25 and will feature amenities 
such as an expansive rooftop bar and a swimming pool, amongst 
others.
	y
Construction work at 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka' (formerly referred to 
as 'Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort') is progressing well, with the 
hotel, retail and entertainment components in the final stages of 
construction. The fit-outs and interior works of the hotel rooms and 
common areas are nearing completion with the hotel expected to 
commence operations in the third quarter of 2024/25. In the short-
term, the business will continue to engage with potential tenants 
of the retail mall, to ensure unique attractions and offerings. Various 
alternatives including experiential offerings focused on food and 
beverages, lifestyle and entertainment, which would complement the 
hotel and gaming operations, will be considered for the retail space.
Refer Page 171 for further details. 
Maldivian Tourism
	y
The Government of Maldives successfully exceeded its target of 
1.8 million arrivals for CY2023, recording 1.88 million tourist arrivals 
during the year. Arrivals thereafter from January to April 2024 noted 
significant growth against the comparative period. For CY2024, the 
Government has announced a target of 2 million arrivals. 
	y
Tourism in the Maldives is expected to be driven by growth in 
global tourism post adjusting for the impacts of geopolitical crises. 
Increased capacity due to the impending completion of the Velana 
International Airport expansion and a rebound in Chinese arrivals, 
which was the single largest source market into the Maldives prior to 
the pandemic, will aid growth. 
	y
Potential downside risks include a slower growth in tourism than 
envisaged, adverse oil prices stemming from inflationary pressures 
affecting long-haul travel from source markets. However, these are 
likely to be offset through organic growth in global tourism.
	y
It is encouraging that the rebound in tourism into the Maldives has 
been primarily driven by traditional source markets, while alternate 
markets have also contributed significantly, demonstrating the 
'pent-up' demand and demonstrating the potential for arrivals. The 
recent rise in alternative accommodation channels of guest houses 

180 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
which are at a more affordable price point to the typical premium 
destination, has also resulted in the attraction of budget-conscious 
travellers, which is envisaged to continue going forward, contributing 
to a change in the mix of overall arrivals. This may present a challenge 
for the hotels and resorts across the industry, which will also exert 
pressure on the Group's Maldivian properties.  
	y
As noted in the Operational Review, arrivals to the Maldives and 
the Group's Maldivian properties have been encouraging, where 
occupancy has remained steady whilst average room rates (ARRs) 
have noted a growth.
	y
Although the functional currency of the Maldivian properties is USD, 
given that the performance of the segment is reported in LKR in this 
Report, it is noted that the USD/LKR exchange rate has a notable 
bearing when consolidating performance. 
Medium to Long-Term
The Group remains confident that the prospects for tourism, and 
the Leisure industry group in particular, in the medium to long-term 
remain extremely positive. This optimism is based on the diverse range 
of offerings and the potential for regional tourism, supported by the 
availability of a comprehensive portfolio of hotels to accommodate the 
expected surge in demand. Sri Lanka's potential in the tourism sector 
remains largely untapped, considering that the country received only 
2.3 million tourists prior to the Easter Sunday attacks in CY2019, while 
regional tourism has experienced significant growth over the past 
decade.
Tourist arrivals lag well below regional peers
Round trip offering in key tourist destinations of Sri Lanka; 
further potential to expand the 'Cinnamon' footprint both in the 
Maldives and Sri Lanka
The Bandaranaike International Airport (BIA) expansion project is a two-
phase project - phase B, providing 23 additional parking spaces (aprons) 
for aircrafts using the facility was concluded in November 2021. Phase A, 
which entails the construction of a new passenger terminal building was 
suspended in CY2022. The Government has intimated that the funding 
for Phase A will recommence once the debt restructure is finalised. Post 
completion of Phase A, the terminal will have the ability to handle 15 
million passengers annually. It is imperative that these airport capacity 
constraints as well as tourism infrastructure are addressed swiftly to 
allow the country to fully capitalise on the expected boom in tourism. 
'City of Dreams Sri Lanka'
Please refer the special report 
on 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka' 
on page 171.
LEISURE
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
Note:
*Currently under construction.
**Currently under construction, minority stake with management rights.
***Minority stake with management rights in 'Cinnamon Red Colombo'. 
Of the total freehold land acreage owned, a total of 96 acres of 
freehold land are in key tourist hotspots:
	y
Ahungalla (Southern 
Province): 10.9 acres
	y
Trincomalee (Eastern 
Province): 14.6 acres
	y
Nilaveli (Eastern Province): 
41.7 acres
	y
Wirawila (Southern 
Province): 25.2 acres
Hotels in Colombo
Cinnamon Grand 
Colombo 
(501 rooms)

Cinnamon 
Lakeside 
Colombo
(346 rooms)

Cinnamon Life*
(687 rooms)
Cinnamon Red 
Colombo***
(243 rooms)

Nuwa*
(113 rooms)
Cinnamon 
Velifushi 
Maldives
(90 rooms)

Cinnamon 
Hakuraa Huraa 
Maldives 
(100 rooms)

Cinnamon 
Dhonveli 
Maldives
(152 rooms)

Ellaidhoo 
Maldives by 
Cinnamon
(112 rooms)

Cinnamon 
Bey 
Beruwala
(199 rooms)

Cinnamon 
Bentota 
Beach (159 
rooms)

Cinnamon 
Lodge 
Habarana 
(138 rooms)

Hikka 
Tranz by 
Cinnamon
(150 rooms)

Cinnamon 
Citadel 
Kandy
(119 rooms)

Habarana 
Village by 
Cinnamon
(108 rooms)

Cinnamon 
Wild Yala
(68 rooms)

Trinco Blu by 
Cinnamon
(81 rooms) 

New hotel in 
Kandy** 
(216 rooms)
Maldives
Hotels in Colombo
Sri Lanka
Cinnamon Hotels and Resorts
The businesses will continue to operate within the realigned structure 
put in place in 2020/21, which is a part of the Group's vision of 
expanding its footprint, in an asset-light model, to enable the businesses 
to create a holistic value proposition that leverages on the round-trip 
offerings in Sri Lanka and the Maldives, whilst fostering greater synergies 
and efficiencies across the hotel portfolio resulting in an enhanced 
customer value proposition.
(Arrivals in million)
(Arrivals in million)
Malaysia
Indonesia
Thailand
Vietnam
Cambodia
CY2018 arrivals for
comparative purposes
(CY2019 includes the impact
of Easter Sunday attacks)
Sri Lanka
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
CY90
CY19
CY23
Note: Given the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic in CY2020 and CY2021, the 
graph compares tourist arrivals in CY1990 against CY2019.
Source: Governmental tourism websites

181
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Colombo Hotels
Several major infrastructure projects are expected to be completed in 
the ensuing years in Colombo including the Port City Colombo project 
and the development of the East and West Terminals of the Port of 
Colombo. Such notable developments will augur well for Colombo, 
particularly in attracting business travellers. The availability of dedicated 
conferencing and meeting facilities is also expected to bode well for 
tourism, particularly to attract tourism from the MICE segment. The 
Colombo Hotels segment will be uniquely positioned to capitalise on 
this opportunity, particularly given the additional demand for MICE 
which is envisaged to be created with the launch of 'City of Dreams  
Sri Lanka'.
As discussed previously, the presence of the first integrated resort in 
South Asia which includes gaming facilities will have a trickle-down 
effect on the rest of the properties in Colombo, similar to trends 
witnessed in other parts of world, accelerating the tourism opportunity 
in Colombo. 
Continued focus will be placed on prioritising the development of 
market-specific strategies aimed at catering to a diverse clientele. 
The properties will also leverage on its unparalleled F&B offering, by 
continuing to strengthen its dedicated offerings and flagship restaurants. 
Sri Lankan Hotels
Given the increasing traction Sri Lanka has received as a holiday 
destination and the unparalleled cultural and natural landscape of 
the country, the prospects for the Sri Lankan Resorts segment remain 
positive in the medium-term. The Group will continue its investments to 
expand the 'Cinnamon' footprint across the island, although primarily in 
line with the Group's asset-light investment strategy. 
In addition to the launch of the new development in Kandy, the 
Group will also place emphasis on monetising its significant land bank, 
especially in the Southern and Eastern coasts, thereby strengthening its 
project pipeline for the segment.
Maldivian Resorts
The performance of the Maldivian Resorts segment is expected 
to continue its upward trajectory, given ongoing infrastructure 
developments and the Government's focus on developing the tourism 
industry. The Group remains confident of the ability to capitalise on the 
envisaged growth in tourism in the medium to long-term. 
The segment will continue to work closely with key tourist market 
operators to better position and market its refurbished room inventory, 
whilst growing direct bookings through online platforms.
Hotel Management
The sector will continue to develop a pipeline of 'Cinnamon' events, 
aimed at developing Colombo as an entertainment hub in South Asia 
and reinforcing the 'Cinnamon' brand.
Destination Management
Emphasis will be placed on opportunities beyond the traditional travel 
intermediary space. The sector will also focus on improving process 
efficiency, scalability of operations and productivity of the business 
in catering to evolving customer needs through the use of its digital 
platforms.

182 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
Property Development
	y
Development and sale of properties under four 
segments; 'Luxe Spaces', 'Metropolitan Spaces', 
'Suburban Spaces' and 'Leisure linked Developments'.
	y
The Group's integrated resort, branded 'City of 
Dreams Sri Lanka', which comprises of: 
•	 The development and sale of two residential 
apartment towers; 'The Suites at Cinnamon Life' 
and 'The Residence at Cinnamon Life'. 
•	 The development and sale/rental of units of the 
office tower, 'The Offices at Cinnamon Life'.
	y
'TRI-ZEN', a residential apartment development based 
on smart living in the heart of the city.
	y
'VIMAN', a suburban residential apartment 
development located in the heart of Ja-Ela.
	y
Development of holiday homes at 'Victoria Golf 
Resort' in Rajawella, Kandy.
	y
Previous residential apartment projects: 'OnThree20', 
'7th Sense on Gregory's Road', 'Monarch', and 
'Emperor'.
Note: The hotel, retail and gaming spaces within the 'City of Dreams 
Sri Lanka' is captured under the Leisure industry group review.
Property Management 
	y
Rental of commercial office space.
	y
Management of the Group's real estate portfolio. 
	y
Ownership and operation of the 'Crescat Boulevard' 
mall and management of the 'K-Zone' mall in 
Moratuwa.
	y
Operation of the 18-hole championship golf course 
and resort, and development and management of 
the land bank in Rajawella, Kandy.
PROPERTY
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
2023/24
2022/23
2021/22
Operational Highlights
City of Dreams Sri Lanka 
The Residence at Cinnamon Life
No. of units
147
151
152
The Suites at Cinnamon Life
No. of units
109
115
115
TRI-ZEN
No. of SPAs
700
655
652
VIMAN
No. of SPAs
100
N/A
N/A
Financial and Manufactured Capital
Revenue 1
Rs.million
 5,234 
 4,577 
 41,476 
EBITDA
Rs.million
 (822)
 (215)
 2,965 
PBT
Rs.million
 (857)
 (2,135)
 (847)
PAT
Rs.million
 (569)
 (2,350)
 (986)
Total assets
Rs.million
 84,519 
 94,321 
 276,754 
Total equity
Rs.million
 77,713 
 88,347 
 166,895 
Total debt 2
Rs.million
 1,033 
 1,161 
 102,260 
Capital employed 3
Rs.million
 78,746 
 89,509 
 269,155 
Natural Capital
Energy consumption 
kWh
 2,208,306  1,096,365  1,045,212 
Energy consumption per operational 
intensity factor
kWh per 
Rs.million
895.50
388.37
28.75
Carbon footprint
MT
 1,600.67 
 831.72 
 801.57 
Carbon footprint per operational 
intensity factor
MT per 
Rs.million
0.65
0.29
0.02
Water withdrawal 
m3
 188,789 
 145,336 
 230,110 
Water withdrawal per operational 
intensity factor
m3 per 
Rs.million
76.56
51.48
6.33
Volume of hazardous waste generated kg
0
0
0
Volume of non hazardous waste 
generated
kg
55,596
40,381
38,225
Waste generated per operational 
intensity factor
kg per 
Rs.million
22.55
14.30
1.05
Human Capital
Total Workforce (employees and 
contractors' staff)
No.
303
299
270
EBIT per employee 
Rs.million
(3)
(1)
11
Average training per employee
hours
5.85
2.59
0.94
Total Attrition
%
24.3
23.2
24.6
Females employee
%
26.8
22.5
25.7
Total injuries
No.
2
0
0
Social and Relationship Capital
Community Services and Infrastructure 
Projects4
Rs.'000
 473
6,697
-
1.	 Revenue is inclusive of the Group's share of equity accounted investees.
2.	 Excludes lease liabilities.
3.	 For equity accounted investees, capital employed is representative of the Group's equity investment in 
these companies. This is inclusive of lease liabilities.
4.	 Only the contribution to John Keells Foundation.
182 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
Contribution to the John Keells Group
2%
(3%)
13%
1%
Revenue
EBIT
Capital Employed
Carbon Footprint

183
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
External Environment and Operational Review
Macroeconomic Update
	y
The construction sector accounted for 6.2% of Sri Lanka's GDP 
in CY2023 [CY2022: 7.6%]. 
	y
The land valuation indicator for Colombo District, compiled by 
the Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL), was 219.8 in the second 
half of CY2023, a 7% increase against the comparative period 
[CY2022 2H: 205.2]. Despite a slowdown in growth compared 
to the previous year, the residential, commercial, and industrial 
sub-indices contributed to this increase.
	y
The Sri Lanka purchasing managers' index (PMI) for construction 
(total activity index) compiled by the CBSL was 55.9 in March 
2024 (March 2023: 45.8). January marked the first time that 
the index exceeded the neutral threshold since January 
2022. The gradual availability of new construction work and 
recommencement of suspended projects led to the increase.
	y
Based on the condominium market survey compiled by the 
CBSL, the price index for new condominiums in the Colombo 
district continued to escalate during the year, with a year-on-
year (YoY) increase of 24%.  
	y
The asking prices for condominiums have increased on a YoY 
basis, while the land prices noted a decrease.
Sales by Price Category
Sales by Price Category
(%)
(%)
0
20
40
60
80
100
0–25Mn
Q4 CY22
Q4 CY23
25Mn–50Mn
50Mn–75Mn
Above 75 Mn
10
68
17
5
16
6
43
35
Sales by Condominium Category
Sales by Condominium Category
(%)
(%)
0
20
40
60
80
100
Mixed Development Projects in Colombo District
Single Condominium Projects in Colombo District
Single Condominium Projects in Gampaha & Kaluthara Districts
Single Condominium Projects in Other Areas (Galle, Kandy, Sigiriya, Nuwara Eliya & Nilaveli)
Q4 CY22
Q4 CY23 1
33
66
3
27
55
15
Source – CBSL Real Estate Market Analysis Q4 CY2023
Connectivity
	y
The Port Access Elevated Highway (PAEH) is scheduled to 
open in October 2024. The highway will connect Sri Lanka's 
economic centre, Colombo, via the Colombo Port, Port City 
Colombo and the Bandaranaike International Airport (BIA).
Key Policy and Regulatory Highlights 
	y
The value added tax (VAT) on the sale of condominium 
residential units was increased from 15% to 18%, with effect 
from 1 January 2024. Such residential units were previously 
exempt from VAT and was made liable to VAT at a rate of 
15%, from 1 January 2023. In addition, the social security 
contribution levy (SSCL) imposed at 2.5%, with effect from 
1 October 2022, remains in force. 
The year under review witnessed an encouraging recovery momentum 
in the real estate industry of Sri Lanka on the back of declines in inflation, 
interest rates and overall construction costs which peaked in 2022/23, 
supported by a stabilising exchange rate. This was in contrast to the 
previous financial year, which was challenging for the industry in Sri 
Lanka given the volatile and uncertain macroeconomic landscape 
that prevailed for most parts of the year. The inventory in the market 
witnessed a gradual absorption in tandem with market recovery, 
particularly in the fourth quarter of 2023/24, albeit with higher revenue-
based taxes, given the high replacement costs of the existing inventory. 
In line with trends witnessed in the overall real estate industry of Sri 
Lanka, the Property industry group witnessed an encouraging recovery 
in demand and sales of its real estate inventory during the year under 
review aided by an improvement in the overall macroeconomic 
conditions. The prevailing low interest rate regime, in particular, where 
consumers were able to access long-term funding at lower rates, 
aided this rebound. Additionally, a shift of funds from fixed income 
to real estate was noted due to low interest rates. The recovery was 
characterised by an uptick in the suburban and metropolitan apartment 
segments given their value proposition. This was evident in the 
encouraging traction on 'VIMAN', a suburban development project 
which the Group launched in September 2023, and 'TRI-ZEN' which is a 
metropolitan development project.  
The luxury apartment segment remained stagnant given the higher 
price points and resultantly higher impact of the VAT and SSCL on 
pricing. Sales for the luxury apartment segment are expected to attract 
renewed interest, particularly with the impending opening of 'City of 
Dreams Sri Lanka' which is slated for completion by the third quarter  
of 2024/25.
Interest in the commercial real estate market witnessed an improvement 
whilst mall operations witnessed an improved performance as a result 
of higher occupancies and a growth in footfall, in line with the sustained 
recovery in the macroeconomic environment. 
City of Dreams Sri Lanka
As detailed under the Leisure industry group, as part of the collaboration 
between JKH and Melco, the integrated resort, which had previously 
been branded as 'Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort', is now rebranded as 
'City of Dreams Sri Lanka'.
The construction work at the integrated resort progressed well during 
the year under review, with the hotel, gaming and retail components 
currently in the final stages of completion and fit-out. The project 
obtained a key approval in the third quarter of 2023/24 with the 
receipt of the Certificate of Conformity (COC) on building construction 
for the first 24 floors of the hotel complex, which will comprise of 
the 'Cinnamon Life' hotel, due to be launched in the third quarter of 
2024/25. The remainder of the integrated resort comprising of the 113-
key 'Nuwa' hotel, casino and the mall is slated for opening in mid-2025.
Refer the Leisure industry group for a discussion on the hotel, gaming and 
retail components on page 174.

184 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
PROPERTY
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
Residential and Office 
The sales momentum for the residential apartments at the 'City of Dreams 
Sri Lanka' integrated resort has been slow in line with the trends seen in 
the luxury segment in Colombo. The subdued demand for residential units 
was further impacted by the introduction of value added tax (VAT) and the 
social security contribution levy (SSCL) in the previous year, which increased 
the price of apartments by ~17.5%, although it had a greater impact on the 
luxury segment considering its higher price point. 
The sales momentum is expected to gradually pick-up given the 
completion of the integrated resort and the conclusion of many vital 
elements, including the gaming space. Further, the cost of constructing 
similar apartments today would be significantly higher, where existing 
units will be an attractive and valuable proposition with almost no new 
inventory in the luxury segment in the pipeline.
'The Suites 
at Cinnamon 
Life'
'The Residence 
at Cinnamon 
Life'
'The Offices at 
Cinnamon Life'
Structure
	y 39-storey 
tower 
	y Total of 196 
apartment 
units
	y 45-storey 
tower 
	y Total of 231 
apartments 
units
	y 30-storey tower
	y 24 floors 
allocated for 
outright sales 
and rent
	y Features five 
floors reserved 
for car parking 
Number of 
units sold/ 
occupied as 
at 31 March 
2024
109 units sold
(57% of total 
sellable area)
147 units sold
(70% of total 
sellable area)
	y Four floors sold 
outright
	y 10 floors rented
(58% of floors 
sold/occupied in 
total)
The sales of 'The Suites at Cinnamon Life' and 'The Residence at Cinnamon 
Life' stood at 65% of the total sellable area. As at 31 March 2024, ~97% 
of the residential units sold were handed over. There was no revenue 
recognised in lieu of residential sales during the year under review, as there 
were no new sales. 
The recognition of recurring revenue from the ten floors of 'The Offices at 
Cinnamon Life' that are leased out continued during the year under review. 
The business continued to engage with prospective tenants to occupy the 
remaining office space. 
TRI-ZEN
'TRI-ZEN', a residential development project which is located at the heart of 
the city, capitalises on the increasing demand for attractively priced, smart, 
and efficient living solutions. Positioned within the 'Metropolitan Spaces' 
segment, the project leverages on innovative designs, lucrative Rupee price 
points, space efficiency and the need for modern solutions for urban living. 
Marking a milestone for John Keells Properties, the 'TRI-ZEN' project, an 
891-unit residential development comprising of three towers, received the 
required clearances, including the Certificate of Conformity (CoC). Handing 
over of units has commenced from April 2024. 'TRI-ZEN' witnessed an 
encouraging momentum in sales during the current financial year, where 
the cumulative sales and purchase agreements (SPAs) signed for the  
'TRI-ZEN' residential development project increased by 45 units to 700 
units. Further traction in sales is expected given the completion of the 
project, the market adjusting to the new price levels in the industry, given 
the relatively higher replacement costs, and the easing interest rates.
INSIGHTS
Features
Details
Location
Ja-Ela, a suburban area in close proximity 
to Colombo
Land extent 
6 acres
Units
418 units – with equal distribution 
between 2 and 3 bedroom units
Structure 
Total of 10 blocks (G+4 floors) and each 
block will comprise between 36 to 60 units
Launch
In phases – Phase 1: 114 units (80% sold), 
Phase 2 and 3: 76 units each, Phase 4: 152 
units
Cumulative SPAs 
(as at 31 March 2024)
Phase 1: 94 SPAs of 114 units
Phase 2: 6 SPAs of 76 units
Completion 
Q3 2026/27 (all phases)
Collection
Will be in a phased-out manner.
Upon signing the SPA, an upfront payment of 
10%, subsequently 10%, 25%, 30% and 25%.
Revenue 
recognition
Based on the percentage of completion.
Amenities 
Swimming pool, gymnasium, meditation 
courts, clubhouse, a kids play area, cycling 
and walking spaces and a multipurpose 
outdoor sports court.
'TRI-ZEN' Cumulative Sales and Purchase Agreements (SPAs)
700 SPAs
[2022/23: 655 SPAs]
VIMAN
In September 2023, John Keells Properties launched its first suburban 
residential development project, 'VIMAN', located in the heart of Ja-Ela, a 
suburban area in close proximity to Colombo. The project was launched 
given the demand for suburban living spaces with the intention of 
effectively monetising the Group's existing land banks. Spread across 
six acres, offering a harmonious blend of modern comforts with 418 
apartments, 'VIMAN' is designed to provide a secure, family-friendly 
environment with convenient access to the city of Colombo through the 
Colombo Port Access highway, while retaining the charm of a small-
town setting. 
The project is built on the land which was previously occupied by 
the 'K-Zone Ja-Ela' mall. The mall was permanently shut down in 
January 2024 to facilitate the impending construction work of the new 
residential development project. The closure in the mall resulted in an 
asset write-off, as detailed in the ensuing Financial Performance Review 
section. Given the demand for suburban living spaces, the Group is 
of the view that the project is an optimum monetisation of such land 
through development and sales.  
The preliminary sales interest for the project has been very encouraging, 
with the first phase of the project consisting of a total of 114 units, nearly 
sold out within six months since the launch of the project in September 
2023. Given the traction for the project, the second phase was launched 
in March 2024. The construction of the first phase of the project is 
expected to commence mid-2024.

185
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Rajawella Holdings Limited (RHL)
RHL possesses a vast land bank within the 'Victoria Golf Resort' in Digana, which includes scenic land parcels, townhouses and villa developments, 
including a golf course under the management of Troon International. 
RHL Property Management
RHL Property Development
Peacock Valley
Sunrise Ridge
Mara Ridge
Ridgeview 
(previously 
Peninsula)
Offerings at RHL
	y Operation of a golf course in partnership with 
Troon International.
	y Management of the 'Victoria Golf Resort'.
9 land plots 
(100% sold)
16 land plots 
with villas (80% 
sold)
4 land plots 
(100% sold)
18 land plots
Performance during 
the year
	y Operations noted an improvement 
with increases in room nights and other 
supplementary services aided by higher footfall.
	y
RHL rebranded the development project named 'Peninsula' as 
'Rigdeview', which offers 18 exclusive land plots. 
	y
The construction of 'Sunrise Ridge' villas progressed well during the 
year with hotel operations for the 16 villas expected to commence 
in Q1 2024/25. The sale of land plots was challenging given the 
high construction costs. The sales of the remaining land plots are 
expected to pick up in tandem with the commencement of hotel 
operations at 'Sunrise Ridge'.
Mall Operations
During 2023/24, mall operations witnessed a recovery given the easing 
of macroeconomic challenges in comparison to the previous financial 
year. Occupancy at 'Crescat Boulevard' stood at an encouraging 85% at 
the end of 2023/24 [2022/23: 73%] and recorded an increase in footfall 
by 16%. The 'K-Zone Moratuwa' mall remained at full occupancy during 
the year under review. 
As mentioned, the 'K-Zone Ja-Ela' mall was closed in January 2024, as the 
land will be re-purposed for the latest residential development project 
'VIMAN'.
Land Banking Strategy
The contiguous 9.38 acre property owned by Vauxhall Land 
Developments Limited (VLDL), a fully owned subsidiary of the Group 
is one of the largest privately held land banks in central Colombo 
and is within a proposed zoning area identified under the Beira Lake 
Development Plan of the Urban Development Authority (UDA). The 
strategic location in the heart of Colombo city allows for a large-scale 
development with views over the Beira Lake. This property is a part of 
the Group's land banking strategy, where strategic land parcels were 
identified in order to capitalise on opportunities arising in the real estate 
and property development industry. As outlined in the 2021/22 Annual 
Report, a metropolitan development project has been earmarked for 
this property, subject to market conditions, to ensure a steady cycle of 
revenue recognition through the planned monetisation of the Group's 
land bank. 
The Group also continues to explore investment opportunities in the 
emerging suburban areas of Colombo to include in the industry group's 
'Suburban Spaces' segment, given the growing demand and potential 
in the suburban market on account of the high prices associated with 
residential apartments in Colombo. The 12 acre land bank in Thudella in 
the Group's existing portfolio of freehold land provides an opportunity 
to venture further into this segment.
Model unit of 'VIMAN'.

186 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
PROPERTY
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
Financial Performance Review
Income Statement Indicators  
Rs.million
2023/24
2022/23
%
Revenue* 
Property Development  
4,688 
         3,926 
19
Property Management
546
               651 
(16)
Total
5,234 
         4,577 
14
*Including share of revenue of equity accounted investees. 
Property Development
	y
'TRI-ZEN' recognised revenue during the year based on apartment 
sales and the completion of construction work. Sales recorded 
an encouraging momentum during the year in tandem with the 
recovery in the macroeconomic environment with 45 sales and 
purchase agreements (SPAs) signed. 
	y
The revenue of the Property Development sector includes rental 
income from the leasing of ten floors of 'The Offices at Cinnamon Life'. 
	y
The previous year includes revenue recognition from real estate sales 
in Digana, through Rajawella Holdings (Private) Limited whilst no 
sales were recorded during the year under review. 
Property Management
	y
Mall operations witnessed a recovery driven by higher footfall during 
the year under review, with the easing of macroeconomic challenges 
in comparison to the previous year. Occupancy levels at 'Crescat 
Boulevard' increased to 85% as at the end of 2023/24 in comparison 
to 73% in 2022/23.
	y
The 'K-Zone' mall in Ja-Ela, held under John Keells Properties Ja-Ela 
(Private) Limited, was permanently shut down in January 2024 to 
facilitate the impending construction work for the new residential 
development project 'VIMAN', which is being built on the land 
occupied by the mall.
Rs.million
2023/24
2022/23
%
EBITDA*
Property Development  
(105)
(440)
76
Property Management
(717)
225
(419)
Total
(822)
(215)
(282)
PBT**
Property Development  
(66)
       (2,294)
97
Property Management
(791)
            159 
(597)
Total 
(857)
           (2,135)
60
*EBITDA includes interest income and the share of results of equity accounted investees 
which is based on the share of profit after tax but excludes all impacts from foreign 
currency exchange gains and losses (other than for equity accounted investees), to 
demonstrate the underlying cash operational performance of businesses.
**Share of results of equity accounted investees are shown net of all taxes.
	y
The Property industry group EBITDA includes an asset write-off, 
under other operating expenses, amounting to Rs.639 million on 
account of the closure of the 'K-Zone' mall in Ja-Ela, under the 
Property Management sector, in connection with the 'VIMAN' 
development as explained in this Report. Excluding the write-off, the 
Property industry group EBITDA was negative Rs.183 million.    
	y
Although recording a negative EBITDA, the improvement in EBITDA 
of the Property Development sector, as against the previous year, 
primarily stemmed from higher revenue recognition at 'TRI-ZEN'. The 
profitability of 'TRI-ZEN', which records the Group's share of profit 
after tax as it is an equity accounted investee, was impacted by 
higher finance expenses on account of higher temporary working 
capital requirements. In addition, profitability was impacted by 
approved cost escalations in the project, which was allocated to the 
profit recognition in the fourth quarter of the year. 
	y
Discussions on EBITDA for the Property industry group are inclusive 
of fair value gains/losses on investment property (IP). The Group is of 
the view that fair value gains/losses on IP are integral to the industry 
group's core operations, given the land banking strategy and the 
intention of monetising such land through development and sales. 
•	 The fair value gains/losses on IP for the industry group amounted 
to a gain of Rs.233 million in 2023/24 in comparison to the gain of 
Rs.525 million recorded in 2022/23. 
	y
The PBT of the industry group increased on account of exchange 
gains recognised at Waterfront Properties (Private) Limited (WPL) 
on contractor settlements due to the appreciation of the Rupee 
subsequent to the accounting treatment post conversion of the 
functional reporting currency of WPL to Rupees. 
It should be noted that in 2022/23, the PBT of the industry group 
was impacted on account of the one-off exchange losses on sales 
collections at 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka', for which the corresponding 
revenue was recognised in 2021/22. 
Balance Sheet Indicators
Rs.million
2023/24
2022/23
%
Assets
Property Development  
 73,041 
82,578
(12)
Property Management
 11,478 
11,743 
(2)
Total
 84,519 
94,321
(10)
Debt*
Property Development  
714 
763
(6)
Property Management
319 
398
(20)
Total
1,033 
 1,161 
(11)
*Excludes lease liabilities.
	y
The decline in assets in the Property Development sector is on 
account of WPL. Current assets at WPL recorded a decline on account 
of short-term investments utilised towards contractor settlements 
and other project-related expenses. 
	y
The debt of the Property industry group declined by 11% due to loan 
repayments in the businesses. 
Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) Analysis
ROCE
(%)
=
EBIT 
margin 
(%)
x
Asset 
turnover
x
Capital 
structure 
leverage
2023/24
(1.1)
(17.6)
0.06
1.06
2022/23 
(0.2) 
(6.7) 
0.02 
1.03
	y
The decline in the ROCE is mainly due to the decline in EBIT margins 
stemming from the asset write-off at the 'K-Zone' mall in Ja-Ela. 
Excluding the asset write-off, ROCE stood at (0.3)%.

187
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Outlook and Risks
The resurgence in demand for real estate among homeowners is poised 
to sustain the upward trajectory witnessed in the latter parts of 2023/24. 
Growth is expected to emanate from a favourable macro environment 
marked by lower interest rates, stabilised inflation, a notable increase 
in consumer confidence and increased investor interest in real estate 
as a long-term investment option, especially from the flight of funds 
to alternative investments given the low interest rates on fixed income 
securities. In the short-term, the immediate upside is expected to be 
confined to units in the metropolitan and suburban segments, while 
demand in the luxury market may take longer to stabilise and recover. 
However, the opening of 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka' and the resultant 
opportunities that materialise will create significant upside for sales in 
the luxury segment, more than offsetting the temporary moderation.
Looking beyond, the Group is of the view that the underlying 
fundamentals of the Property industry group remain strong and 
continue to be promising.
Note: The property development components of 'City of Dreams 
Sri Lanka' (previously referred to as the 'Cinnamon Life Integrated 
Resort' project), namely, the two residential apartment towers and the 
commercial tower, are recorded under the Property industry group. The 
review and reporting of the hotel, retail and entertainment components 
of the project are captured under the Leisure industry group.
Key risks, trends and opportunities relevant to the industry group:
Immediate to Short-Term
Demand and supply dynamics:
	y
Buyer interest and momentum in sales witnessed during the 
current financial year is envisaged to continue given the conducive 
macroeconomic environment and market adjustments to new price 
levels in the industry, on the back of relatively higher replacement 
costs.  
	y
In addition to the envisaged positive performance industry-wide, 
sales at the 'TRI-ZEN' development will also benefit from the 
completion of the project, due shortly as detailed below.
	y
The sales momentum of the residential apartments at 'City of 
Dreams Sri Lanka' has been lacklustre in line with the trends seen 
in the luxury segments of the industry. However, a gradual pickup 
in sales momentum is envisaged, in tandem with an improvement 
in consumer and business confidence. The impending opening 
of the integrated resort coupled with a notable slowdown in the 
condominium pipeline, with limited additions in the luxury segment, 
is also expected to aid growth. 
	y
The Group will continue to assess the performance of the malls and 
engage with tenants to optimise return. Footfall and occupancy 
at malls are envisaged to continue on the gradual upward trend 
observed in 2023/24.
Completion timelines and project pipeline:
	y
As detailed under the Leisure industry group, as a part of the 
collaboration between JKH and Melco, the 'Cinnamon Life Integrated 
Resort', was rebranded as 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka'. The construction 
work at the property is at the tail end, with the hotel, retail and 
gaming components currently in the final stages of construction. The 
fit-out and interior works of the hotel rooms and common areas are 
well underway, with complete construction completion slated for the 
third quarter of 2024/25.
	y
Marking a milestone for John Keells Properties, the 'TRI-ZEN' project, 
an 891-unit residential development comprising of three towers, 
received the required clearances, including the Certificate of 
Conformity (CoC). Handing over of units has commenced from  
April 2024. 
	y
Potential opportunities stemming from the opening of an 
integrated resort in Colombo, as outlined under the Leisure 
industry group outlook.
	y
Limited new supply entering the market in the short-term due 
to steep increases in prices
	y
Emerging demand for properties in suburban areas
	y
Increasing urbanisation and connectivity
	y
Increasing demand for mid-tier housing units within Colombo
	y
Increasing demand for commercial space
	y
Increase in demand of apartments versus landed housing in 
line with regional peers
	y
Macroeconomic and political environment*
•	 Continued reduction in customer purchasing power
•	 Changes in regulatory environment*
	y
Supply chain disruptions*
•	 Potential increase in construction costs stemming from 
geopolitical tensions, global impacts and domestic 
developments 
	y
Financial exposure*, in particular exchange rate volatility
	y
Human resources and talent management*
•	 Shortages in skilled and technical workers
	y
Climate risks*
	y
Environment and health & safety*
	y
Information technology*
	y
Reputation and brand image*
Trends and Opportunities
Risks
*Identified as a risk across the Group through the Group's Enterprise Risk Management 
framework. Refer Key Risks section under Outlook and Risks for a detailed discussion.

188 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
	y
Construction of the first phase of the Group's first foray into the 
suburban market, 'VIMAN' which is located in Ja-ela, is expected to 
commence mid-2024. The project comprises of four phases with 
expectation that the entirety will be concluded by the third quarter 
of 2026/27.
	y
The Group will continue to explore investment opportunities in the 
emerging suburban areas of Colombo to expand into this segment, 
given the growing demand and potential of the suburban market on 
account of the high prices associated with residential apartments in 
Colombo. The Group is evaluating the potential for an opportunity 
at the 12-acre land bank in Thudella (a part of the Group's existing 
portfolio) to venture further into this segment.
	y
The Group is of the view that the existing land bank is adequate 
to sustain a steady pipeline of projects in the long-term, especially 
given the 9.38 acre property held under Vauxhall Land Developments 
(Private) Limited (VLDL). As such, the Group will continue to focus 
on the monetisation of this extensive land bank. Given these 
circumstances, the Group does not foresee the deployment of 
significant capital in the Property industry group. 
	y
Strategic land parcels at VLDL have already been identified in order to 
capitalise on monetising opportunities. 
	y
The Group has already commenced the gradual monetisation of 
the land bank in Digana, through various real estate products under 
Rajawella Holdings (Private) Limited, which include scenic land 
parcels, townhouses and villa developments, as discussed under the 
Operational Review.
Medium to Long-Term
Considering evolving business models, the Property business will assess 
the business landscape to understand possible lasting shifts in real estate 
demand. These include the various means by which properties can be 
built in tandem with such shifts and how properties would be priced, 
amongst others. Notwithstanding this and looking beyond the current 
macroeconomic landscape and the fiscal consolidation process, aspects 
such as increasing demand for commercial and residential spaces, an 
emerging middle-class demographic, a pipeline of public infrastructure 
projects, increasing urbanisation and connectivity are envisaged to drive 
long-term growth in the property and real estate sectors. The 'City of 
Dreams Sri Lanka' integrated resort is also envisaged to drive growth in 
Colombo. 
Residential Real Estate
	y
Prospects for the housing market in Colombo and the suburbs 
continue to be promising on the back of drivers such as the 
expanding middle-class demographic, increased commercial activity 
within Colombo and potential for increased GDP per capita.
	y
Recent investments and infrastructure spending channelled towards 
enhancing connectivity to the commercial centres of the country, 
will accelerate demand in these areas and outer regions.
	y
With individuals increasingly moving towards urban areas, there is 
a robust and emerging market for mid-tier, multi-family housing 
solutions within and in close proximity to such commercial hubs.
	y
The market for vertical and middle-income housing, in particular, is 
expected to experience significant growth, in line with the trajectory 
of its regional peers, given increasing land prices in Colombo and the 
high costs associated with the construction of single-family houses. 
The proportion of landed housing to apartments within Colombo 
is notably higher than its regional peers, indicating the need and 
potential for smart housing solutions at affordable price points.
~60-70 per cent of housing in regional mega cities, both luxury 
and mid-tier, are predominantly apartments. However, apartment 
living in Colombo is ~10 per cent, despite the scarcity of land in 
the city, representing an opportunity within the market.
Source: Company Analysis
	y
The Group will leverage on its high brand equity and expertise in  
the industry to exploit such opportunities through projects such as  
'TRI-ZEN' as well as other projects under the 'Metropolitan' and 
'Suburban' segments. The latter in particular is expected to 
see substantial growth with the expansion of transportation 
infrastructure leading to better connectivity. Demand in the 
'Metropolitan' segment is also envisaged to grow in the medium to 
long-term.
	y
The Group expects to monetise its extensive lank bank of prime 
real estate in Colombo and the suburbs to generate returns above 
the Group hurdle rates over the next 8-10 years given the scale and 
staggered development of the projects envisaged.
Commercial Real Estate
	y
The opportunity for high-end 'A-Grade' office space is more 
pronounced as more global companies move to establish offices 
within the city, especially in the financial services and business 
process outsourcing (BPO) sectors. 
	y
The transformation of Colombo as a financial and commercial hub 
through large-scale investment projects such as Port City Colombo 
coupled with an increase in business activity is envisaged to drive 
demand in this segment. The absence of adequate infrastructure 
and management facilities of the current supply, in comparison to 
modern workspaces, also presents an opportunity.
	y
 Based on market opportunity, the industry group will continue to 
expand its commercial real estate offering at the appropriate time at 
attractive price points.
PROPERTY
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
(%)
(%)
Greater
Colombo
Singapore
Thailand
(Central
Bangkok)
Thailand
(Outskirts)
Malaysia
(Central KL)
Malaysia
(Greater KL)
India
(Chennai)
India
(Bangalore)
0
20
40
60
80
100
Apartments
Landed houses
90
10
95
5
80
20
60
40
70
30
50
50
55
45
65
35
Mix of apartments and landed housing in regional mega cities
Mix of apartments and landed housing in regional mega cities

Insurance
	y
Comprehensive life insurance solutions through 
Union Assurance PLC (UA).
•	 Fourth largest life insurer with over ~289,000 lives 
insured.
•	 Largest bancassurance provider. 
	y
General insurance solutions through Fairfirst 
Insurance Limited (FIL).
Banking
	y
End-to-end banking solutions through Nations Trust 
Bank PLC (NTB).
•	 Network of branches for commercial banking. 
•	 Sole acquirer of the flagship centurion product 
range of 'American Express' cards in Sri Lanka.
Stockbroking
	y
Stockbroking services through John Keells Stock 
Brokers (Private) Limited (JKSB). 
FINANCIAL SERVICES 
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
2023/24
2022/23
2021/22
Operational Highlights 1
UA - Market share
%
12 
12 
12 
   GWP growth
%
13 
8 
18 
NTB - Loan growth
%
12 
(3)
18 
        Net interest margins
%
7.7
7.0 
3.9 
        Stage 3 loan ratio (net)
%
2.3 
2.6 
2.1 
Financial and Manufactured Capital
Revenue 2
Rs.million
 33,336 
 27,770 
 24,149 
EBITDA
Rs.million
 9,296 
 6,802 
 5,024 
PBT
Rs.million
 9,293 
 6,751 
 4,995 
PAT
Rs.million
 7,794 
 5,673 
 4,314 
Total assets
Rs.million
 104,453 
 86,475 
 74,248 
Total equity
Rs.million
 28,263 
 22,184 
 17,100 
Total debt 3
Rs.million
 75 
 141 
 161 
Capital employed 4
Rs.million
 28,745 
 22,743 
 17,705 
Natural Capital
Energy consumption 
kWh
1,516,760
1,391,813
1,259,467
Energy consumption per operational 
intensity factor
kWh per 
Rs.million
81.26
85.89
80.29
Carbon footprint
MT
1061.00
988.65
884.75
Carbon footprint per operational 
intensity factor
MT per 
Rs.million
0.06
0.06
0.06
Water withdrawal 
m3
15,994
14,519
14,818
Water withdrawal per operational 
intensity factor
m3 per 
Rs.million
0.86
0.90
0.94
Volume of hazardous waste generated kg
0
0
0
Volume of non hazardous waste 
generated
kg
4,155
4,205
4,043
Waste generated per operational 
intensity factor
kg per 
Rs.million
0.22
0.26
0.26 
Human Capital
Total Workforce (employees and 
contractors' staff)
No.
4,190
4,515
4,708
EBIT per employee 
Rs.million
12
8
6
Average training per employee
hours
13.89
13.60
2.00
Total Attrition
%
44
35
42.3
Females employee
%
50.4
48.8
47.5
Total injuries
No.
0
0
9
Social and Relationship Capital
Community Services and Infrastructure 
Projects5
Rs.'000
 8,813
 5,546 
 3,511 
1.	 Key performance indicators for the calender year
2.	 Revenue is inclusive of the Group's share of equity accounted investees.
3.	 Excludes lease liabilities.
4.	 For equity accounted investees, capital employed is representative of the Group's equity investment in 
these companies. This is inclusive of lease liabilities.
5.	 Only the contribution to John Keells Foundation.
Contribution to the John Keells Group
11%
27%
5%
1%
Revenue
EBIT
Capital Employed
Carbon Footprint
189
189
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information

190 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
190 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2022/23
External Environment and Operational Review
Macroeconomic Update
	y
Sri Lanka's financial services industry recorded a contraction of 
10% in CY2023 [CY2022: 11% decline], accounting for 5% of GDP 
during the year [CY2022: 5%].
Key Policy and Regulatory Highlights
	y
In March 2024, the Monetary Policy Board of the Central Bank 
of Sri Lanka decided to reduce the Standing Deposit Facility 
Rate (SDFR) and the Standing Lending Facility rate (SLFR) by 50 
basis points each to 8.50% and 9.50%, respectively. During the 
year under review, five downward revisions were undertaken, 
reducing rates by a total of 700 basis points each. 
	y
The Statutory Reserve Ratio (SRR) applicable on all Rupee 
deposit liabilities of Licensed Commercial Banks (LCBs) was 
reduced by 200 basis points, from 4% to 2%, with effect from the 
reserve maintenance period commencing on 16 August 2023.
	y
The Insurance Regulatory Commission of Sri Lanka (IRCSL) 
issued several directions to strengthen the regulatory 
framework. These directives included enactments related to 
appointment, election or nomination of directors, changes 
to reporting framework and roles and responsibilities of the 
principal officer. 
	y
The effective date for the implementation of the SLFRS 17, the 
accounting standard on Insurance Contracts, was deferred to  
1 January 2026. 
	y
The corporate tax rate on financial services remained at 30% 
whilst the standard value added tax (VAT) rate was increased 
from 15% to 18% during the year under review.
	y
Key directives of the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE):
•	 Regulated short selling (RSS) and stock borrowing and 
lending (SBL) were introduced by the CSE with the aim 
of enhancing trading opportunities, promoting market 
efficiency, liquidity and investor confidence, while aligning 
with international standards and practices. This initiative came 
into effect on 6 November 2023. 
•	 Regulations to facilitate the issuing, listing and trading of 
infrastructure bonds, Shariah compliant debt securities, shares 
of state-owned enterprises, Green bonds and perpetual debt 
securities.
•	 Amendments to the Listing Rules of the CSE covering the 
areas of governance, continuous listing requirements and 
enforcements.
•	 Amendment, restructure and re-titling of Stockbroker Rules 
as trading participant rules and implementation of dispute 
resolution rules.
FINANCIAL SERVICES
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
Macroeconomic Update - Insurance
	y
The insurance industry recorded total assets at Rs.1,087.57 billion 
in CY2023, a 15% growth against the previous year [CY2022: 
Rs.947.26 billion], while gross written premium (GWP) recorded a 
9% increase to Rs.280.96 billion [CY2022: Rs.257.58 billion]. 
	y
The long-term insurance industry recorded a 13% growth in 
GWP during CY2023, which amounted to Rs.152.80 billion 
[CY2022: Rs.135.37 billion]. 
Insurance 
UA recorded a strong performance during CY2023 with a 13% increase 
in gross written premium (GWP), supported by an increase in regular 
new business premiums and renewal premiums, as illustrated below. 
Annualised new business premium (ANBP) increased by 18% to Rs.7.6 
billion [CY2022: 6.4 billion]. Improvement in both GWP and ANBP 
was driven by growth across agency, bancassurance and alternate 
distribution channels.  
GWP 
CY2023
Total 
(Rs.million)
Growth
(%)
First year premium  
(regular new business premium)
5,501
18
Renewal premium
12,625
11
Single premium
60
(68)
Individual policies
18,186
12
	y
The agency channel accounted for 74% of GWP. The channel 
expanded its reach by relocating branches and enhanced customer 
satisfaction through branch upgrades. 
	y
The alternate channel's GWP growth of 105% was supported by the 
performance of the corporate channel and the policy conservation 
unit. The policy conservation unit, which was established at the onset 
of CY2023, focused on reactivating lapsed policies and implemented 
a proactive approach of discouraging surrender calls to effectively 
manage surrender payouts.
	y
UA retained its position as the market leader in the bancassurance 
industry in Sri Lanka, amidst heightened banking penetration 
facilitated by strategic bancassurance partnerships with leading 
banks. The bancassurance channel demonstrated encouraging 
progress, with a 26% increase in ANBP and a 27% growth in GWP. 
Net investment income increased by 45% [CY2022: 42%] to Rs.10.8 billion 
[CY2022: Rs.7.5 billion], supported by both the asset allocation strategy 
and higher interest rates that prevailed during the first half of CY2023. 
Despite the challenging market conditions, the business continued to 
maintain a strong solvency position with the capital adequacy ratio (CAR) 
at 291% as at CY2023 [CY2022: 194%]. Despite the initial pressure from the 
high interest rate environment, the CAR continued to remain comfortably 
above the minimum threshold of 120% stipulated by the IRCSL. 

191
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
The 'Clicklife' self-servicing app, a turnkey end-to-end digital insurance 
solution, continued its encouraging performance trajectory by providing 
customers greater remote accessibility and added service features. An 
artificial intelligence (AI) powered calorie counter and a physical activity 
tracker were included and the loyalty programme was expanded to 
cover over 129 partner outlets. Moreover, a set of new self-servicing 
features were introduced during the year, such as applying for a policy 
loan, requesting e-policy documents, and receiving dividend and bonus 
letters. This is in addition to the existing self-servicing features such as 
paying premiums, downloading policy-related documents, accessing 
policy details, submitting claims, and policy documents, facilitating 
cashless hospitalisation and channelling physicians, in an effort to make 
'Clicklife' a one-stop shop eco-system for insurance and wellness needs 
of UA's customers. 
UA launched the product, 'Smart Wealth Builder', a fund accumulation 
universal life product with a loyalty bonus at maturity and an option of 
premium payment spread over five years.
UA also continued to digitise its processes which led to significant 
operational efficiencies with straight through processing (STP) at 53% 
and one-day claim settlements at 94%. Enhanced process improvements 
were facilitated through:
	y
digital end-to-end selling platform – digital advisor toolkit (DAT) was 
enhanced with added features to further simplify the selling process, 
and
	y
upgraded 'FAME', a web-enabled sales force management system, to 
facilitate digitally streamlined activity management and lead-to-cash 
customer journey. 'FAME' provides crucial insights for assessing agent 
performance, projecting business outcomes and has proved to be a 
valuable tool for the sales force. 
Further to the completion of the contractual tenure of Mr. Jude Gomes 
as Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Senath Jayatilake was appointed as the 
new Chief Executive Officer, effective 1 January 2024.
Total assets stood at Rs.95.67 billion as at CY2023 [CY2022: Rs.75.97 
billion], recording a growth rate of 26%. UA's investment portfolio stood 
at Rs.83.42 billion [CY2022: Rs.64.46 billion] recording a 29% growth in 
CY2023. The life fund, which is backed by reputed re-insurers with an 
international credit rating of 'A+' and above, recorded an 18% growth to 
Rs.64.13 billion [CY2022: Rs.54.52 billion].  
Underwriting and net acquisition costs (net of reinsurance) were limited 
to a 12% increase amounting to Rs.3.54 billion [CY2022: Rs.3.15 billion] 
through the implementation of a new incentive scheme that drives volume 
and profitability. Other operating, administrative and selling expenses' 
growth was curtailed to 10% despite significant inflation in the first half 
of CY2023. This was enabled by the rigorous monitoring of expenditure 
and implementation of cost-saving and optimisation initiatives. Claims 
and benefits to policyholders recorded an 18% increase to Rs.6.70 billion 
[CY2022: Rs.5.70 billion] mainly due to an increase in surrender payouts 
stemming largely from adverse macroeconomic conditions. The increase in 
maturity payouts was in line with contractual obligations.
The Life Insurance business recorded a life insurance surplus of  
Rs.2.80 billion [CY2022: Rs.2.30 billion]. Distribution of a one-off surplus 
of Rs.3.38 billion, attributable to non-participating and non-unit fund 
of unit-linked business, was transferred from the life policyholder fund 
to the life shareholder fund in 2017/18 based on the directive dated 20 
March 2018 issued by IRCSL. This continues to remain restricted subject 
to meeting governance requirements stipulated by the IRCSL and can 
only be released upon receiving approval from the IRCSL. 
UA's SLFRS-17 steering committee continued to make headway 
to ensure strategic, tactical, and operational readiness for the 
implementation of SLFRS-17. During the year, the SLFRS-17 steering 
committee examined the implementation roadmap in order to meet the 
new effective date of 1 January 2026.
During the year, UA proactively took steps to comply with the 
requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act No.09 of 2022 
(PDPA), given the substantial volume of personal data processed in 
relation to insurance service provision. In this regard, UA devised a 
roadmap in CY2021, and preliminary measures were undertaken in 
CY2022, including raising awareness on PDPA among key stakeholders. 
Recognising the necessity for further action, a comprehensive gap 
assessment on PDPA compliance was initiated during the year to ensure 
full compliance by the PDPA's effective date of 18 March 2025.
SLFRS-17 steering committee roadmap and progress
Phase 1
Phase 2
Phase 3
Phase 4
Phase 5
Formulation of project 
team
Selection of SLFRS-17 
software vendor and 
implementation consultant
Testing and parallel runs
Gap assessment and 
evaluation
Data readiness and drafting position 
papers and accounting policies
System Installation, configuration, 
integration
Generation of opening balances 
and disclosures
  Completed 
 
  In progress 
 
  To be commenced
CY21
CY23
CY25
CY22
CY24

192 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
	y
 Among the 'Top 100 Most Valuable Brands in Sri Lanka' at the 
'LMD Awards' in partnership with 'Brand Finance' for the 15th 
consecutive year.  
	y
 'Best Brand of the Year' award at 'Pinnacles Sri Lanka 2022'.
AWARDS
Macroeconomic Update - Banking
	y
Total banking assets of the industry noted a 5% growth during 
CY2023 in comparison to the 15% growth recorded in CY2022 
mainly due to the conversion of foreign currency denominated 
loans and receivables and investments to Rupees, with the 
appreciation of the exchange rate. Net interest income noted a 
5% contraction during the year.
	y
The banking sector stage 3 (credit-impaired) loans increased to 
12.8% in CY2023 in comparison to 11.3% recorded in CY2022. 
Banking 
NTB recorded a strong performance whilst maintaining healthy asset 
quality and liquidity, notwithstanding the volatile macroeconomic 
conditions that prevailed particularly in the first half of CY2023. The 
Bank's strategic focus during the recent years on redefining its business 
model, which involved de-risking selected asset classes, enhancing 
cost efficiencies and expanding digital banking products, supported its 
robust performance in CY2023. 
During the year, interest income increased by 30% to Rs.70.55 billion, 
driven by loan growth and increased returns on its investments in 
Government securities due to higher interest rates that prevailed during 
the first half of CY2023. The Bank's loan portfolio growth was recorded 
at 12%, versus a 5% contraction in industry loan growth. To effectively 
manage funding costs, the Bank undertook proactive measures, notably 
limiting exposure to high interest-bearing time deposits to short tenures 
which facilitated a swift downward re-pricing of its deposit base as 
interest rates declined towards the latter half of the year. Consequently, 
even though interest expenses increased from Rs.25.24 billion in CY2022 
to Rs.35.61 billion in CY2023, the Bank recorded a net interest income 
(NII) growth of 19% to Rs.34.60 billion. The net interest margin (NIM) 
increased from 7.0% in CY2022 to 7.7% in CY2023. 
The Bank maintained asset quality by adopting a prudent approach 
to provisioning, resulting in a notable 46% lower impairment charge, 
totalling to Rs.7.50 billion in CY2023 [CY2022: Rs.13.84 billion]. NTB's 
strategy for preserving portfolio quality is comprehensive and includes 
a selective and data-driven lending approach, robust monitoring 
through data analytics, personalised engagement with customers, and 
the implementation of tailored repayment plans to address individual 
customer needs. As a result, the Bank's stage 3 loan ratio stood at 2.3% in 
CY2023 [CY2022: 2.6%] significantly below the industry average. Further, 
the Bank's stage 3 provision cover ratio (impairment/loan cover) stood 
at 55.3% as at CY2023 in comparison to 50.7% in CY2022, reflective of 
its prudent provisioning practices. The Bank's tier 1 and overall capital 
adequacy ratios improved to 17.52% and 19.07%, respectively as at the 
year end, in comparison to 14.21% and 16.31%, respectively in CY2022.
Total operating expenses of the Bank were recorded at Rs.14.07 billion in 
CY2023 in comparison to Rs.11.59 billion recorded in CY2022, primarily 
attributable to increases in personnel and other operating expenses, 
which increased by 24% and 25%, respectively. Personnel expenses 
increased during the year due to the Bank's commitment to equitable 
compensation to employees and other operating expenses increased 
predominantly due to adjustments to electricity tariffs. Despite a 22% 
rise in operating expenses, the Bank maintained a cost-to-income ratio 
of 31:69 in CY2023, which was a marginal increase from the 30:70 ratio 
recorded in CY2022.
The Bank's digital transactions increased by 16% and accounted for 96% 
of total transactions [CY2022: 92%]. The Bank continued to provide its 
customers with value added services and upgrades to its digital banking 
services through the 'Nations Direct' mobile banking app and online 
banking services. NTB also launched the 'Nations Direct Self Onboarding 
Platform' to accommodate end-to-end, unassisted customer onboarding 
across multiple platforms. This is in line with its vision to digitise the 
entire customer lifecycle management process. 'FriMi', the Bank's 
fully fledged digital banking experience, continued to strengthen its 
market leadership position through innovative payment solutions and 
deepening relationships across the value chain.
The Group currently holds a 19.72% stake of voting shares in NTB. The 
Director of Bank Supervision of the CBSL had communicated that, 
pursuant to a decision by the Monetary Board of the CBSL, the John 
Keells Group was required to reduce its shareholding in the Bank to 15% 
on or before 31 December 2022. Until shareholding is reduced to 15%, a 
restriction on voting rights on any shares held over and above the 15% 
applies to the Group. JKH has requested for an extension of the deadline 
from the CBSL and is awaiting a formal response from the CBSL. 
Mr. Gihan Cooray retired as a Director and Chairman of the Board, 
having served the stipulated maximum nine-year tenure as a director 
of the Bank in compliance with Direction No. 3(2)(ii) (A) of the Rules of 
Corporate Governance for Licensed Commercial Banks issued by the 
CBSL. Ms. Sherin Cader took over as the Chairperson of the Board of 
Directors, with effect from 1 May 2023.  
	y
'FriMi' was ranked amongst the top 3 'Most Loved Brands' in the 
FINTECH category by LMD Brand Finance for the 3rd consecutive 
year.
	y
The Bank received the following awards at the Federation 
of Information Technology Industry Sri Lanka (FITIS) Digital 
Excellence Awards 2023:
•	 Gold award – 'Nations Direct' mobile and online banking 
platform in the Consumer Digital Engagement category
•	 Silver award – Omni Channel Experience 
•	 Silver award – Innovative Digital Service 
•	 Silver award – 'FriMi' in the digital marketing strategy category
•	 Bronze award – Customer-centric Process Automation for the 
Bank's digital self-onboarding and disaster recovery planning 
(DRP) automation platform 
AWARDS
FINANCIAL SERVICES
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW

193
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
	y
Underwriting and net acquisition costs increased by 16% to Rs.3.63 
billion in line with growth in GWP.
	y
The Insurance sector witnessed an increase in net investment income, 
which grew by 31% [2022/23: 57%]. This was driven by an increase 
in interest income from Government securities as a result of efficient 
fixed income management, asset reallocation and higher interest rate 
environment.
	y
UA's expense ratio increased to 26% in 2023/24 in comparison to 
25% recorded in 2022/23. The expense ratio remained stable year-
on-year given prudent expense management, cost containment and 
optimisation initiatives implemented by the business. 
	y
Life insurance contract liabilities including unit-linked funds increased 
by 18% to Rs.69.50 billion in line with growth of the business.
	y
UA recorded an annual life insurance surplus of Rs.2.80 billion in 
2023/24 compared to Rs.2.30 billion in 2022/23.
Banking 
	y
NTB recorded a strong increase in profitability driven by loan growth 
of 12% and net interest income growth of 5%, supported by effective 
management of its cost of funds.
	y
The Stage 3 loan ratio improved to 2.2% [2022/23: 3.4%] given the 
Bank's focused risk management strategies and recovery efforts 
leading to a lower impairment charge on loans and advances.  
	y
Despite the efficiency focused culture and cost management strategies 
established, the cost to income (CI) ratio increased to 32% from 29% in 
the previous year, primarily due to the slowdown in operating income 
growth on account of the reduction in market interest rates. 
	y
Profitability also benefited from the absence of impairment charges on 
Sri Lankan Government foreign securities given the higher provisioning 
adopted by NTB, relative to its peers, in the previous year. 
Stock Broking 
	y
The stock market displayed subdued performance on the back of 
decreased foreign participation due to macroeconomic uncertainty, 
with the average daily market turnover declining by 43% compared to 
the previous year. This resulted in the business recording a reduction in 
revenue.  
	y
During the year under review, the increase in staff related expenses was 
due to new staff being recruited, as the business engaged in succession 
planning. However, the business continued to focus on improving revenue 
from the retail segment. The implementation of several initiatives targeted 
at managing operational costs led to increased productivity. 
The recurring PBT of the industry group, post adjusting for the deferred 
tax provisions of equity accounted investees and one-off impacts from 
performance related initiatives stood at Rs.9.30 billion [2022/23: Rs.6.40 billion].
Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) Analysis
ROCE
(%)
=
EBIT 
margin 
(%)
x
Asset 
turnover
x
Capital 
structure 
leverage
2023/24
36.1
27.9
0.35
3.71
2022/23 
33.4
24.3
0.35 
3.97
The increase in the ROCE and EBIT margin of the Financial Services 
industry group was driven by an increase in revenue from NTB and UA. 
The capital structure leverage was impacted by the higher average asset 
levels relative to higher average debt levels in the previous financial year.
Macroeconomic Update - Stock Broking
	y
The All Share Price Index (ASPI) of the CSE recorded a 25% gain 
in CY2023 [CY2022: 31% decline], whilst the Standard and Poor's 
Sri Lanka 20 (S&P SL20) index also noted a 16% gain in CY2023 
[CY2022: 38% decline].  
	y
The average daily turnover stood at Rs.1.70 billion in CY2023, a 
43% decline against the previous year [CY2022: Rs.2.97 billion].
	y
The settlement cycle for equity transactions will be shortened 
from the current T+3 to T+2, effective May 2024. 
Stock Broking 
JKSB, the stock broking arm of the Group, experienced a challenging year 
of operations on account of the lacklustre performance of the Colombo 
Stock Exchange (CSE) during the year. Market performance, especially 
foreign participation, was adversely affected by macroeconomic 
uncertainty and limited participation by foreign institutional investors. 
During the year, the business continued to focus on updating its 
processes and systems to improve alignment with client requirements. 
Several initiatives were introduced in this regard to enhance efficiency 
and cost management across both front and back-office operations. 
In order to enhance client engagements, the business continued to 
conduct various investor fora via online platforms, relaunched its social 
media platforms on Facebook and LinkedIn, and introduced a JKSB 
WhatsApp channel to disseminate information to clients.
Financial Performance Review
As the key businesses within the industry group comprise of the Banking 
and Insurance sectors, the ensuing discussion will predominantly focus 
on PBT and PAT, in order to capture the net earnings of the businesses as 
reflected in the financial statements of the Group.
Rs.million
2023/24
2022/23
%
PBT*
Insurance   
5,276
4,020
31
Banking
         4,056 
         2,710 
50
Stock Broking
(40)
21
(290)
Total
9,293
6,751
38
PAT*
Insurance
3,767
2,948
28
Banking
4,056
       2,710 
50
Stock Broking
(29)
15
(293)
Total
7,794
5,673
37
* Share of results of equity accounted investees are shown net of all related taxes.
Insurance 
	y
The business witnessed a strong performance in its gross written 
premium (GWP), recording a growth of 16% during the year under 
review [2022/23: 6%]. The growth in GWP was primarily driven by a 
12% increase in renewal premiums, a 23% increase in new business 
premiums and 50% growth in group life and surgical premiums.
	y
Claims and benefits increased by 11% to Rs.6.71 billion [2022/23: Rs.6.04 
billion] on account of expansion of the insurance policy portfolio, 
increase in surrender payouts due to macroeconomic challenges and 
maturity payouts in accordance with the contractual obligations.

194 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
Outlook and Risks
The Group remains positive of the overall prospects for the Financial 
Services industry group, given the strong market fundamentals of the 
industries in which the businesses operate. The encouraging recovery of 
the macroeconomy, as witnessed in the last three quarters of 2023/24, 
is envisaged to continue to the ensuing year aiding growth in the 
industry group. The abate of credit risk in tandem with the growth of the 
economy and the low interest rate regime will have positive impacts on 
businesses within the industry group. Although there are downside risks, 
stemming from the global and domestic operating environment in the 
short-term, as outlined under the Group Outlook and Risks section of this 
Report, the Group is confident of the ability of the businesses' strength 
and agility to meet any headwinds and evolving dynamics. 
The low insurance penetration in Sri Lanka, coupled with favourable 
demographic trends and the process of digitalisation, present a 
considerable opportunity for the life insurance industry, and UA, in 
particular. NTB is also uniquely positioned to capitalise on the country's 
growth trajectory, given its targeted and responsible lending strategy. 
Increasing traction towards equity instruments with an expected low 
interest regime and increased foreign interest in the market alongside 
the revival of the economy will benefit the Stockbroking business. 
Key risks, trends and opportunities relevant to the industry group:
FINANCIAL SERVICES
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
Immediate to Short-Term
Insurance
Significantly low insurance penetration in the country, in comparison 
to regional markets, coupled with favourable demographic trends and 
rapid digitisation provide the life insurance industry ample scope for 
growth. To capitalise on this opportunity, the business will continue 
its strategy of transforming the organisation from a volume-centric to 
a value-centric organisation, in furtherance of its ambition of being 
a fully-fledged digital and customer-centric insurer for the new age. 
Accordingly, key strategies in the short-term will revolve around: 
	y
Expanding the agency channel to broaden market reach, fostering 
deeper connections with customers.
	y
Capitalising on alternate channels to diversify distribution avenues, 
ensuring accessibility to a wider customer base.
	y
Optimising costs across operations to enhance efficiency and 
maintain competitive pricing.
	y
Ensuring a customer-centric, profitable, and balanced product 
portfolio by continuously evaluating and refining offerings to meet 
evolving needs and preferences.
	y
Strengthening partnerships with leading banks with the aim 
of consolidating its status as one of the leading bancassurance 
providers in the country, while ensuring that the concerns of its 
stakeholders, including the agency force, are given due attention.
Potential headwinds stem from a deterioration or a lackluster growth 
in purchasing power which may exert pressure on new business and 
collections in the short-term and also impact consumer sentiment and 
income. Increases in medical costs also will have a significant impact on 
the health insurance industry, particularly in managing health insurance 
claims. 
Emphasis will be placed on navigating these challenges adeptly by 
leveraging technology, data analytics, establishing partnerships, and 
implementing strategic risk management approaches to ensure the 
efficient and sustainable management of any potential risks, especially 
stemming from the business' health insurance portfolio. Digital and 
other capabilities built in the past will also aid the business in minimising 
the overall impact on operations, ensuring the persistency of existing 
policies while maintaining the trend of new business. 
The Insurance business will also continue to focus on ensuring strategic, 
tactical, and operational readiness for the implementation of SLFRS-17, 
which will now be effective from 1 January 2026. In CY2024, the business 
will concentrate on system installation, configuration and integration, a 
process that has already commenced. Plans are also underway to begin 
the generation of opening balances and disclosures in CY2024, followed 
by testing and parallel runs in CY2025.
“The Group remains positive of the overall 
prospects for the Financial Services industry 
group, given the strong market fundamentals of 
the industries in which the businesses operate. The 
encouraging recovery of the macroeconomy, as 
witnessed in the last three quarters of 2023/24, is 
envisaged to continue to the ensuing year aiding 
growth in the industry group.”
	y
A significant protection gap due to low insurance penetration 
compared to regional peers
	y
Shifting demographics creating demand for health, retirement 
and financial protection insurance solutions
	y
Increasing demand for digital infrastructure
	y
Shift towards cashless payments
	y
Integration of Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Robotic Process 
Automation (RPA) in operational, customer servicing and 
administrative tasks in the long-term
	y
Macroeconomic and political environment*
•	 Decrease in disposable income of customers
•	 Changes in regulatory environment*
•	 Credit risk
•	 Increasing medical costs resulting in higher claims 
	y
Supply chain disruptions*
	y
Financial exposure*, in particular exchange and interest rate 
volatility
	y
Global competitiveness*
	y
Human resources and talent management*
	y
Environment and health & safety* in particular climate risks
	y
Information technology*
	y
Reputation and brand image*
Trends and Opportunities
Risks
*Identified as a risk across the Group through the Group's Enterprise Risk Management 
framework. Refer Key Risks section under Outlook and Risks for a detailed discussion.

195
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Banking
NTB will continue to proactively manage its operations to capture 
market opportunities as demand for credit rises, while effectively 
managing risks. The Bank will focus its efforts on building resilience and 
sustainability by prioritising credit quality, margin management, return 
focused lending and financial stability, whilst also continuing with the 
stringent cost management culture in place, in particular:
	y
Seizing market opportunities through careful lending practices while 
upholding a robust liquidity position.
	y
Prioritising profitability by effectively managing funding costs and 
upholding superior asset quality.
	y
Delivering customer-centric financial solutions through a holistic 
approach throughout the customer lifecycle, tailored to meet specific 
customer needs.
	y
Utilising technology to spearhead innovations, enhance customer 
value offerings, and streamline operational processes.
	y
Fostering an agile, dedicated, and forward-looking workforce.
	y
Integrating environmental and social factors through the 
implementation of a well-structured environmental, social and 
governance (ESG) strategy.
Potential headwinds stem from the overall economy, particularly given 
that the banking industry is closely intertwined with the state of the 
economy. To this end, the Bank will closely monitor developments on 
the economic and political front, especially the progress with the foreign 
currency denominated debt restructure due in the ensuing year and the 
elections due to be held.
The Bank has conducted various stress-tested scenarios on its capital 
and liquidity position and remains confident in its ability to navigate 
potential challenges stemming from the operating environment.
The Group currently holds 29.48% of voting shares in NTB. As discussed 
under the Operational Review, JKH has requested for an extension on 
the mandatory reduction of its shareholding in the Bank and is awaiting 
a formal response from the Central Bank of Sri Lanka. 
Sri Lanka has a relatively low level of insurance penetration in 
comparison to regional markets.
Integration of Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Robotic Process Automation 
(RPA) in operational, customer servicing and administrative tasks is 
expected to potentially revolutionise the insurance landscape.
The business will continue to:
	y
Focus on diversifying its channels through an omni-channel 
distribution model and optimising bancassurance partnerships. 
	y
While the agency channel is envisaged to be the key driver of 
revenue growth, also focus on expanding the bancassurance 
and alternate channels, particularly through the development of 
innovative insurance products that meet the evolving needs of 
customers.
	y
Place emphasis on modular products designed to meet the specific 
requirements and new needs of the customers marketed through 
efficient and modern distribution channels.
	y
Make ongoing innovative investments while having a clear digital 
roadmap that focuses on enhancing customer convenience, 
achieving operational excellence and improving distribution 
capabilities.
	y
Capitalise on the vast data reserve, placing emphasis on data 
analytics for better insight on evaluating the market, developing 
innovative products and devising growth strategies to fundamentally 
enhance decision-making capability.
Medium to Long-Term
Insurance
Domestic conditions are envisaged to remain resilient and continue its 
growth trajectory in the medium-term in tandem with the continued 
revival of the economy. The significantly lower level of insurance 
penetration in comparison to regional peers, an ageing population and 
the increasing prevalence of non-communicable diseases are expected 
to aid growth in the life insurance industry in Sri Lanka. The immense 
growth potential for the industry will hinge on strategic factors such 
as raising awareness, developing a well-suited range of products and 
solutions, and establishing a robust service proposition which Union 
Assurance is ideally placed to capitalise on, given its strong brand equity, 
diversified portfolio of products and digital expertise.
Nations Trust Bank and American Express 20-year partnership celebration.
(%)
(%)
Life Insurance Penetration in Regional Markets
Thailand
Malaysia
India
Vietnam
Indonesia
Sri Lanka Bangladesh
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0
CY21
CY22
Stockbroking
Positive developments on the macroeconomic front, along with 
increased optimism regarding the country's growth potential, are 
projected to yield positive effects on the performance of the stock 
market and investor sentiment. The marked reduction in interest rates 
has also resulted in a shift of funds from fixed income to alternative 
investments such as real estate and equity. The Stockbroking business is 
well positioned to leverage on this opportunity.
Source : Swiss Re Institute, Sigma No 3/2023 report, Sigma No 4/2022 report and 
IRCSL Statistical Review 2022.

196 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
	y
To further its ambition to be a fully-fledged digital and customer-
centric insurer for the new age, taking steps to attract a new 
generation of customers and augment its market presence. 
	y
Focus on improving the employee value proposition and execute 
various strategies aimed at the continuous improvement of the 
agency force through skill development and the retention of the 
trained talent pool.
Banking
The prospects for the Banking business continue to be promising 
with NTB uniquely positioned to capitalise on this opportunity. Recent 
investments and focus towards strengthening its digital infrastructure, 
strong customer relationships and flexible solutions have NTB well-
placed to capture the opportunities presented by the industry's ongoing 
digital transformation and strengthen its market positioning.
The business will prioritise:
	y
Further augmenting its digital infrastructure and processes to ensure 
better customer service, innovative solutions and efficiency in 
operations. 
	y
Continued expansion and positioning of 'FriMi' as a lifestyle 
application and digital bank through the integration of various 
lifestyle solutions, new features and enhanced user interface, will 
remain an area of focus for the Bank in its digitisation drive.
	y
Investment in upskilling the human capital of the business to 
thrive in an increasingly digitised industry, driving cost and process 
efficiencies by leveraging on past investments in automation, lean 
process re-engineering and activity-based costing measurement 
frameworks remain a priority in the medium-term
	y
Increasing the depth and breadth of its analytics, leveraging data to 
drive strategic decision-making.
Stockbroking
The Group expects a revival in foreign investor participation in tandem 
with the improvement of the macroeconomy, which will contribute 
to improved activity in the CSE. JKSB will continue to cultivate foreign 
tie-ups in order to strengthen its presence amongst foreign institutional 
investors. The business will simultaneously work towards expanding its 
local client base aimed at local corporates, fund managers and high  
net-worth individuals.
FINANCIAL SERVICES
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW

INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
Information Technology 
IT Services
	y
John Keells IT (JKIT) - a boutique Information 
Technology (IT) consultancy and professional service 
provider with a vision to simplify and digitally 
transform businesses to be relevant in the data-
driven experience economy.
	y
Key value stacks:
•	 JKIT Strategy – experiencing a data-driven 
economy through design thinking.
•	 JKIT Core – orchestrating enterprise application 
portfolios.
•	 JKIT Cloud – architecting cloud transformation.
•	 JKIT Platform – enabling a 'Smart' future.
•	 JKIT Ecosystem – driving the application 
programming interface (API) economy.
IT-Enabled Services
	y
Infomate - a business process management (BPM) 
service provider with the mandate of driving greater 
efficiencies for their clientele.
	y
Key focus areas:
•	 Finance and accounting.
•	 Payroll management.
•	 Data digitisation.
Plantation Services 
	y
John Keells PLC (JK PLC) – a leading tea and rubber 
broker.
	y
Tea Smallholder Factories PLC (TSF):
•	 Operates five of the seven factories owned.  
Two factory are leased externally.
•	 Leading manufacturer of low grown orthodox and 
'crush, tear, curl' (CTC) teas in the country.
	y
John Keells Warehousing (JKW) – operates a state-of-
the-art warehouse for pre-auction produce.
Other 
	y
JKH (Holding Company) and other businesses 
(Centre functions/divisions).
OTHER, INCLUDING INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND 
PLANTATION SERVICES
Contribution to the John Keells Group
2%
14%
14%
2%
Revenue
EBIT
Capital Employed
Carbon Footprint
197
197
2023/24
2022/23
2021/22
Financial and Manufactured Capital
Revenue 1
Rs.million
 6,057 
 6,874 
 4,041 
EBITDA
Rs.million
 5,036 
 6,652 
 5,489 
PBT
Rs.million
 (7,349)
 7,111 
 21,090 
PAT
Rs.million
 (9,513)
 3,876 
 16,625 
Total assets
Rs.million
 98,252 
 95,472 
 134,622 
Total equity
Rs.million
 (5,788)
 (2,988)
 54,578 
Total debt 2
Rs.million
 95,434 
 90,352 
 72,510 
Capital employed 3
Rs.million
 89,839 
 87,364 
 127,088 
Natural Capital
Energy consumption 
kWh
 6,881,514  7,343,934  8,372,817 
Energy consumption per operational 
intensity factor
kWh per 
Rs.million
722.92
696.97
1,241.52
Carbon footprint
MT
 2,047.96 
 1,989.82 
 2,202.32 
Carbon footprint per operational 
intensity factor
MT per 
Rs.million
0.22
0.19
0.33
Water withdrawal 
m3
 23,379.24  19,576.00  18,010.00 
Water withdrawal per operational 
intensity factor
m3 per 
Rs.million
2.46
1.86
2.67
Volume of hazardous waste generated kg
0
0
0
Volume of non hazardous waste 
generated
kg
 122,814 
 138,640 
 148,225 
Waste generated per operational 
intensity factor
kg per 
Rs.million
12.90
13.16
21.98
Human Capital
Total Workforce (employees and 
contractors' staff)
No.
1,341
1,350
1,274
EBIT per employee 
Rs.million
4
5
4
Average training per employee
hours
11.3
8.04
12.4
Total Attrition
%
37.1
37.4
41.9
Females employee
%
77.7
70.76
69.1
Total injuries
No.
4
4
5
Social and Relationship Capital
Community Services and Infrastructure 
Projects4
Rs.'000
 65,893
133,627
34,298
1.	 Revenue is inclusive of the Group's share of equity accounted investees.
2.	 Excludes lease liabilities.
3.	 For equity accounted investees, capital employed is representative of the Group's equity investment in 
these companies. This is inclusive of lease liabilities.
4.	 Only the contribution to John Keells Foundation.
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information

198 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
198 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2022/23
External Environment and Operational Review
Information Technology
Plantation Services
Macroeconomic Update
	y
Businesses continued to seek credible, long-term partners with 
a proven track record and stability to drive digital transformation 
agenda across their value chains/ecosystems with end-to-end 
portfolio capability and solution stacks.
	y
The key growth areas continued to be centred around core 
transformation, cloud enablement, and platform extensions 
for industry solution stacks, advanced analytics, intelligent 
automation, application modernisation ring-fenced with zero-
trust architecture-based identity, mobility and access. This is 
increasingly becoming a key differentiator and critical success 
factor for most organisations to stay resilient amidst increasing 
cyber threats.
	y
The global business process management (BPM) industry 
market size was valued at USD 14.46 billion in CY2022 while the 
global spend on IT services is expected to reach USD 1.36 trillion 
by CY2025.
	y
IT/BPM industry in Sri Lanka has a target of achieving USD 3 
billion export revenue by CY2024 and USD 5 billion export 
revenue by CY2030. 
	y
With the increase in global demand for IT/BPM services,  
Sri Lanka continued to strengthen its position as an information 
and communication technology (ICT) destination of choice. ICT 
services generated the third highest export revenues for the 
country as at end-2023/24.
Key Policy and Regulatory Highlights
	y
Companies providing information technology services were 
previously exempt from income tax. Effective 1 April 2023, 
IT companies were liable to pay income tax at the standard 
corporate tax rate of 30%.
Macroeconomic Update
	y
Global tea production increased by 1.9% in CY2023 in 
comparison to the 1% contraction recorded in CY2022. The 
growth in production was mainly driven by higher outputs 
recorded by China, India, Kenya, Turkey and Sri Lanka. 
	y
Sri Lanka recorded a 1.8% growth in tea production to 256 
million kg during CY2023 [CY2022: 252 million kg]. Production 
across all elevations increased in comparison to CY2022. 
	y
Sri Lanka tea exports for CY2023 stood at 241,913 MT in 
comparison to 250,191 MT recorded in CY2022. This decline mainly 
stemmed from Iran, a major importer, who faced challenges 
fulfilling payment terms and navigating stricter sanctions imposed 
by the United States and Europe, hindering deliveries. Additionally, 
demand from other key markets such as Russia, United Arab 
Emirates (UAE), Azerbaijan, Iraq, and Japan also weakened.
	y
Despite the volume decline, total export earnings in CY2023 
grew by 4% amounting to Rs.428.29 billion (USD 1,304 million), 
compared to Rs.411.09 billion (USD 1,268 million) recorded in 
previous year. 
	y
Average tea prices at the Colombo Auction decreased by 18% 
during CY2023 to Rs.1,171.29 in comparison to Rs.1234.24 
recorded in CY 2022. In USD terms, the average tea price 
declined by 6% from USD 3.81 per kg in CY2022 to USD 3.57 per 
kg in CY2023.
Key Policy and Regulatory Highlights
	y
Value added tax (VAT) of 18% was imposed on tea and rubber 
(excluding field latex and raw scrap) industries, effective  
1 January 2024. The industries were previously exempt from VAT.
During the year under review, John Keells IT (JKIT) continued to 
consolidate and accelerate its expansions in regional markets by 
strengthening and leveraging on its global partnerships with Microsoft 
and SAP and expanding its strategic alliances partnering with Sales 
force and Siemens Digital. JKIT further consolidated its position as the 
market leader in Sri Lanka and United Arab Emirates through aggressive 
growth strategies and were successful in acquiring marquee clients. The 
business also pursued expansion in Saudi Arabia, India as well as South 
East Asia through identified strategic alliances.
The business's new operating structure focused on the Asia Pacific 
(APAC) and Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA) regions. JKIT's 
portfolio strategy which aligns solutions under a broader umbrella 
continued to be well received, with the solutions value stacks, 'JKIT-
Strategy', 'JKIT-Core', 'JKIT-Cloud', 'JKIT-Platform', and 'JKIT-Ecosystems' 
yielding positive results throughout the financial year. 
JKIT continued to focus on delivering innovative solutions for clients 
by providing holistic and transformative solutions and services across 
the aforementioned five value stacks and packaging the same to 
create 'Smart Industry Solutions'. Making the services available on both 
Microsoft and SAP marketplaces have augured well, giving the business 
added recognition in its key industries.
The Group's BPM operations in Sri Lanka, Infomate, recorded an 
encouraging performance during the year and maintained its position 
within the top six business process outsourcing (BPO) companies in 
Sri Lanka. The business continued to expand its portfolio of clients, 
especially across Australia, the Nordic region and the Middle East. The 
business also expanded its portfolio of services to include human 
resource outsourcing, lead generation and documentation services 
during the year under review.
	y
John Keells IT
•	 'Partner of the Year' – Sri Lanka 2023 from SAP 
•	 'Principal Recognition Partner – Sri Lanka' from UiPath
AWARDS
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
OTHER, INCLUDING INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND PLANTATION SERVICES

199
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
During the year under review, the Sri Lankan tea industry encountered 
a series of formidable obstacles, characterised by escalating production 
costs and dwindling auction values, compounded by geopolitical tensions 
such as the Russian-Ukrainian conflict and unrest in the Middle East.
Additionally, the Red Sea crisis induced uncertainty among tea 
exporters/buyers, leading to substantial escalations in freight and 
insurance expenses. Moreover, the appreciation of the Sri Lankan Rupee 
against the US dollar exerted further pressure on tea prices during the 
fourth quarter of 2023/24.
Adverse weather conditions, notably record rainfall and increased wet 
days impacted production, particularly in the low grown region. The 
decline in the low grown region was also influenced by decreased 
fertiliser application by smallholders. Despite these challenges, TSF 
managed to sustain production volumes at levels similar to the 
preceding year, excluding the New Panawenna factory, which was leased 
out in the fourth quarter of 2023/24. Inclusive of the New Panawenna 
factory, production volumes surpassed the previous year's figures by 1% 
by the end of the third quarter.
Throughout the year, TSF prioritised its digital branding initiatives, 
including the development of its website and engagement on social 
media platforms, aimed at fostering connections with buyers and the 
smallholder community, while also raising awareness of its corporate 
social responsibility endeavours.
Additionally, the business invested in the creation of a management 
dashboard to monitor key performance indicators, facilitating  
data-driven decision-making processes. Efforts to enhance operational 
efficiency were pursued through the automation of internal processes 
and the upgrade of machinery, resulting in improved productivity and 
product quality.
JK PLC increased its market share to 13.49% in 2023/24 from 13.30% 
recorded in the previous year. A notable increase in volumes of the high 
grown and medium grown elevations contributed to this improvement. 
JK PLC recorded a 6% increase in volumes. Additionally, the business 
initiated the development of its website and a mobile application 
which would enable the clients to digitally access catalogues, prices, 
valuations, and other information regarding tea sold which would 
enable better transparency and smooth information flow. JK Warehouse 
utilisation increased to 88% during the year compared to 71% achieved 
in the previous year. The business invested Rs.123 million on revamping 
the existing racking systems during the year and is in the process of 
implementing an automated goods received note (GRN) process which 
would digitise recording of goods received directly onto an application, 
thereby streamlining operations, saving time in terms of labour, reducing 
cost of paper and minimising short weight claims. Additionally, the 
business signed up with a solar developer to install a 2 MW solar 
installation at the warehouse on a revenue sharing basis for 20 years.
Other
In addition to the Information Technology and Plantation Services 
sectors, the industry group also entails the Holding Company and its 
various divisions. 
Holding Company 
The Holding Company operates in a manner where each industry group 
operates with relative autonomy, whilst linked together for strategic 
direction through the Board and the Group Executive Committee. 
The Centre Functions of the Holding Company ensure excellence and 
consistency in support services across the Group, aiding industry groups 
in managing crucial aspects effectively and receiving support in niche 
operational decision-making. 
The Centre Functions of the Group entail:
Centre Function/
Division
Activities
Corporate 
Communications
	y Manages the Group's internal 
communications and Group-level 
communication with media personnel.
Corporate Finance 
and Strategy
	y Evaluates mergers and acquisitions, effects 
financial evaluation, capital planning and 
monitoring.  
	y Reviews the Group Portfolio, facilitates 
planning, strategy formulation and manages 
business specific strategic projects/studies.
Data and Advanced 
Analytics – Octave*
	y Business transformation through the 
development of advanced data analytics use 
cases.
Group Business 
Process Review
	y Oversees the integrity of the financial 
statements and internal control.
Group Finance and 
Insurance
	y Consolidates Group accounts and 
provides guidance on interpretation and 
implementation of accounting standards for 
the Group.
Group Human 
Resources (HR)
	y Sets HR policy and coordinates /monitors 
Group HR processes.
Group IT
	y Supports the Group's IT requirements.
Group Tax
	y Development of Group tax strategy and 
planning.
Group Treasury
	y Manages interest rate negotiations and 
foreign exchange, evaluates and souring of 
finance and manages the Group pension fund. 
	y Provides treasury advice and ensures the 
facilities obtained are in line with Group 
norms.  
John Keells 
Foundation
	y A subset of sustainability which manages 
strategic CSR initiatives in line with the 
Sustainability Development Goals.

200 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
OTHER, INCLUDING INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND PLANTATION SERVICES
Centre Function/
Division
Activities
John Keells 
Research*
	y Generates scientific research ideas and 
develop such ideas into Intellectual Property 
(IP) either to commence commercial 
production or monetise the IPs itself to 
generate revenue.
John Keells X*
	y Group's corporate start-up accelerator
Legal and Secretarial
	y Provides legal and secretarial support to all 
Group companies.
New Business 
Development
	y Development of new business opportunities 
for the Group.
Sustainability, 
Enterprise Risk 
Management and 
Group Initiatives
	y Operationalisation of Group Sustainability 
Management Framework under which 
Group Companies carry out their specific 
sustainability strategies and initiatives.
	y Manages the Enterprise Risk Management 
system for the value creation process.
	y Manages Group-wide synergetic initiatives.
Social 
Entrepreneurship**
	y Spearheads 'Plasticcycle', Group's social 
entrepreneurship initiative.
*Detailed discussion found in the Intellectual Capital Review 
**Detailed discussion found in the Natural Capital Review sections. 
In February 2024, HWIC exercised its option to convert 110,000,000 
Debentures, with a face value of Rs.14.30 billion. Accordingly, JKH 
issued and listed 110,000,000 new ordinary shares of the Company. 
The remaining outstanding Debentures post this conversion amount 
to 98,125,000 Debentures with a face value of Rs.12.76 billion. The 
remaining Debentures are eligible for conversion till 12 August 2025. 
Refer Share Information section for a discussion on the key portfolio actions 
during the year - page 124
Financial Performance Review
Information Technology 
Rs.million
2023/24
2022/23
%
Income Statement Indicators
Revenue 
            2,243 
            2,273 
(1)
EBITDA*
           415 
           769 
(46)
PBT
            244 
            731 
(67)
Balance Sheet Indicators
Debt**
                  78                   158
(51)
*EBITDA includes interest income but excludes all impacts from foreign currency 
exchange gains and losses, to demonstrate the underlying cash operational 
performance of businesses.
**Excludes lease liabilities.
	y
The marginal decline in revenue is on account of JKIT, due to lower 
revenue from clients. 
	y
Infomate recorded a growth in revenue during the year driven by 
onboarding of new clients. 
	y
EBITDA of the sector was impacted by an increase in staff costs 
during the year.  
	y
On a recurring basis, the PBT of the Information Technology sector 
stood at Rs.244 million during the year in comparison to Rs.721 
million in 2022/23.
	y
Debt excluding lease liabilities recorded a decline due to normalised 
working capital requirements. It should be noted, Infomate incurred 
lease liabilities amounting to Rs.77 million in 2023/24 due to leasing 
of an office premise. 
Plantation Services
Rs.million
2023/24
2022/23
%
Income Statement Indicators
Revenue 
            3,757 
            4,509 
(17)
EBITDA*
       422 
       1,036 
(59)
PBT
270
            914 
(70)
Balance Sheet Indicators
Debt**
                    222                      85
161
*EBITDA includes interest income but excludes all impacts from foreign currency 
exchange gains and losses, to demonstrate the underlying cash operational 
performance of businesses.
**Excludes lease liabilities.
The year under review witnessed a return to normal day-to-day 
activities post the economic crisis where the country saw sustained 
improvements across key macroeconomic indicators. Notably, the 
decline of inflation and interest rates, the stabilisation of the Rupee 
supported by improved foreign exchange inflows and the ease of import 
restrictions and the gradual pick up in the economic growth. Amidst 
these circumstances, the Holding Company continued to focus on 
various measures to ensure an agile operating model, with emphasis on 
liquidity and cash management. The financial strength of the Holding 
Company, together with agility in planning ahead aided the Company 
in navigating the portfolio of businesses and supporting the investment 
pipeline of the Group. 
Detailed discussion found in the Financial and Manufactured Capital  
Review - page 51
 
As detailed in the JKH Annual Report 2022/23, JKH issued 208,125,000 
LKR denominated debentures ('Debentures'), with a face value of 
Rs.27.06 billion, to HWIC Asia Fund ('HWIC'), a subsidiary of Fairfax 
Financial Holdings Limited, in August 2022. The debentures were issued 
at Rs.130 per Debenture and with the option for conversion to shares at 
a ratio of 1:1, based on the approval granted by the shareholders at  
the time. 

201
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
	y
The Plantation Services sector recorded a decline in revenue due 
to a decline in tea prices, which mainly impacted TSF. Additionally, 
the appreciation of the Rupee further contributed to the decline in 
revenue. 
	y
The decline in EBITDA is mainly as a result of a contraction in margins 
due to a decline in tea prices along with increases in staff costs, 
electricity and maintenance costs. 
	y
On a recurring basis, the PBT of the Plantation Services sector stood 
at Rs.198 million in comparison to Rs.822 million in 2022/23. The PBT 
was impacted by reduced margins along with higher depreciation 
charges due to an increase in assets on account of refurbishments 
undertaken last year. 
	y
The increase in debt of the Plantation Services sector is attributable 
to an increase in bank overdrafts to manage working capital 
requirements.
Other 
Rs.million
2023/24
2022/23
%
Income Statement Indicators
Revenue 
                 57 
                93 
(39)
EBITDA*
   (4,198) 
       4,847 
(130)
PBT
         (7,862) 
         5,465 
(244)
Balance Sheet Indicators
Debt**
           95,134            90,109 
6
Net Debt***
36,572 
23,295 
57
*EBITDA includes interest income but excludes all impacts from foreign currency 
exchange gains and losses, to demonstrate the underlying cash operational 
performance of businesses.
**Excludes lease liabilities.
***Net debt is arrived by subtracting the Holding Company's total cash and cash 
equivalents, including its short-term investments from its total debt.
	y
The decrease in revenue of the Holding Company during the year 
was mainly on reclassification of external revenue for the current year.
	y
The EBITDA of the Holding Company decreased during the year due 
to a decline in interest income. Interest income recorded a decrease 
due to a decline in domestic interest rates, the translation impact 
stemming from foreign currency denominated interest income and 
a decrease in cash and cash equivalents at the Holding Company on 
account of planned utilisation for equity infusions in investments.
	y
The PBT of the Holding Company was impacted by an increase in 
finance expenses driven by: 
•	 The notional non-cash interest of Rs.3.02 billion charged in line 
with market rates on the convertible debentures [2022/23: 
Rs.1.83 billion], in line with the accounting treatment, despite the 
significant difference between the market rate and the 3%  
coupon rate.
•	 An increase in Rupee borrowing costs due to an increase in Rupee 
debt in line with the planned funding strategy of the Group at 
this juncture, to this end, total debt (including lease liabilities) 
decreased by Rs.5.14 billion to Rs.95.25 billion. 
	y
Further, the Holding Company PBT in 2022/23 includes an exchange 
gain of Rs.9.46 billion on account of the steep depreciation of the 
Rupee whilst the year under review comparatively includes an 
exchange loss of Rs.369 million due to the appreciation of the Rupee. 
	y
Debt levels at the Holding Company increased in comparison to the 
previous year due to an increase in Rupee borrowings, in the line 
with the planned funding strategy of the Group. 
	y
The Holding Company recorded a decline in its net debt position due 
to the reduction in its cash balance in line with the planned equity 
infusions for the Group's investment pipeline, particularly for the 
equity infusions to the 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka' integrated resort 
and WCT-1.
	y
Lease liabilities for the year stood at Rs.116 million, while total debt 
including lease liabilities amounted to Rs.95.25 billion during the year 
in comparison to Rs.90.11 billion in 2022/23. 
The industry group recorded fair value gains on investment property (IP) 
of Rs.72 million which stemmed from the Plantation Services sector and 
the investments at the Holding Company [2022/23: Rs.81 million].
The recurring adjustments for 2023/24 entailed one-off impacts as 
articulated in detail in the Financial Performance section of this Review. 
Similarly, the comparative year also entailed various one-off impacts, 
which have been adjusted in order to ensure a like-with-like comparison.
The recurring PBT of the industry group stood at a loss of Rs.7.45 billion, 
a decrease against the previous year [2022/23: Rs.7.48 billion].  
Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) Analysis
ROCE
(%)
=
EBIT 
margin 
(%)
x
Asset 
turnover
x
Capital 
structure 
leverage
2023/24
5.3
78.1
0.06
1.09
2022/23 
6.0 
93.6
0.06 
1.07
The ROCE of the Information Technology sector declined to 8.9% 
[2022/23: 23.5%]. 
The ROCE of the Plantation services sector declined to 9.9%  
[2022/23: 32.1%]. 
Halwitigala Tea Factory.

202 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
Outlook and Risks
Information Technology
The Information Technology industry has witnessed encouraging growth 
in recent years, with a significant increase in demand for technology 
services worldwide. The Group remains confident of the prospects of 
this industry, given growing traction for technology solutions that aid 
businesses to improve operations, increase efficiency and mitigate risks 
in general. The agile and rapidly evolving nature of the business is also 
expected to aid growth, given the industry's ability to move in tandem 
with customer preferences.  
Key risks, trends and opportunities relevant to the industry group:
Statista estimates the IT services market globally to reach USD 1.42 
trillion in CY2024, with IT outsourcing dominating the market with an 
estimated market volume of USD 541.10 billion. The market is estimated 
to grow at a compounded annual growth rate of ~6%, resulting in a USD 
1.88 trillion market by CY2029. 
Immediate to Short-Term
	y
The information technology and communication industry in  
Sri Lanka is recognised as a thrust sector in the country's national 
export strategy. The industry has a target of contributing USD 15 
billion to the digital economy and achieving USD 5 billion in export 
revenue by CY2030. 
	y
In CY2023, ICT/BPM exports increased by 13.2% to USD 1,260 million, 
reflecting the significant growth potential of this industry. This 
growth momentum is envisaged to continue going forward. 
	y
Digital literacy among the populace is ever-growing, along with 
increased digital adoption, creating ample opportunity for the 
industry to leverage on.
	y
The Group's IT businesses are well positioned to leverage on its 
strategic partnerships and capabilities to offer smart software 
solutions, especially in the areas of cloud computing, software as 
a service (SaaS) and automation, whilst concurrently exploiting 
potential opportunities for managed services, outsourcing and 
offshoring. 
	y
The businesses will look to consolidate its position in the current 
markets and also strengthen its partnerships with key partners.
	y
Improving the contract management and operations, especially 
in overseas markets with the right onsite/offsite blend, as well as a 
disciplined change management process will be a key priority for 
John Keells IT (JKIT) in the short-term. 
	y
Attrition and sourcing talent remain a critical challenge for the 
Group's IT businesses, with the issue of human capital flight and 
'brain drain'. Every effort will be made to attract and retain talent by 
offering opportunities for career development and enhanced scope 
of roles offering diverse learning and exposure.
“The Information Technology industry has 
witnessed encouraging growth in recent 
years, with a significant increase in demand 
for technology services worldwide. The Group 
remains confident of the prospects of this industry, 
given growing traction for technology solutions 
that aid businesses to improve operations, 
increase efficiency and mitigate risks in general.”
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
OTHER, INCLUDING INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND PLANTATION SERVICES
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
0
2016
2018
2020
2022
2024
2026
2028
Business Process 
Outsourcing
IT Consulting and 
Implementation
IT Outsourcing
Other IT 
Services
Global IT Services Market
(USD billon)
Notes: Data shown is using current exchange rates and reflects market impacts of the 
Russia-Ukraine war.
Most recent update: April 2024
Source: Statista Market Insights
	y
Traction for cloud computing
	y
Increased demand for emerging technologies such as artificial 
intelligence (AI), blockchain, and the Internet of Things (IoT) 
	y
Data analytics
	y
Growing digital literacy in the country
	y
High literacy rates in the country 
	y
Increased adoption of digital solutions and transformations by 
businesses
	y
Opportunities for managed services, outsourcing and 
offshoring
	y
Envisaged growth in the business process management (BPM) 
industry
	y
Increased investment in technology infrastructure
	y
Macroeconomic and political environment*
•	 Changes in regulatory environment*
	y
Supply chain disruptions*
	y
Financial exposure*, in particular exchange rate volatility
	y
Global competitiveness* 
	y
Human resources and talent management*
	y
Environment and health & safety*
	y
Information technology*
•	 Cybersecurity threats
•	 Commoditisation of services
•	 Disruptive innovation
	y
Reputation and brand image*
Trends and Opportunities
Risks
*Identified as a risk across the Group through the Group's Enterprise Risk Management 
framework. Refer Key Risks section under Outlook and Risks for a detailed discussion.

203
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Medium to Long-Term
The Group's IT businesses expect continued adoption of information 
technology solutions on the back of increased adoption of digital solutions. 
To this end, the Group expects to see greater traction in the deployment 
of cloud-based solutions and services across industries, with emphasis on 
cloud, SaaS, automation, advanced analytics, application modernisation, 
cyber resilience and platform/ecosystem thinking, among others.
JKIT will leverage on its strategic partnerships with SAP, Microsoft and 
UiPath, to expand regionally and globally to capture high-end accounts 
and increase business reach in Sri Lanka, Europe, the Middle-East, and 
Africa (EMEA), and the Asia Pacific (APAC) regions. The business will 
also focus on delivering innovative consultative solutions and services 
across the five value stacks of 'Strategy', 'Core', 'Cloud', 'Platforms' and 
'Ecosystems', across multiple industries. JKIT will also place emphasis on 
building and expanding its capabilities and look to expand its portfolio 
of offerings beyond core enterprise resource planning (ERP), enterprise 
applications, and managed development centres, thereby expanding its 
value proposition and competitive advantage.
The low penetration of business process management (BPM) services in 
Sri Lanka and the increasing demand for outsourced services, particularly 
non-core functions, is expected to augur well for the BPM industry in 
Sri Lanka. While the sourcing of talent in Sri Lanka is a challenge, BPMs 
overseas, particularly in developed markets, are finding it exponentially 
harder to find the requisite talent and this is driving strong demand for 
near-shoring and off-shoring of BPM operations. Infomate is uniquely 
positioned to capitalise on this opportunity, given its strong track record 
and business capability in catering to offshore clients from varying 
geographies and industries. Against this backdrop, the business is 
envisaged to continue its growth momentum, increasing its market 
share through the acquisition of new clients, while focusing on further 
diversifying its operations and improving the efficiency of its services 
through automation and digitisation of processes.
Plantation Services
The prospects for the Plantation Services sector remain positive given 
its export-oriented nature. The sector is well positioned to capitalise on 
the recovery momentum of the overall economy, notwithstanding the 
multiple industry specific challenges faced by the sector in the recent 
past in addition to the challenging operating environment at the time.
Key risks, trends and opportunities relevant to the industry group:
Immediate to Short-Term
	y
The Sri Lanka Tea Board (SLTB) expects the overall tea production 
to reach 260 million kilograms in CY2024 [CY2023: 256 million 
kilograms], generating ~USD 1.3 billion in revenue. 
	y
Current signs indicate that the lagged effect of fertiliser shortages 
which materialised as a result of the ban imposed by the 
Government on the importation of agrochemicals in April 2021, 
has largely subsided. Hence, production levels in the country are 
expected to gradually increase to pre-2021/22 numbers in tandem 
with the improvement in fertiliser application.
Infomate is uniquely positioned to capitalise on the strong demand for near-shoring 
and off-shoring of BPM operations.
	y
Technological integration, including of AI in the grading and 
auctioning process
	y
Automation of several labour-intensive processes
	y
Emphasis on environmental sustainability, sustainable 
packaging and reforestation
	y
Expansion into new markets regionally and globally
	y
Opportunities for premiumisation
	y
Emerging demand for teas infused with functional ingredients 
	y
Cultural and experiential marketing
	y
Macroeconomic and political environment*
•	 Lacklustre growth in consumer demand
•	 Changes in regulatory environment*
	y
Supply chain disruptions*
•	 Reduced exports and potential increase in insurance and 
freight costs stemming from geopolitical tensions
	y
Increasingly unpredictable weather patterns
	y
Financial exposure*, in particular exchange rate volatility
	y
Global competitiveness*
	y
Human resources and talent management*
	y
Environment and health & safety*, including climate risks
•	 Changes in weather conditions impacting product outputs 
and quality of leaf
	y
Information technology*
	y
Reputation and brand image*
Trends and Opportunities
Risks
*Identified as a risk across the Group through the Group's Enterprise Risk Management 
framework. Refer Key Risks section under Outlook and Risks for a detailed discussion.

204 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
	y
Given the relatively stabilised macroeconomic environment, market 
prices are envisaged to remain at current levels. 
	y
Global demand for Ceylon tea will also be benefited by the continued 
expansion of the health-conscious consumer market segment. 
	y
The oil for tea barter agreement has proven to be a positive 
development for Ceylon tea with Iran increasing its volumes sourced 
from Colombo. Ceylon Tea has also regained its position to be 
amongst the top five exporters for the first quarter of CY2024.
	y
Geopolitical issues stemming from the Russia-Ukraine and the Israel-
Palestine conflicts, devaluation of the currency of key import markets 
for Ceylon Tea and volatile exchange rates are downside risks to the 
outlook. The impact may be two-fold, with impacts on demand as 
well as on the cost structure, particularly higher insurance and freight 
costs for tea exporters. Additionally, historically low prices of key 
competing markets may contribute to a shift of a segment of the 
market from Ceylon tea to other origin teas. 
	y
Other potential headwinds to the business include rise in wages, 
increase in power and energy cost, labour shortages, as well as 
increasingly unpredictable weather patterns, which is likely to impact 
cost of production and volumes.
	y
With rising costs remaining a key concern for the business, as well as 
the industry as a whole, in maintaining competitiveness, the business 
will continue its ongoing efforts to prudently manage its working 
capital requirements and practice responsible cost management 
and productivity enhancing measures including the automation of 
labour-intensive processes.
	y
Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) factors like reforestation 
and environmental sustainability will be a key focal point of the sector.
Medium to Long-Term
Global markets for tea are projected to keep expanding, driven by rising 
worldwide tea consumption. Growing demand for low grown tea from 
traditional markets in the Middle East and Russia, though demand from 
the latter is impacted by the present crisis, along with new demand 
from emerging tea-drinking countries such as Germany and the United 
States is expected to augur well for Sri Lanka. Adverse and increasingly 
unpredictable weather conditions on account of climate change 
and significant competition from other tea-producing nations such 
as Kenya, India and China remain as key challenges for the business 
even in the medium to long-term. The business will also continue to 
adopt increased regulations and controls on chemical usage in the 
tea plantation industry to meet maximum residue levels (MRLs). In the 
longer term, artificial intelligence (AI) is expected to be more widely 
adopted, particularly in the grading and auctioning processes.
The long-term priorities for JK PLC include: 
	y
Adopting strategies to drive volume growth and working with 
producers to reduce the inconsistencies in volumes available for 
auctions. 
	y
Further augmenting the strong financial and cost management 
strategies to improve performance levels. 
	y
Optimising the warehousing operations, including increasing the use 
of solar energy, enhancing the racking systems, and improving the 
efficiency of loading and unloading operations. 
	y
Transitioning all physical documents of the warehousing operations 
to electronic formats to minimise the environmental impact.
The long-term priorities for TSF: 
	y
Placing emphasis on the quality of its products whilst also 
diversifying its manufacturing mix to meet market trends and 
mitigate risks. 
	y
Cost optimisation and improving factory utilisation and the efficiency 
of the tea production process. 
	y
Maintaining its reputation as a high-quality producer to the market, 
while exploring opportunities to cater to high-value market 
segments.
	y
Continual evaluation of opportunities arising from the emerging 
Chinese market for Ceylon orthodox black tea. 
	y
Engagement with stakeholders, especially smallholder partners, for 
mutually beneficial outcomes.
INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW
OTHER, INCLUDING INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND PLANTATION SERVICES

205
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
GOVERNANCE
A  way of Life
207  Board and Management Profiles    213  Corporate Governance Commentary
256  Stakeholder Engagement    258  Determining Materiality

206 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
The Governance section of the Annual Report outlines 
the comprehensive frameworks, procedures and 
processes in place to ensure that the value creation cycle 
of the Group continues unhindered.
Board and Management Profiles
Our Board of Directors and Management Team work together, blending diverse backgrounds 
and skills to propel the Group forward. Here, you will find a brief profile of each Director, Group 
Executive Committee member, and Group Operating Committee member.
Corporate Governance Commentary 
Dives into the Group's corporate governance framework which is the cornerstone of all  
decision-making. The discussion is segregated to five parts:
	y
Internal Governance System
	y
Integrated Governance Systems and Procedures
	y
Assurance Mechanisms
	y
Governance Outlook and Emerging Challenges 
	y
Compliance Summary
Stakeholder Engagement 
Outlines the Group's methodology for engagement with its multiple stakeholders and the various 
channels and frequencies through which engagement occurs.
Determining Materiality
Outlines the structured approach followed by the Group to identify material topics in order to 
assess and mitigate potential disruptions, ultimately safeguarding the Group's long-term stability 
and growth.

207
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
BOARD AND MANAGEMENT PROFILES
KRISHAN BALENDRA
Chairperson-CEO 
Executive Director
Krishan Balendra is the Chairperson-CEO of John Keells Holdings PLC. He is also the Chairman of the 
Employers Federation of Ceylon, Deputy Vice Chairman of the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce and the Hon. 
Consul General of the Republic of Poland in Sri Lanka. He is a former Chairman of Nations Trust Bank PLC 
and the Colombo Stock Exchange. Krishan started his career at UBS Warburg, Hong Kong, in investment 
banking, focusing primarily on equity capital markets. He joined JKH in 2002. Krishan holds a law degree 
(LLB) from the University of London and an MBA from INSEAD.
GIHAN COORAY
Deputy Chairperson/Group Finance Director 
Executive Director
Gihan Cooray is the Deputy Chairperson/Group Finance Director and has overall responsibility of the 
Group's Finance and Accounting, Taxation, Corporate Finance and Strategy, Treasury, Information 
Technology and Corporate Communications functions. He is a former Chairman of Nations Trust Bank PLC. 
Gihan holds an MBA from the Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Management at Rice University, Houston, 
Texas. He is a Fellow member of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants, UK, a certified 
management accountant of the Institute of Certified Management Accountants, Australia and has a 
Diploma in Marketing from the Chartered Institute of Marketing, UK. He serves as a committee member of 
The Ceylon Chamber of Commerce.
AMAL CABRAAL
Independent Non-Executive Director
Amal Cabraal is an accomplished business leader with over four decades of management experience in 
both local and international markets. He currently serves as the Chairman of Lion Brewery (Ceylon) PLC, 
Ceylon Beverage Holdings PLC, Silvermill Investment Holdings, and CIC Feeds Group of Companies. In 
addition to his numerous leadership roles, he also serves as a business advisor to several other companies. 
Previously, Amal served as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Unilever Sri Lanka, where he gained 
extensive knowledge and expertise in the consumer goods industry.
He has also completed the stipulated maximum nine-year tenure as a Non-Executive Director of Hatton 
National Bank PLC, providing him with deep insights into the banking sector. Cabraal is a member of 
the Board of the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce, and also serves on the Management Committee of the 
Mercantile Services Provident Society. As a marketer by profession and a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of 
Marketing, UK, he brings a wealth of marketing and branding expertise to his leadership roles. Cabraal holds 
an MBA from the University of Colombo, and is an executive education alumnus of INSEAD, France.
DR. SHARMINI COOREY
Independent Non-Executive Director
Dr. Sharmini Coorey is a former senior official of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and currently a 
member of the Presidential Advisory Group on Multilateral Engagement and Debt Sustainability advising 
the Government of Sri Lanka during the economic crisis. She joined the IMF through the Economist 
Programme in 1986 and, during her 35-year career there, worked in positions of increasing seniority in its 
African, Asia and Pacific, European, and Western hemisphere departments, as well as its Policy Development 
and Review Department. Prior to her retirement in November 2021, Dr. Coorey served for almost nine 
years as the Director of the Institute for Capacity Development (ICD), the IMF's department for capacity 
building. As Director - the most senior staff position at the IMF - she was instrumental in establishing the 
ICD and providing strategic direction for the governance, management, and funding of the IMF's capacity 
building activities. She also oversaw the IMF's training for country officials worldwide and established its 
online programme which trained over 100,000 Government officials in policy-oriented macroeconomics 
during her tenure. Before heading the ICD, Dr. Coorey was the Deputy Director in the IMF's African 
Department, where she oversaw the Fund's work on many Sub-Saharan African countries including South 
Africa, Botswana, and Zimbabwe. In addition, she led the department's financial sector work and research 
agenda. Dr. Coorey's experience at the IMF also includes surveillance work on the United Kingdom, Ireland, 
the United States, and Canada as well as programme work on Korea, Estonia, Mexico, and the Dominican 
Republic. She served on the Investment Committee of the IMF Staff Retirement Plan and on the Editorial 
Committee of IMF Staff Papers. She was also a visiting researcher at George Washington University's 
Elliott School of International Affairs in Washington DC. Dr. Coorey holds a Ph.D. and a bachelor's degree 
in Economics from Harvard University. She has published papers on inflation and economic growth in 
transition and developing countries and edited a book on managing oil wealth in Central African countries.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
SUREN 
FERNANDO
DR. HANS 
WIJAYASURIYA
KRISHAN 
BALENDRA
N
P
ED
GIHAN 
COORAY
P
ED
AMAL 
CABRAAL
A
H
N
R
DR. SHARMINI 
COOREY
N
A
R
H
P
N
NIHAL 
FONSEKA
A
SID
R

208 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
BOARD AND MANAGEMENT PROFILES
SUREN FERNANDO
Independent Non-Executive Director
Counting 25 years with MAS, Suren is the Group Chief Executive Officer of MAS Holdings (Private) Limited, and 
was previously the Chief Transformation Officer of the company overseeing MAS' 2025 transformation. He was 
also the CEO of MAS Intimates, the largest division of MAS Holdings. Among many roles within the organisation, 
he also functioned in the capacity of Chief Operating Officer of MAS Intimates in 2014, heading operations and 
taking leadership in providing strategic management directives. Suren holds a BSc. in Engineering from the 
University of Moratuwa and is a Fellow Member of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants, UK. 
He has received extensive overseas business exposure and training, including Executive Education at Wharton 
Business School, University of Pennsylvania, INSEAD Business School, Ashridge Business School, Henley School 
of Management, University of Waikato in New Zealand, and Harvard Business School (Program for Leadership 
Development). Suren is also a member of the Board of Directors at World Vision Sri Lanka, a non-profitable relief, 
development and advocacy organisation dedicated to working with children, families and communities to 
overcome poverty and injustice.
NIHAL FONSEKA
Independent Non-Executive Director
Nihal Fonseka is a career banker and served as the Chief Executive Officer/Director of DFCC Bank from 2000 
until his retirement in 2013. He is currently a member of the Governing Board and the Monetary Policy Board 
of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka, Chairman of Phoenix Industries Limited, Non-Executive Director and Chairman 
of the Investment Committee of Phoenix Ventures Limited and Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the 
Group Audit Committee of Brandix Lanka Limited. He was a member of the Monetary Board of the Central Bank 
of Sri Lanka from 2016 to 2020, a past President of the Sri Lanka National Advisory Council of the Chartered 
Institute of Securities and Investments, UK, from 2011 to 2021, past Chairman of the Colombo Stock Exchange 
and the Association of Development Financing Institutions in Asia and the Pacific (ADFIAP). He has also 
served as a Director of the Employees' Trust Fund Board and as a member of the Presidential Commission on 
Taxation (2009), National Procurement Commission and Strategic Enterprise Management Agency (SEMA). 
Prior to joining the DFCC Bank, he was the Deputy Chief Executive of HSBC Sri Lanka. He holds a B.Sc. from the 
University of Ceylon, Colombo, is a Fellow of the Institute of Financial Studies (FIB), UK and is an Honorary Fellow 
of the Chartered Institute of Securities and Investments, FCSI(Hon), UK.
DR. HANS WIJAYASURIYA
Independent Non-Executive Director
In his role as the Chief Executive Officer – Telecommunications Business, Dr. Hans Wijayasuriya heads the 
pan-region Telecommunications Operations of the Axiata Group Bhd., spanning the markets of Malaysia, 
Indonesia, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and Cambodia. Axiata is Asia's second largest Telecommunications Group. 
Up to the year 2016, Dr. Wijayasuriya functioned as the Group Chief Executive of Dialog Axiata PLC (Dialog), 
Sri Lanka's leading multi-play connectivity provider. During the period 2012-2014, Dr. Wijayasuriya also 
functioned as the founding CEO of Axiata Digital Services – the Group-wide Digital Services Business of the 
Axiata Group. Dr. Wijayasuriya serves on the Boards of several Axiata Group Companies across Asia and is 
also a Member of the Board of Directors of the GSMA, the Governing Body of the Global Mobile Industry.
In March 2024, Dr. Wijayasuriya was honoured with the 'Chairman's Award' by the GSM Association, in 
recognition of outstanding contribution to the global mobile industry. Previously in 2017, Dr. Wijayasuriya 
was the recipient of the 'Outstanding Contribution to the Asian Mobile Industry' Award in its inaugural year 
of award. Dr. Wijayasuriya was also named 'Sri Lankan of the Year' by Sri Lanka's premier business journal, 
LMD in 2008.
Dr. Wijayasuriya is a past Chairman of the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce, Sri Lanka's premier business 
chamber. Dr. Wijayasuriya is an alumnus of the University of Cambridge UK, and obtained his PhD from the 
University of Bristol UK. A Chartered Engineer and Fellow of the Institute of Engineering Technology UK,  
Dr. Wijayasuriya also holds an MBA from the University of Warwick UK.
A 	 Audit Committee
H 	 Human Resources and 
Compensation Committee 
N 	 Nominations Committee
R 	 Related Party Transactions 
Review Committee
P 	 Project Risk Assessment 
Committee
ED 	 Refer Group Directory 
for directorships held by 
Executive Directors in other 
Group companies
SID	 Senior Independent Director
BOARD OF DIRECTORS

209
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
GROUP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
CHARITHA 
SUBASINGHE
NADIJA 
TAMBIAH
DAMINDA 
GAMLATH
ZAFIR 
HASHIM
NAYANA 
MAWILMADA
SURESH 
RAJENDRA
DAMINDA GAMLATH
President
Daminda Gamlath is the President of the Consumer Foods industry group and has been with the John 
Keells Group since 2002. He was the Sector Financial Controller for the Information Technology sector and 
the Consumer Foods industry group before he was appointed as the Head of Beverages in 2013 and the 
Sector Head in 2017. Prior to joining the John Keells Group, he worked at the Hayleys Group. Daminda holds 
a B.Sc. in Engineering from the University of Moratuwa, an MBA from the University of Colombo and is a 
passed finalist of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (UK).
ZAFIR HASHIM
President
Zafir Hashim is the President of the Transportation industry group and the Plantation sector and has been 
with the Group for 21 years. He joined the Group in 2003, seconded to Lanka Marine Services where he 
served as CEO from 2005-2015. He has also served as a member of the Transportation Sector Committee 
from 2005. During the last 20 years he has held the position of CEO at John Keells Logistics Lanka Limited, 
and Mackinnons Mackenzie Shipping Co. Limited, Mack International Freight Limited and Mackinnons 
Travels Limited. He has an MSc in Chemical Engineering from the University of Birmingham (UK).
NAYANA MAWILMADA
President
Nayana Mawilmada is the President of the Property industry group at JKH. With extensive international 
experience in planning, facilitating, and managing large scale urban development and infrastructure projects 
across 15 countries, and working within both the private and public domains, Nayana brings a unique 
perspective to property sector endeavours. He is widely seen as a key advocate and spokesperson for sound 
urban development policy and planning in the country. Among his previous roles, Nayana has served as the 
Director General of the Urban Development Authority of Sri Lanka, Managing Director of York Street Partners 
(Private) Limited, a boutique investment bank in Colombo and as an Urban Development Specialist for the 
Asian Development Bank based in Manila, Philippines. His academic training includes an MBA from Harvard 
Business School, a Master of City Planning from Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), and a Bachelor 
of Architecture from Hampton University in the USA. In recognition of his leadership in Sri Lanka's urban 
development space, he was also awarded an Eisenhower Fellowship in 2017.
SURESH RAJENDRA
President
Suresh Rajendra has over 30 years of experience in the fields of finance, travel and tourism, hotel management, 
property development and real estate management and business development acquired both in Sri Lanka and 
overseas. Prior to joining the JKH Group, he was the Head of Commercial and Business Development for NRMA 
Motoring and Services in Sydney, Australia and Director/General Manager of Aitken Spence Hotel Managements 
(Private) Limited, Sri Lanka. He is a Fellow member of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants, UK.
He is the President of the Leisure industry group of John Keells and is also responsible for Union Assurance PLC, 
John Keells Information Technology (Private) Limited and John Keells Stockbrokers. He serves as a Director of 
Asian Hotels and Properties PLC, Union Assurance PLC, Trans Asia Hotels PLC, John Keells Hotels PLC and also in 
many of the unlisted companies of the John Keells Group. He is a member of the Tourism Advisory Committee 
appointed by the Ministry of Tourism.
CHARITHA SUBASINGHE
President
Charitha Subasinghe is responsible for the Retail industry group of the Group. He has been with the John 
Keells Group since 2003. He was the Sector Financial Controller of the Supermarket business, before being 
appointed as the CEO in 2005. He was also employed at Aitken Spence Hotel Management as the Sector 
Financial Controller before moving over to John Keells. He is an Associate Member of the Chartered Institute 
of Management Accountants (UK) as well as a Diploma Holder of the Chartered Institute of Marketing (UK). 
He also holds an MBA from the University of Colombo.
NADIJA TAMBIAH
President
Nadija Tambiah is a Barrister at Law and an Attorney at Law. She heads the Legal and Company Secretarial 
functions of the John Keells Group. She also heads the John Keells Foundation, the corporate social 
responsibility arm of John Keells Holdings PLC and is part of the JKH Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Initiative 
of the Group. She is a Trustee of the George Keyt Foundation, Geoffrey Bawa Trust and Lunuganga Trust, and 
a member of the Executive Committee of the Colombo Museum of Modern Art. She is Chair of the Women 
Directors Forum of the Sri Lanka Institute of Directors.

210 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
GROUP OPERATING COMMITTEE
BOARD AND MANAGEMENT PROFILES
RAVI 
WIJEWANTHA
NISREEN 
REHMANJEE
INOKE 
PERERA
RAMESH 
SHANMUGANATHAN
HISHAN 
SINGHAWANSA
SHERIN 
CADER
MIKAEL 
SVENSSON
NELINDRA 
FERNANDO
ARAVINDA 
WANNIARACHCHI
ISURU 
GUNASEKERA
DEVIKA 
WEERASINGHE
CHANGA 
GUNAWARDANE
SHERIN CADER
Executive Vice President
Sherin Cader is the Chief Financial Officer of the Financial Services 
industry of the John Keells Group and the Chairperson of Nations 
Trust Bank PLC. She has been with the John Keells Group since 1998, 
serving in many capacities across multiple sectors. She has played 
diverse roles across finance and operations in Financial Services, the 
IT Enabled Services sector and JKH Centre functions. She functioned 
as the Financial Controller at John Keells Holdings PLC from 2009 
till 2012. Subsequently she took on the role of General Manager - 
Finance and Planning at Union Assurance PLC until her current role 
within the Financial Services industry group of JKH. . She is a Fellow 
Member of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants 
UK, and the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants of UK 
and is also a Chartered Global Management Accountant. She is also 
SAP Certified in Managerial and Financial Accounting.
NELINDRA FERNANDO
Executive Vice President
Nelindra Fernando is the Chief Financial Officer for the Consumer 
Foods industry group. Nelindra has been with the John Keells 
Group since 2013. Prior to joining the Group, she worked at the 
MAS group for 12 years and Ernst & Young, Chartered Accountants 
for four years. Nelindra serves on the Board of Ceylon Cold Stores 
PLC as an Executive Director and at Keells Food Products PLC as a 
Non-Executive Director. She is a member of the Chartered Institute 
of Management Accountants of UK and the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of Sri Lanka.
ISURU GUNASEKERA
Executive Vice President
Isuru Gunasekera is the Chief People Officer of the Group, whilst 
also overseeing Group Sustainability, Enterprise Risk Management 
and Group Initiatives. He joined the Group in 2001 into the New 
Business Development Division and thereafter headed Group 
Initiatives and also new projects for the Transportation sector. 
He was the CEO of John Keells Logistics for 10 years and CEO of 
Mackinnons Travels for a short period. Prior to joining the Group, he 
was attached to J P Morgan Chase. He holds a bachelor's degree in 
business administration from Loyola Marymount University, USA.

211
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
CHANGA GUNAWARDANE
Executive Vice President
Changa Gunawardane oversees the financial health of the Leisure 
Industry Group of John Keells Holdings as the Chief Financial Officer and 
has been with the John Keells Group for over 18 years. Changa currently 
serves as a Non-Executive Director on the Board of Asian Hotels and 
Properties PLC, Trans Asia Hotels PLC and also in many of the unlisted 
companies of the John Keells Group. 
Changa brings extensive financial leadership experience from his current 
role and his previous role within John Keells Group as the Chief Financial 
Officer for the Information Technology Sector as well as the Sector 
Financial Controller for the Airlines and Logistics Business Unit, within the 
Transportation Sector. He also has over 29 years of financial experience 
across diverse industries spanning Pharmaceutical, Manufacturing, 
Management Services, Electrical Engineering and Construction.     
A Fellow Member of the Chartered Institute of Management 
Accountants in the UK, he holds an MBA from the Postgraduate Institute 
of Management, University of Sri Jayewardenepura, Sri Lanka. 
NISREEN REHMANJEE
Executive Vice President
Nisreen Rehmanjee is the Head of Corporate Finance, Group Tax and 
Social Entrepreneurship of the John Keells Group. Starting her career 
as an accounts trainee with KPMG in 1995, she rose to the position of 
Director Tax in 2001. She then joined the John Keells Group as Head of 
Tax Strategy in 2005. Her overseas experience includes a stint with the 
Global Tax Solutions team in London during her tenure with KPMG and a 
3-year secondment to India with the John Keells IT/ITES cluster as Head 
of Corporate Functions. She was instrumental in conceptualising and 
launching the 'Plasticcycle' initiative of the John Keells Group, which is 
focused towards reducing plastic pollution across Sri Lanka. Nisreen is a 
Fellow member of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants, 
UK and the Institute of Certified Management Accountants of Sri Lanka. 
Additionally, she is a member of the Tax Sub-committee of the Ceylon 
Chamber of Commerce and a past President of ACCA Sri Lanka.
RAMESH SHANMUGANATHAN
Executive Vice President
Ramesh Shanmuganathan is the Group's Chief Information Officer, a 
member of the Group Management Committee for the Information 
Technology sector, as well as Chief Executive of John Keells IT and John 
Keells X. Ramesh is also an Executive Director at John Keells IT, Infomate 
as well as John Keells Lanka BPO Services in addition to being a Non-
Executive Director at Nations Trust Bank PLC. He has over 25 years of 
experience in the ICT industry in Sri Lanka and the USA, with over 20+ 
years in C-level management. Ramesh is a Hayes-Fulbright Scholar and 
holds to his credit a Doctor of Philosophy (Technology Management) 
from Keisei International University (Seoul, South Korea), Master of Science 
(Information Technology and Computer Science) with Phi Kappa Phi 
Honours from Rochester Institute of Technology (New York, USA), Master 
of Business Administration from Postgraduate Institute of Management, 
University of Sri Jayewardenepura, Bachelor of Science in Electronics 
and Telecommunications Engineering with First Class Honours from the 
University of Moratuwa. He is at present reading for his Doctor of Business 
Administration (DBA) at the International School of Management, Paris. 
He is a Chartered Engineer, Chartered IT Professional and a Fellow of the 
British Computer Society and Institute of Engineers, UK. He has active 
memberships in several other professional institutions and is a visiting 
faculty member for several post-graduate programmes. He is an active 
advocate of Digital Transformation and Open Innovation and speaks in 
many international events and forums in this regard.
HISHAN SINGHAWANSA
Executive Vice President
Hishan Singhawansa is the Deputy CEO at Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts 
of the Leisure industry group and overlooks Cinnamon's entire portfolio 
of hotels and resorts in Sri Lanka and the Maldives including the 
development of the much-anticipated integrated resort project,  
'City of Dreams Sri Lanka'. He has been with the John Keells Group since 
2008 and started his career at the Retail industry Group of John Keells, 
where he was with Category Management and headed Supply Chain 
before moving into the Leisure industry group in 2017. He holds a BSc in 
Engineering (Hons) Degree from the University of Moratuwa and an MBA 
from the University of Wales.
MIKAEL SVENSSON
Executive Vice President
Mikael Svensson serves as the Chief Executive Officer of Cinnamon Hotels 
& Resorts, where he oversees the entirety of Cinnamon's distinguished 
collection of hotels and resorts across Sri Lanka and the Maldives. 
His leadership includes the highly anticipated development of the 
integrated resort project, 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka'. With over 30 years of 
international senior leadership experience in managing and operating 
luxury hotels, Mikael brings a proven track record of success across 
diverse markets in Asia, the Middle East, and Australia. His expertise has 
been honed through his tenure at the esteemed Hyatt Group, where 
he held various pivotal roles for over two decades. Prior to joining the 
John Keells Group, Mikael served as the Senior Vice President of Louis 
T Collection, a Singapore-based hospitality management and building 
solutions company. In this capacity, he oversaw a portfolio of hotels 
across Asia and Australia.
ARAVINDA WANNIARACHCHI
Executive Vice President
Aravinda Wanniarachchi is the Chief Financial Officer of Retail. He joined 
the John Keells Group in 2007 and was attached to the Corporate 
Finance and Strategy team prior to joining the Retail industry group. He 
is a Chartered Financial Analyst, an Associate member of the Chartered 
Institute of Management Accountants UK and holds a BBA Marketing 
(Sp.) degree from the University of Colombo.
DEVIKA WEERASINGHE
Executive Vice President
Devika Weerasinghe is the Chief Financial Officer of the Transportation 
industry group, Plantation Services sector and Information Technology 
sector. She previously held the position of Sector Financial Controller 
of the Transportation sector. She also served as the Sector Financial 
Controller of the Airlines businesses of the Transportation sector during 
the period 1998-2004. An Associate member of the Chartered Institute 
of Management Accountants UK, Devika also holds a Bachelor's Degree 
in Business Administration, from the University of Sri Jayewardenepura.

212 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
BOARD AND MANAGEMENT PROFILES
GROUP OPERATING COMMITTEE
RAVI WIJEWANTHA
Executive Vice President
Ravi Wijewantha joined the Group in September 2003 and was 
appointed as Sector Financial Controller of the Property industry group 
in July 2006 and Chief Financial Officer of the same Industry Group in 
July 2017. He has over 25 years of experience in the fields of auditing 
and accounting. He is an Associate Member of the Chartered Institute of 
Management Accountants UK and holds an MBA from ICFAI University 
Dehradun India. He also holds an LLB and LLM from Buckinghamshire 
New University. 
INOKE PERERA
Executive Vice President
Inoke Perera is the Sector Head of the Property industry at the John 
Keells Group. He previously held the position of Chief Operating 
Officer for the Property industry group. Inoke joined the John Keells 
Group in September 2003 and was appointed as Head of Commercial 
Operations of the Property industry group in July 2006 and Head of 
Operations of the same industry group in July 2012. He started his 
career in accounting, holding positions in Financial Accounting, System 
Implementation, Management Accounting, Business Analysis and 
Finance. He then later switched to Project Management, Commercial 
and Operations. He has over 25 years of experience in Venture Capital, 
Consultancy, Property Management and Property Development 
Industry. He is an Associate Member of the Chartered Institute of 
Management Accounting, holds a Master of Business Administration 
from the Postgraduate Institute of Management, University of Sri 
Jayewardenepura, and is currently reading for a Master of Laws (LLM) 
at Cardiff Metropolitan University, UK. He is an executive committee 
member of the Condominium Developers Association of Sri Lanka 
(CDASL).

213
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Mandatory Regulatory Frameworks – fully compliant
The Companies Act No. 7 of 2007 including applicable regulations
Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE), including circulars
Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka (SEC) Act No. 19 of 2021, including rules, 
regulations, directives and circulars 
Code of Best Practices on Related Party Transactions (2013) advocated by the SEC
Voluntary Frameworks and Standards  
Code of Best Practice on Corporate Governance (2013) jointly advocated by the Securities and 
Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka (SEC) and the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri 
Lanka (CA Sri Lanka)
Code of Best Practice on Corporate Governance (2017) issued by CA Sri Lanka – compliant to 
the extent of business exigency and as required by the Group*
Reporting Frameworks
International Integrated Reporting Framework published by the International Integrated 
Reporting Council (IIRC)
Global Reporting Initiative Standards
Internal Mechanisms 
Articles of Association 
Internal Policies
1.1	 Compliance Summary  
Key internal policies:
	y
Code of Conduct, which also includes 
policies on gifts, entertainment, facilitation 
payments, proprietary and confidential 
information
	y
Policies at a Board level covering 
nominations, remuneration audit and 
internal controls
	y
Policies on anti-fraud, anti-corruption, 
anti-money laundering and countering 
the financing of terrorism and bidding 
for contracts, including on Government 
contracts
	y
Policy on diversity, equity and inclusion, 
including a gender policy
	y
Policies on equal opportunities, non-
discrimination, career management and 
promotions, including on employees with 
disabilities 
	y
Leave (which also encompasses the equal 
parental leave), flexi-hours, tele-working 
and agile working policies including health 
and safety enhancements and protocols 
	y
Information Technology (IT) policies and 
procedures, including data protection, 
classification and security
	y
Policy on communications and ethical 
advertising, complemented by social media 
and crisis communication guidelines
	y
Policy on enterprise risk management 
	y
Policies on products and services
	y
Recruitment and selection, rewards and 
recognition, and learning and development 
polices
	y
Policies on whistleblowing, grievance 
handling and disciplinary procedures
	y
Policy against sexual harassment 
	y
Policy on forced, compulsory child labour 
and child protection 
	y
Group accounting procedures and policies 
	y
Policies on fund management and foreign 
exchange risk mitigation 
	y
Insider trading policy 
	y
Ombudsperson policy
	y
Group sustainability policies including 
policies on energy, emissions, water, waste 
management and biodiversity conservation
	y
Supplier Code of Conduct
The Group's policy commitments available to all employees via the Group's employee portal.  
These policy commitments are approved by the Group Executive Committee with Board oversight. 
The Group is in the process of making available all applicable policies in the public domain.
*CA Sri Lanka issued an updated Code of Best Practice on Corporate Governance (2023) in December 2023 effective from  
1 April 2024. The updated Code will be reviewed and adopted to the extent of business exigency and as required by the Group.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMENTARY
The Group's governance framework is 
supported by internal policies processes and 
structures aimed at meeting, and, where 
possible, exceeding accepted best practice, 
in addition to the 'triggers' which ensure 
compliance with mandatory regulatory 
requirements. This framework is regularly 
reviewed and updated to reflect global best 
practice, evolving regulations, and dynamic 
stakeholder needs, while maintaining its 
foundational principles of accountability, 
participation, integrity and transparency. 
In improving the quality and relevance 
of our governance reporting, the Group 
has to structure the narrative in a manner 
that showcases the Board's activities and 
contribution to value creation during the 
year. Compliance with applicable statutory 
requirements is summarised in the narrative and 
discussed in detail in the compliance tables. 
The ensuing discussion comprises of the 
following key aspects: 
	y
Significant components of the JKH 
Corporate Governance System 
	y
Monitoring mechanisms in place to 
ensure strict compliance with the Group's 
Governance policy 
	y
Outlook and emerging challenges for 
corporate governance 
	y
JKH's compliance with all mandatory 
requirements of law and its voluntary 
adoption of recommended codes in the 
governance field 
The Group's robust and 
comprehensive corporate 
governance framework, 
endeavours to create an 
enabling environment for 
growth in a structured, 
sustainable and transparent 
manner, whilst following all 
mandatory regulations and 
ensuring the highest levels of 
corporate governance.
The Group's corporate governance 
philosophy is institutionalised across all 
its business units, and this philosophy 
has continuously created value for all 
its stakeholders, notwithstanding the 
external environment and macroeconomic 
conditions.

214 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
1.3	 Key Announcements to the 
Colombo Stock Exchange in 
2023/24
	y
As required under the revised CSE Listing 
Rules, a market announcement was made 
to disclose that the Chairperson of the 
Company is an Executive Director, and 
that the Chairperson and Chief Executive 
Officer positions of the Company are held 
by the same individual. The role of Senior 
Independent Director has been in place for 
over a decade at JKH with other relevant 
'checks and balances' from a governance 
perspective, as disclosed to the CSE. 
Given that the role and appointment of a 
Senior Independent Director has already 
been implemented by the Company, it is 
compliant in terms of the alternate option 
provided under Section 9.6.1 and Section 
9.6.3 of the CSE Listing Rules.
	y
In November 2023, the Board resolved to 
terminate the Regulation S and Rule 144A 
Global Depositary Receipts Programmes 
(collectively, the 'GDR Programme'), 
owing to the relatively low number of 
Global Depositary Receipts (GDR) in issue. 
Considering the GDRs are not a significant 
contributor to facilitating trading in 
Company securities, the termination would 
not have an impact on the Company. GDR 
holders have the option to convert to 
ordinary shares in the Company and will be 
able to cancel their GDR's up to six months 
after their termination date (until 14 June 
2024). 
	y
As disclosed in the Annual Report 2022/23, 
JKH issued 208,125,000 LKR denominated 
debentures with a face value of Rs.27.06 
billion, to HWIC Asia Fund ('HWIC'), a 
subsidiary of Fairfax Financial Holdings 
Limited, in August 2022. The debentures 
were issued at Rs.130 per Debenture 
with the option for conversion to shares 
at a ratio of 1:1, based on the approval 
granted by the shareholders at the time. In 
February 2024, HWIC exercised its option 
to convert 110,000,000 Debentures, with a 
face value of Rs.14.30 billion. Accordingly, 
JKH issued and listed 110,000,000 new 
ordinary shares of the Company in favour 
of HWIC, resulting in a dilution of 7.34%. 
The remaining outstanding Debentures 
post this conversion amount to 98,125,000 
Debentures with a face value of Rs.12.76 
billion. The remaining Debentures are 
eligible for conversion till 12 August 2025.
1.2	 Corporate Governance Highlights for 2023/24
	y
JKH was ranked first in the Transparency in Corporate Reporting (TRAC) Assessment by 
Transparency International Sri Lanka (TISL) for the fourth consecutive year, with a 100% score 
for transparency in disclosure practices. This ranking is based on an assessment of corporate 
disclosure practices among the top 125 companies listed on the Colombo Stock Exchange 
(CSE), under six different thematic areas crucial to fighting and preventing corruption – 
reporting on anti-corruption programmes, organisational transparency, country-by-country 
reporting, domestic financial reporting, reporting on gender and non-discrimination and 
reporting on procurement related to Government contracts and tenders. 
	y
As a part of the Group's ongoing efforts towards increasing emphasis on Environmental, 
Social and Governance (ESG) aspects, the Group undertook initiatives to further strengthen 
its ESG framework and identify focus areas for each industry Group that dovetail into Group 
level priorities based on relevance and materiality. 
•	 In collaboration with an international consulting firm, the Group conducted an in-depth 
study across its businesses to identify areas of significant impact, risk and materiality. 
This initiative was led by a steering committee appointed by the Group Executive 
Committee (GEC). 
•	 Workshops were convened across the industry groups to assess and formulate ESG 
ambitions for the respective businesses, to aid the Group in developing comprehensive 
roadmaps aimed at achieving the set ESG ambitions. As a part of this process, businesses 
were benchmarked against regional peers and best-in-class practices of the respective 
industries the businesses operate in.
	y
Data governance initiatives: 
•	 The Data Governance Steering Committee was established to facilitate the review and 
enhancement of existing data governance practices of the Group, in compliance with 
applicable laws (including the Personal Data Protection Act No 9 of 2022) and best 
practice. The Committee focused on revisiting internal data governance policies and 
engaging with the respective industry groups to review, and, where relevant, facilitate 
the enhancement of their personal data protection processes towards ensuring a robust 
and more transparent data protection framework. 
•	 The Group piloted and implemented a series of new initiatives throughout the year 
to strengthen the effectiveness of the forensic data analytics platform and related 
capabilities to complement Continuous Controls Monitoring (CCM) and internal audit 
engagements.
	y
Cybersecurity initiatives: 
•	 The Group engaged with a leading international consultancy firm to conduct a 
comprehensive assessment of the Group's cybersecurity resilience, by aligning with 
industry best practice and recommended technological principles. This initiative was 
carried out to strengthen the efficiency, security and reliability of the Group's cloud eco-
system to proactively manage risk.  
•	 As a part of the ongoing commitment towards improving cyber security and digitisation 
to achieve optimum operational excellence, an 'Endpoint Detection and Response 
(EDR)' solution was implemented across the Group. A SMART Office mobile application 
was also rolled-out across the Group to empower employees with the necessary tools to 
improve mobility, streamline and automate processes, and increase productivity.
	y
During the year, the Group embarked on a project to transform the Group Competency 
Framework which has been in use for over a decade. The outcome was a refreshed and more 
relevant set of new competencies termed 'Success Drivers' which will be implemented for 
use during the ensuing year. The 'Success Drivers' evolved through the establishment of a 
series of workshops and discussions, and has been developed to be current, relevant and 
flexible in the context of the diversity of the Group talent pool and range of demographics it 
operates in. 
	y
The Group strengthened its internal policy universe, keeping in line with best practice and 
the revised CSE Listing Rules, including reviewing the policies from a holistic perspective 
and ensuring improved alignment in terms of its interdependencies with other related 
policies which have been developed over time.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMENTARY

215
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
	y
In April 2024, the Group announced that 
a wholly-owned subsidiary of Melco 
Resorts & Entertainment Limited ('Melco'), 
will be the operator of the gaming facility 
at the integrated resort which has been 
developed by JKH at an investment of over 
USD 1 billion. The wholly-owned locally 
incorporated subsidiary of Melco has been 
awarded a license from the Government 
of Sri Lanka for a period of 20 years, 
under the stipulated criteria, to operate a 
casino at the integrated resort. Melco will 
invest ~USD 125 million in the fit-out and 
equipping of the gaming space. As part of 
the collaboration between JKH and Melco, 
the integrated resort, which had previously 
been branded as 'Cinnamon Life Integrated 
Resort', will be rebranded as 'City of Dreams 
Sri Lanka'.
	y
The Board declared a final dividend of 
Rs.0.50 per share in May 2023 for the 
financial year 2022/23. The Board approved 
a first and second interim dividend of 
Rs.0.50 per share each, in November 
2023 and January 2024. A final dividend 
of Rs.0.50 per share was also declared in 
May 2024 for the financial year 2023/24. 
Accordingly, the dividend declared for 
2023/24 is Rs.1.50 per share [2022/23: 
Rs.2.00 per share], amounting to a total 
dividend outlay of Rs.2.08 billion. 
1.4	 Board Appointments and 
Retirements in 2023/24
	y
Having completed nine consecutive 
years, Ms. P Perera (Independent, 
Non-Executive Director) retired from 
the Board of Directors with effect from 
1 July 2023. 
	y
Mr. S Fernando was appointed to 
the Board as an Independent, Non-
Executive Director of the Company 
with effect from 9 August 2023.
  
1.5	 Highlights of the 44th Annual General Meeting Held on 30 June 2023  
	y
Mr. D A Cabraal, who retired in terms of Article 84 of the Articles of Association of the 
Company was re-elected as a Non-Executive Independent Director of the Company. 
	y
Mr. J G A Cooray, who retired in terms of Article 84 of the Articles of Association of the 
Company was re-elected as an Executive Director of the Company. 
	y
Dr. S A Coorey, who retired in terms of Article 91 of the Articles of Association of the 
Company was re-elected as a Non-Executive Independent Director of the Company. 
	y
Mr. A N Fonseka, who has attained the age of 70 and retired in terms of Section 210 of 
Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 was re-appointed as a Non-Executive Senior Independent 
Director of the Company. 
	y
Ernst & Young (E&Y) was re-appointed as the External Auditors of the Company and the 
Directors were authorised to determine the remuneration of E&Y.  
The 45th Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on 28 June 2024.
1.6	 Corporate Governance Disclosures
Disclosures
Reference section 
The Governance System 
2 
The Board of Directors 
3.1 
Audit Committee 
3.2.1 
Human Resources and Compensation Committee 
3.2.2 
Nominations Committee 
3.2.3 
Related Party Transactions Review Committee 
3.2.4 
Project Risk Assessment Committee 
3.2.5 
Chairperson-Chief Executive Officer 
3.3 
Group Executive Committee and other Management Committees 
3.4 
Strategy Formulation and Decision-Making Process 
4.1 
Human Resource Governance 
4.2 
Integrated Risk Management 
4.3 
Information Technology Governance 
4.4 
Tax Governance 
4.5 
Stakeholder Management and Effective Communication 
4.6 
Sustainability Governance
4.7
Assurance Mechanisms 
5 
Governance Outlook and Emerging Challenges
6
Compliance Summary 
7 

216 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMENTARY
LEVEL
INTEGRATED 
GOVERNANCE
Integrated Governance 
Systems and Procedures
INTERNAL GOVERNANCE 
STRUCTURE
Board of Directors and  
Senior Management Committees
ASSURANCE 
MECHANISMS 
REGULATORY 
MECHANISMS
Group
Group + 
Industry / 
Function
Industry / 
Function
Sector /  
Function /  
Sub-sector
Business / 
Function /  
BU /  
Department
Chairperson-CEO
Group Executive Committee (GEC)
Group Operating Committee (GOC)
Group Management Committee (GMC)
Sector Committee
Management Committee
Employee Empowerment
Strategy Formulation 
and Decision-Making 
Process
Human Resource 
Governance
Integrated Risk 
Management
IT Governance
Tax Governance
Stakeholder 
Management and 
Effective 
Communication
Sustainability 
Governance
JKH Code of 
Conduct
Senior 
Independent 
Director
Board 
Sub-Committees
Employee 
Participation
Internal 
Control
Ombudsperson
External 
Audit
Companies Act No. 7 of 2007
Mandatory compliance
Securities and Exchange 
Commission of Sri Lanka (SEC) 
Act No. 19 of 2021, including 
directives and circulars
Mandatory compliance
Listing Rules of the Colombo 
Stock Exchange (CSE)
Mandatory compliance
Code of Best Practice on 
Related Party Transactions 
(2013) advocated by the SEC
Mandatory compliance
The Code of Best Practice on 
Corporate Governance (2013) 
as published by the SEC and 
the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants, Sri Lanka  
(CA Sri Lanka)
Voluntary compliance
The Code of Best Practice on 
Corporate Governance (2017) 
issued by CA Sri Lanka
Voluntary compliance with almost 
the full 2017 Code, to the extent of 
business exigency and as required  
by the John Keells Group
Board of 
Directors
Human Resources 
and Compensation 
Committee
Related Party 
Transactions 
Review 
Committee
Audit 
Committee
Nominations 
Committee
Project Risk 
Assessment 
Committee
2	
THE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SYSTEM
Refer Section 3
Refer Section 6
	y
All five Board Sub-Committees are chaired by Independent Directors appointed by the Board.
	y
The Chairperson-CEO is present at all Human Resources and Compensation Committee meetings unless the Chairperson-CEO's performance 
assessment or remuneration is under discussion. The Deputy Chairperson/Group Finance Director is invited, as necessary.
	y
Audit Committee meetings are attended by the Chairperson-CEO, the Deputy Chairperson/Group Finance Director and the Head of Group Business 
Process Review, as the Committee Secretary. External Auditors and the Group Financial Controller are regular attendees.
	y
The GOC acts as the binding agent to the various businesses within the Group towards identifying and extracting Group synergies.
	y
Only the key components are depicted in the diagram. 
   Refer 4.1
   Refer 4.2
   Refer 4.3
   Refer 4.4
   Refer 4.5
   Refer 4.6
   Refer 4.7
   Refer 5.1
   Refer 5.2
   Refer 5.3
   Refer 5.4
   Refer 5.5
   Refer 5.6
   Refer 5.7

217
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
3	
INTERNAL GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE
The Internal Governance Structure comprises of the committees which formulate, execute and monitor Group strategies and initiatives and the 
policies, processes and procedures employed for doing so. These components have an impact on the execution and monitoring of all governance 
related initiatives, systems and methods, and is illustrated as follows:
Audit 
Committee 
Purpose: 
To assist the Board in 
meeting its oversight 
responsibilities 
pertaining to Group 
financial statements, risk 
management, internal 
controls, legal and 
regulatory frameworks.
Human Resources 
and Compensation 
Committee
Purpose: 
	y
To assist the Board in 
the establishment of 
remuneration policies 
and practices.
	y
To review and 
recommend 
appropriate 
remuneration 
packages for the CEO 
and other Executive 
Directors.
Nominations 
Committee 
Purpose: 
	y
To lead the process of 
Board appointments 
and recommendations 
to the Board.
	y
To define and establish 
a nomination process 
for Non-Executive 
Directors.
Related Party 
Transactions Review 
Committee
Purpose: 
To ensure that all related 
party transactions of the 
Group are consistent 
with the Code on Related 
Party Transactions issued 
by the SEC and with the 
Listing Rules of the CSE.
Project Risk 
Assessment 
Committee
Purpose: 
To evaluate and 
assess risks associated 
with significant new 
investments at the initial 
stages of formulation 
and in any event prior to 
making any contractual 
commitments for the 
long-term.
Refer 3.2.1
Refer 3.2.2
Refer 3.2.3
Refer 3.2.4
Refer 3.2.5
Board of Directors 
Chairperson-CEO 
Senior Management Committees
Employee Empowerment
Purpose: Assess the overall direction and implement strategy of the business; fiduciary duty towards protecting stakeholder interests; monitor 
the performance of the senior management; ensure effectiveness of governance practices; implement a framework for risk assessment and 
management, including internal controls etc. 
Purpose as Chairperson: 
	y
To provide leadership to the Board whilst inculcating good 
governance and ensuring effectiveness of the Board.
	y
Ensure constructive working relations are maintained between the 
Executive and Non-Executive members of the Board.
	y
Ensure, with the assistance of the Board Secretary, that:
•	 Board procedures are followed.
•	 Information is disseminated in a timely manner to the Board.
Purpose: Led by the Chairperson-CEO, these committees execute strategies and policies determined by the Board, manage through delegation 
and empowerment, the business and affairs of the Group, make portfolio decisions and prioritises the allocation of the capital, technical and 
human resources thereby ensuring that value is created/enhanced for all stakeholders throughout the value chain. 
Purpose: Effective recruitment, development and retention of this vital stakeholder, by equipping employees with the necessary skill set and 
competencies, to enable them to execute management decisions. 
Purpose as CEO: 
	y
Execute strategies and policies of the Board.
	y
Ensure the efficient management of all businesses. 
	y
Guide and supervise Executive Directors towards striking a balance 
between their Board and Executive responsibilities.
	y
Ensure the operating model of the Group is aligned with short and 
long-term strategies of the Group.
	y
Ensure succession at the very senior levels is planned.
Reporting obligations
Operations Management Performance feedback
Delegated authority
Leadership and control
Accountability through reporting obligations
Refer 3.1
Refer 3.3
Refer 3.4
Refer 3.5
The components of the internal governance structures are strengthened and complemented by internal policies, processes and procedures, such as, 
strategy formulation and decision-making, human resource governance, sustainability governance, integrated risk management, IT governance, tax 
stewardship and stakeholder management and effective communication. 

218 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMENTARY
3.1	
The Board of Directors
3.1.1	 Board Oversight, Functions and 
Responsibilities  
While the Board is accountable and 
responsible for the strategic direction and 
management of the Company, it typically 
delegates the authority to the Chairperson-
CEO and senior management to carry out 
day-to-day operations of the businesses. Once 
the Board has delegated broad authority, 
its primary responsibility is to oversee 
management's performance and ensure 
compliance with the broad policies and 
established governance principles. 
Board oversight involves the continual 
inquiry by Directors into whether the Board's 
delegation of authority to management is 
reasonable, and whether the Board has received 
sufficient and accurate information from 
management to make that determination. 
Typical areas of oversight include strategic 
initiatives, financial performance, the integrity 
of financial statements, accounting and 
financial reporting processes, risk management, 
governance and compliance, and 
environmental, social and governance (ESG) 
matters. The Group's governance framework 
ensures that Directors are well-positioned to 
satisfy their oversight responsibility through 
periodic assessment of Board agenda priorities 
and the related structures, processes, and 
controls that are in place to ensure that the 
Board is well-informed on a timely basis of 
matters requiring attention. 
The Board's key responsibilities include:
	y
Providing direction and guidance to the Group in the formulation of sustainable, high-level, 
medium, and long-term strategies which are aimed at promoting the long-term success of the 
Group.
	y
Reviewing and approving annual plans and long-term business plans.
	y
Tracking actual progress against plans.
	y
Ensuring business is conducted with due consideration on ESG factors.
	y
Reviewing HR processes with emphasis on top management succession planning, including 
the diversity, equity and inclusion (DE&I) strategy.
	y
Ensuring operations are carried within the scope of the Enterprise Risk Management framework.
	y
Appointing and reviewing the performance of the Chairperson-CEO.
	y
Ensuring compliance with laws, regulations and ethical standards and monitoring systems of 
governance and compliance, including concerns on ethics, bribery and corruption.
	y
Overseeing systems of internal control, risk management and establishing whistle-blowing 
conduits.
	y
Determining any changes to the discretions/authorities delegated from the Board to the 
executive levels.
	y
Reviewing and approving major acquisitions, disposals and capital expenditure.
	y
Approving any amendments to constitutional documents.
	y
Approving the issue of JKH equity/debt/hybrid securities.
	y
Ensuring all related party transactions are compliant with statutory obligations.
	y
Ensuring that the Company's values and standards are set with emphasis on adopting 
appropriate accounting policies and fostering compliance with financial regulations.
	y
Ensuring all stakeholder interests are considered in corporate decisions.
	y
Ensuring sustainable business development in corporate strategy decisions and activities. 
	y
Fulfilling such other Board functions as are vital, given the scale, nature and complexity of the 
business concerned.
3.1.2	 Board Composition
As at 21 May 2024, the Board comprised of seven Directors, with five of them being Independent 
Non-Executive Directors, ensuring a strong element of independence on the Board. 
Independent Non-Executive Directors add value to strategic discussions and decision-making, 
whilst enhancing fair-mindedness. The Group policy is to maintain a healthy balance between 
Executive, Non-Executive and Independent Directors, in keeping with the applicable rules and 
codes, with the Executive Directors bringing in deep knowledge of the businesses and the Non-
Executive Independent Directors bringing in experience, objectivity and independent oversight.
The key changes to the Board composition during the year under review are as follows:
	y
Ms. P Perera (Independent Non-Executive Director) retired from the Board with effect from  
1 July 2023, having served on the Board of Directors for nine consecutive years. 
	y
Mr. S Fernando was appointed to the Board with effect from 9 August 2023 as an Independent 
Non-Executive Director. 
“Typical areas of oversight 
include strategic initiatives, 
financial performance, 
the integrity of financial 
statements, accounting 
and financial reporting 
processes, risk management, 
governance and compliance, 
and environmental, social and 
governance (ESG) matters.”

219
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
3.1.3	 Board Skills
The Group is conscious of the need to maintain an appropriate mix of skills and experience in the 
Board through an annual review of its composition in order to ensure Board balance, diversity and 
appropriate levels of relevant skills and expertise aligned with the current and future needs of the 
Company and the Group.
Collectively, the Board brings in a multi-dimensional wealth of diverse exposure in the fields of 
management, business administration, banking, finance, economics, taxation, marketing and 
human resources. All Directors possess the skills, expertise and knowledge complemented with a 
high sense of integrity and independent judgement. 
Further details of their qualifications and experience are provided under the Board and Management  
Profiles section - page 207
3.1.4	 Board Access to Independent Professional Advice
To preserve the independence of the Board and to strengthen decision-making, the Board 
is encouraged, where applicable and relevant, to seek independent professional advice, in 
furtherance of their duties, at the Group's expense. This is coordinated through the Board Secretary, 
as and when requested. 
3.1.5	 Board Appointment
Board appointments follow a structured and formal process within the purview of the 
Nominations Committee. The Committee has overall responsibility for making recommendations 
to the Board on all new appointments and for ensuring that the Board and its Committees have 
the appropriate balance of skills. The Board considers the recommendations of the Nominations 
Committee for appointment or re-election by the Board and where relevant by the shareholders at 
the Annual General Meeting. 
Details of new Director appointments are 
disclosed to the Colombo Stock Exchange 
and media at the time of their appointment 
through a public announcement, covering the 
following:
	y
A brief resume of the Director.
	y
The nature of their expertise in relevant 
functional areas.
	y
The names of companies in which 
the Director holds directorships or 
memberships in board committees.
	y
Whether such Director can be considered 
'Independent'.
Details of such appointments are also carried 
in the relevant Interim Releases, the Annual 
Reports and Investor Relations publications. 
The appointment of all Directors complies 
with applicable laws and rules, including 
the qualifying and fit-and-proper criteria 
stipulated by the Listing Rules and Companies 
Act. Further, each Director annually signs 
a declaration which determines their 
independence based on such declaration 
and other information available to the Board. 
Directors are required to report any substantial 
change in their professional responsibilities 
and business associations to the Nominations 
Committee, which will examine the facts and 
circumstances and make recommendations to 
the Board accordingly.
The Terms of Reference for the members of the 
Nominations Committee, and the Committee 
report can be found in the Nominations 
Committee section of this report - page 227
3.1.6	 Board Induction and Training
When Directors are newly appointed to 
the Board, they undergo a comprehensive 
induction where they are apprised, inter-alia, 
of the Group values and culture, its operating 
model, policies, governance framework 
and processes, the Code of Conduct (which 
includes anti-corruption and anti-bribery) and 
the operational, environmental and social 
strategies of the Group.
Additionally, the newly appointed Directors 
are granted access to relevant segments of 
the business and are given the opportunity to 
meet with Key Management Personnel and 
other key third-party service providers such as, 
External Auditors and Risk Consultants. 
The current composition of the JKH Board is illustrated as follows:
Name of 
Director
Executive/ Non-
Executive Director
Independent/
Non-Independent 
Director
Year of 
Appointment
Age (as at 21 May 2024)
Meeting 
Attendance
(Eligible 
to attend/
Attended)
Board  
Sub-Committee 
Membership
Tenure on the 
Board (Years)
AC
HRCC
NC
RPTRC
PRAC
A Cabraal
NED
ID
2013/14
67
5/5
10
S Coorey
NED
ID
2022/23
65
5/5
1
S Fernando**
NED
ID
2023/24
50
3/3
9 Months
N Fonseka*
NED
ID
2013/14
71
5/5
10
H Wijayasuriya
NED
ID
2016/17
56
5/5
7
K Balendra
ED
NID
2016/17
51
5/5
7
G Cooray
ED
NID
2016/17
47
5/5
7
  Member 
 
  Chair
*Senior Independent Director.
**Appointed to the Board with effect from 9 August 2023.
Designation
(No. of Directors)
Gender
Age group
(years)
Board tenure
(years)
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
ED
SID
NED
40-50
51-60
>60
<8
5-8
Below 5
Male
Female
AC - Audit Committee
HRCC - Human Resources and Compensation Committee
NC - Nominations Committee
RPTRC - Related Party Transactions Review Committee
PRAC - Project Risk Assessment Committee

220 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMENTARY
The Board of Directors recognise the need for continuous training and expansion of knowledge 
and undertakes such professional development, as they consider necessary, to assist them in 
carrying out their duties as Directors.
3.1.7	 Re-Election
All Non-Executive Directors are appointed for a period of three years and can serve up to a maximum 
of three successive terms, unless an extended Board tenure is necessitated by the requirements of the 
Group. All contracts are renewed by the Board based on the recommendation of the Nominations 
Committee. In terms of the Articles of Association, one third of all the Executive and Non-Executive 
Directors, except for the Chairperson-CEO, are eligible for re-election at the annual general meeting by 
the shareholders. 
Annually, the Board discusses the possibility of any impairment of Director independence due to 
extended Board tenures, and collectively evaluates the re-election of such Board members. 
Given the need for a combined Chairperson-CEO role, the Chairperson does not come up for 
re-election as in the case with other Executive and Non-Executive Directors. It is noted that the 
Articles of Association of the Company allow for this.
3.1.8	 Board Meetings 
3.1.8.1 Regularity of Meetings and Pre-Board Meetings 
During the financial year under review, there were five Board meetings, which were scheduled well 
in advance to ensure full attendance. 
All pre-scheduled Board meetings are generally preceded by a Pre-Board meeting, which is usually 
held on the day prior to the formal Board Meeting. In addition to these Pre-Board meetings, the Board 
of Directors communicate, as appropriate, when issues of strategic importance requiring extensive 
discussions arise. 
The attendance at the Board meetings held during the financial year 2023/24 is given below:
Name  
Year of Appointment 
to the Board 
23/05/2023 
25/07/2023
04/09/2023
07/11/2023
31/01/2024 
Eligibility
Attended 
A Cabraal 
2013/14 





5 
5
S Coorey 
2022/23 


  
  

 5 
 5 
S Fernando* 
2023/24 
N/A 
N/A 



3 
3
N Fonseka 
2013/14 





5 
5
P Perera**
2014/15 

N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
1 
1 
H Wijayasuriya 
2016/17 





5
5
K Balendra 
2016/17 





5 
5 
G Cooray 
2016/17 





5 
5
*Appointed with effect from 9 August 2023.
**Retired on 1 July 2023.
3.1.8.2  Timely Supply of Information
The Directors were provided with necessary 
information, well in advance, by way of 
electronic Board papers and proposals, as 
relevant, for all Board meetings held during 
the year, in addition to the monthly and 
quarterly information submitted pertaining 
to the Group, in order to ensure robust 
discussion, informed deliberation and effective 
decision-making.  
The Directors continue to have access to, and 
independent contact with, the corporate and 
senior management of the Group. 
3.1.8.3  Board Agenda 
The Chairperson-CEO ensured that all Board 
proceedings were conducted smoothly and 
efficiently, approving the agenda for each 
meeting prepared by the Board Secretary. 
The typical Board agenda in 2023/24 entailed, 
discussion of matters arising from the previous 
minutes, submission of Board Sub-Committee 
reports, status updates of major projects and 
raising of capital, review of performance, 
strategy formulation, approval of quarterly 
and annual financial statements, review 
of risk, sustainability and corporate social 
responsibility related aspects, ratification of 
capital expenditure, ratification of Circular 
Resolutions and use of Common Seal, among 
others. Added emphasis was also placed on 
business performance in lieu of the challenges 
stemming from the macroeconomic volatilities 
and uncertainties. 
3.1.9	 Board Secretary 
The President Legal, Secretarial and Corporate 
Social Responsibility (CSR) of the Group, who 
is an Attorney-at-Law by profession and a 
registered company secretarial practitioner, 
is the Secretary to the Board. In addition to 
maintaining Board minutes and Board records, 
the Board Secretary provides support in 
ensuring that the Board receives timely and 
accurate information in addition to advice 
relating to corporate governance matters, 
Board procedures and applicable rules and 
regulations during the year. All concerns 
raised and wished to be recorded have been 
documented in sufficient detail. 

221
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
3.1.10	  Time Dedicated by Non-Executive 
Directors 
The Board has dedicated adequate time for 
the fulfilment of their duties as Directors of the 
Group. It is estimated that each Non-Executive 
Directors devoted ~30 full time equivalent 
days to the Group during the year. The general 
time allocation is illustrated below. 
50
35
15
(%)
Time Commitment
Strategy and performance
Assurance and risk management
Other board matters
In addition to attending Board meetings 
and Pre-Board meetings, the Directors have 
attended the respective Sub-Committee 
meetings and have also contributed to 
decision-making via Circular Resolutions and 
one-on-one meetings with Key Management 
Personnel, when necessary. 
3.1.11	Board Evaluation
The Board conducted its annual Board 
performance appraisal for the financial 
year 2023/24. This formalised process of 
individual appraisal enabled each member 
to self-appraise, on an anonymous basis, the 
performance of the Board under the areas of:
	y
Role clarity and effective discharge of 
responsibilities
	y
People mix, balance and structures
	y
Systems and procedures
	y
Quality of participation
	y
Board and corporate image and reputation 
The scoring and open comments are collated by the Senior Independent Director to ensure an 
independent evaluation process. The results are analysed to give the Board an indication of its 
effectiveness as well as areas that require addressing and/or strengthening. Despite the original 
anonymity of the remarks, the open and frank discussions that follow include some Directors 
identifying themselves as the person making the remark, reflecting the openness of the Board. 
This process has led to an improvement in the Board dynamics based on the evaluations and 
deliberations in the past, including the 2022/23 evaluation. More recent deliberations have centred 
around the completion of the large ticket investments of the Group, continuous enhancement on 
the approach to proactively managing identification of risks, particularly in relation to cybersecurity 
risks, business resilience and enterprise risk management, including holistic ESG-related policies.
3.1.12	  Ensuring Independence and Managing Conflicts of Interests
As at 21 May 2024, the Board comprised of seven Directors, with five of them being Independent Non-
Executive Directors, ensuring a strong element of independence on the Board. 
The Group takes necessary steps to ensure that Directors avoid situations in which they have, or 
could have, a direct or indirect interest which conflicts with, or might possibly conflict, with the 
interests of the Group.
In order to avoid such potential conflicts or biases, the Directors make a general disclosure of 
interests, as illustrated below, at appointment, at the beginning of every financial year, and 
during the year, as required. Such potential conflicts are reviewed by the Board from time to time 
to ensure the integrity of the Board's independence. The details of companies in which Board 
members hold Board or Board Committee membership are available with the Company Secretary 
for inspection by shareholders, on request.
	y
Nominees are requested to make known their various interests.
	y
Directors obtain Board clearance prior to:
•	 	Accepting a new position.
•	 	Engaging in any transaction that could create or potentially create a conflict of interest.
	y
All NEDs are required to notify the Chairperson-CEO of any changes to their current Board 
representations or interests and a new declaration is made annually.
	y
Directors who have an interest in a matter under discussion:
•	 	Excuse themselves from deliberations on the subject matter.
•	 Abstain from voting on the subject matter (abstention from decisions is duly minuted).
Prior to Appointment 
Once Appointed 
During Board Meetings 
The independence of all its Non-Executive Directors was reviewed on the basis of criteria 

222 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
summarised as follows. The Non-Executive Independent Directors did not have a conflict of interest, as per the criteria for independence outlined 
below.
Criteria for defining independence
Status of conformity of NEDs
1.	 Shareholding carrying not less than 10% of voting rights
None of the individual EDs' or NED/IDs' shareholdings exceed 1%. 
2.	 Director of another company*
None of the NED/IDs are Directors of another related party company. 
3.	 Income/non-cash benefit equivalent to 20% of the Director's annual income 
excluding income/non-cash benefits received which are applicable on a 
uniform basis to all non-executive Directors on the Board
NED/ID income/cash benefits are less than 20% of an individual 
Director's annual income. 
4.	 Employment at JKH and/or material business relationship with JKH, currently 
or in the three years immediately preceding appointment as a Director
None of the NED/IDs are employed or have been employed at JKH. 
5.	 Close family member is a Director, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) or a Key 
Management Personnel 
No family member of the EDs or NED/ IDs is a Director or CEO or a 
Key Management Personnel of a related party company.  
6.	 Has served on the Board continuously for a period exceeding nine years 
from the date of the first appointment
All NEDs, except Mr. A Cabraal and Mr. N Fonseka, satisfied these 
criteria for the year 2023/24. The Board determined that, although 
Mr. A Cabraal and Mr. N Fonseka did not satisfy the said criteria, they 
did, in the opinion of the Board, satisfy the other qualifying criteria 
in terms of independence. Having also considered all other factors, 
the Board is of the view that Mr. A Cabraal and Mr. N Fonseka are 
Independent.
7.	 Is employed, is a Director, has a material business relationship and/or 
significant shareholding in other companies*. Entails other companies 
that have significant shareholding in JKH and/or JKH has a business 
connection with
None of the NED/IDs are employed, are Directors, or have a material 
business relationship or a significant shareholding of another related 
party company as defined. 
* Other companies in which a majority of the other Directors of the listed company are employed or are Directors, or have a significant shareholding or have a material business 
relationship or where the core line of business of such company is in direct conflict with the line of business of the listed company.
3.1.12.1  Details in Respect of Directors 
The following table illustrates the total number of Board seats (excluding Group Board seats) held in other companies (outside the Group) by each 
Director.
Name of Director
No. of Board Seats Held in Other Listed 
Sri Lankan Companies
No. of Board Seats Held in Other Unlisted Sri Lankan Companies
Executive 
Capacity
Non-Executive Capacity
A Cabraal
-
	y Ceylon Beverage Holdings PLC
	y Lion Brewery (Ceylon) PLC
	y Sunshine Holdings PLC
	y Director of seven companies within the Sunshine Holdings Group
	y Director of four companies within the CIC Group (Chairman)
	y Silvermill Investment Holdings (Private) Limited (Chairman)
	y Moose Clothing Colombo (Private) Limited (Chairman)
S Coorey
-
	y Dialog Axiata PLC
-
S Fernando*
-
-
	y CEO of MAS Holdings (Private) Limited and Director of thirteen 
companies within the MAS Group
	y World Vision Lanka
N Fonseka
-
-
	y Brandix Lanka Limited
	y Phoenix Industries Limited (Chairman)
	y Phoenix Ventures Limited
P Perera** 
-
-
-
H Wijayasuriya
-
	y Dialog Axiata PLC
	y Director of three companies within the Axiata Group
	y Colours and Courage Trust (Guaranteed) Limited
	y Sri Lankan Airlines Limited (NED)
	y Sigiriya Leisure (Private) Limited
	y Sigiriya Residencies (Private) Limited
K Balendra 
-
-
-
G Cooray 
-
-
-
* Appointed to the Board with effect from 9 August 2023.
** Retired from the Board with effect from 1 July 2023.
Refer Board and Management Profiles for other appointments held in trade associations, regional and sectoral councils, regulatory bodies, among others. 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMENTARY

223
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Directors' Shareholding  
(John Keells Holdings PLC)
31 March 2024
31 March 2023
A Cabraal
250,137
250,137
S Coorey
-
-
S Fernando
-
N/A
N Fonseka
-
-
P Perera*
N/A
-
H Wijayasuriya
-
-
K Balendra**
10,914,400
10,914,400
G Cooray
208,587
208,587
* Retired from the Board with effect from 1 July 2023.
**Includes shareholding of spouse.
Executive Directors' 
Shareholding in Listed  
Group Companies*:
Number of Shares as at 
31 March 2024
K Balendra
G Cooray
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC
802,320
-
Asian Hotels and Properties PLC
-
10,600
Trans Asia Hotels PLC
-
1,200
*Includes shareholding of spouse.
3.1.13	  Director Remuneration 
3.1.13.1  Executive Director Remuneration 
The HRCC is responsible for determining the compensation of the 
Chairperson-CEO and the Deputy Chairperson/Group Finance Director, 
both Executive Directors of the Group. The HRCC operates in conformity 
with applicable rules and regulations. 
The HRCC is comprised solely of Independent, Non-Executive Directors 
and serves as an independent conduit for shareholder and other 
stakeholder interests. The members of the HRCC, as with all other 
Independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company, are appointed by 
the Board on the recommendations of the Nominations Committee and 
are put forward for re-election by the shareholders at the Annual General 
Meeting convened following their appointment.
Refer the Human Resources and Compensation Committee section of this 
report for further details - page 226
A significant proportion of Executive Director remuneration is variable. 
The variability is linked to the peer-adjusted consolidated Group 
bottom line and expected returns on shareholder funds. In determining 
remuneration, other ESG considerations, including non-financial key 
performance indicators (KPIs), are also given due prominence. Further, 
the Human Resources and Compensation Committee consults the 
Chairperson-CEO about any proposals relating to the Executive Director 
remuneration, other than that of the Chairperson-CEO. 
During the year, employee share options (ESOPs), valued using a 
binomial pricing model, were granted to the Executive Directors as well 
as to all other eligible employees. 
Further details are found in the Notes to the Financial Statements section and 
Share Information section of this Annual Report. 
Options available to Executive Directors under Employee Share Options 
Scheme:
Year of 
expiry
K Balendra
G Cooray
Granted 
shares 
(Adjusted)
Immediately 
vesting
To be vested
Granted 
shares 
(Adjusted)
Immediately 
vesting
To be vested
2024/25
450,000
450,000 
-  
430,000 
430,000 
-  
2025/26
450,000 
337,500 
112,500 
430,000 
322,500 
107,500 
2026/27
450,000 
225,000 
225,000 
430,000 
215,000 
215,000 
2027/28
450,000 
112,500 
337,500 
412,000 
103,000 
309,000 
2028/29
360,000 
-  
360,000 
329,600 
-  
329,600 
Total
2,160,000 1,125,000 1,035,000 2,031,600 1,070,500 
961,100
Excluding ESOPs granted, the total aggregate remuneration paid 
to Executive Directors for the year under review was Rs.263 million 
[2022/23: Rs.196 million] of which Rs.92 million [2022/23: Rs.54 million] 
was the variable portion linked to the performance benchmark as 
described above and Rs.171 million [2022/23: Rs.142 million] was the 
fixed remuneration. 
3.1.13.2  Non-Executive Director Remuneration 
The compensation of Non-Executive Directors was determined in 
reference to fees paid to other Non-Executive Directors of comparable 
companies, and adjusted, where necessary, in keeping with the 
complexity of the Group. Non-Executive Directors were paid additional 
fees for either chairing or being a member of a Sub-Committee and did 
not receive any performance/incentive payments/share option plans. 
The total aggregate of Non-Executive Director remuneration for the year 
was Rs.26 million [2022/23: Rs.20 million]. 
3.1.13.3  Compensation for Early Termination 
In the event of an early termination of a Director, there are no 
compensation commitments other than for: 
i. 	 Executive Directors: as per their employment contract similar to any 
other employee. 
ii. 	 Non-Executive Directors: accrued fees payable, if any, as per the terms 
of their contract. 

224 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMENTARY
3.2.1	 Audit Committee
Composition
	y
All members are Non-Executive Independent Directors, with 
at least one member having significant, recent and relevant 
financial management and accounting experience, and 
membership in a recognised professional accounting body.
	y
The Chairperson-CEO and the Group Finance Director are 
permanent invitees for all Committee meetings. The Group 
Financial Controller is also present at discussions relating to 
Group reporting.
	y
The Head of the Group Business Process Review division is the 
Secretary of the Committee.
Scope
	y
Overseeing the preparation, presentation and review of the 
quarterly and annual financial statements, including the 
quality, transparency, integrity, accuracy and compliance with 
accounting standards, laws and regulations, prior to tabling the 
same for the approval of the Board of Directors.
	y
Obtain and review assurance received from the CEO, Group 
Finance Director and other Key Management Personnel, 
as relevant that the financial records have been properly 
maintained and the financial statements give a true and fair 
view of the Company's and Group's operations and finances.
	y
Evaluate the competence and effectiveness of the risk 
management systems and internal controls of the Group 
and ensure robustness and effectiveness in monitoring and 
controlling risks, as recommended by the internal auditors.
	y
Review the adequacy and effectiveness of internal and external 
audit arrangements.
	y
Review the risk policies adopted by the Company on an annual 
basis.
	y
Recommend the appointment, re-appointment and removal of 
the External Auditors including their remuneration and terms 
of engagement by assessing qualifications, expertise, resources 
and independence.
3.2.1.1  Report of the Audit Committee
The role of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in fulfilling its 
oversight responsibilities in relation to the integrity of the financial 
statements of the Company and the Group, the internal control and 
risk management framework and systems of the Group, compliance 
with legal and regulatory requirements, the External Auditors' 
suitability, performance, and independence, and, the adequacy and 
performance of the Internal Audit function undertaken by the Group 
Business Process Review division (Group BPR). The scope of functions 
and responsibilities are adequately set out in the terms of reference 
of the Committee which has been approved by the Board and is 
reviewed annually. 
The Committee's responsibilities pertain to the Group as a whole 
and in discharging its responsibilities, the Committee places reliance 
on the work of other Audit Committees in the Group without 
3.2	
Board Sub-Committees 
Whilst retaining final decision rights, the Board has delegated certain 
functions to Board Sub-Committees. Members of these Sub-Committees 
focus on their designated areas of responsibility and impart knowledge and 
oversight in areas where they have greater expertise. 
The five Board Sub-Committees are as follows:
i.	 Audit Committee
ii.	 Human Resources and Compensation Committee
iii.	 Nominations Committee
iv.	 Related Party Transactions Review Committee
v.	 Project Risk Assessment Committee
Out of the five Board Sub-Committees, four are mandatory, whist the 
Project Risk Assessment Committee was formed voluntarily, considering 
the diverse nature of businesses within the Group. 
Important matters arising from the Board Sub-Committee meetings 
are deliberated at the Board meetings, and any concerns identified are 
referred to the Board for oversight. 
The Board Sub-Committees comprise predominantly of Independent 
Non-Executive Directors. 
The membership of the five Board Sub-Committees is as follows;
Board Sub-
Committee 
membership  
as at 21 May 2024
Audit Committee
Human Resources 
and Compensation 
Committee
Nominations 
Committee
Related Party 
Transactions Review 
Committee
Project Risk 
Assessment Committee
Senior Independent Non-Executive
N Fonseka
Independent Non-Executive
A Cabraal
S Coorey
S Fernando
H Wijayasuriya
Executive
K Balendra – 
Chairperson-CEO
G Cooray –  
Deputy Chairperson/ 
Group Finance Director
  Committee Member 
 
  Committee Chair

225
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
prejudicing the independence of those Committees. However, to 
the extent, and in a manner, it considers appropriate, the Committee 
provides feedback to those entities for their consideration and necessary 
action. 
The effectiveness of the Committee is evaluated annually by each 
member of the Committee and the results are communicated to the 
Board.
Composition of the Committee and Meetings
The Audit Committee comprises the undersigned and the following 
Independent Non-Executive Directors:
A Cabraal
P Perera
S Fernando – appointed with effect from 9 August 2023
P Perera – retired from the Audit Committee with effect from 
1 July 2023
S Coorey – was appointed to the Audit Committee with effect from 
1 July 2023 and resigned with effect from 8 November 2023
The Head of the Group BPR division served as the Secretary to the Audit 
Committee.
The Audit Committee met five times during the financial year. Information 
on the attendance at these meetings by the members of the Committee 
is given in the ensuing section. The Chairperson/CEO, the Deputy 
Chairperson/Group Finance Director, Group Financial Controller and the 
External Auditors attended most parts of these meetings by invitation. 
The Internal Auditors carried out outsourced assignments and relevant 
executives of the Company and the Group also attended these meetings 
when needed. The Committee engaged with management to review 
key risks faced by the Group as a whole and the main sectors with a view 
to obtaining assurances that appropriate and effective risk mitigation 
strategies were in place.
The activities and views of the Committee were communicated to the 
Board of Directors quarterly through verbal briefings by the Chairman 
of the Committee, and by tabling the minutes of the Committee's 
meetings.
 Financial Reporting
The Audit Committee has reviewed and discussed the Group's 
quarterly financial statements and the annual statements with the 
Management. The External Auditors were engaged to conduct a 
limited review of the Group's interim financial statements for the six 
months ended 30 September 2023. The results of this review were 
discussed with the External Auditors prior to publication of these 
statements. The scope of the review included ascertaining compliance 
of the statements and disclosures with the Sri Lanka Accounting 
Standards, the appropriateness and changes in accounting policies 
and material judgemental matters. Discussions were also held with the 
External Auditors and Management on matters communicated to the 
Committee by the External Auditors in their reports to the Committee 
on the audit for the year.
The Committee obtained independent input from the External Auditors 
on the effects of any new Sri Lanka Accounting Standards that came 
into effect for the year under review and satisfied themselves that the 
necessary preparatory work was carried out, to enable the Company to 
comply with these new standards.
Internal Audit, Risks and Controls
The Committee reviewed the adequacy of the Internal Audit coverage 
for the Group and the Internal Audit Plans for the Group with the Head 
of the Group BPR division and the Management. The Internal Audit 
function of most Group companies is outsourced to leading professional 
firms under the direction and control of the Group BPR division.
The Group BPR division regularly reported to the Committee on the 
adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls in the Group and 
compliance with laws and regulations and established policies and 
procedures of the Group. Reports from outsourced Internal Auditors on 
the operations of the Company and some of the unlisted subsidiaries of 
the Company were also reviewed by the Committee. Follow-up action 
was taken on the recommendations of the outsourced Internal Auditors 
and any other significant follow-up matters were documented and 
presented to the Committee on a quarterly basis by the Head of Group 
BPR. The Committee also reviewed the effectiveness of digital forensic 
tools used by Group BPR.
The Sustainability and Enterprise Risk Management division reported to the 
Committee on the process of identification, evaluation and management 
of all significant risks faced by the Group. The report covered the overall risk 
profile of the Group for the year under review in comparison with that of 
the previous year, and the most significant risks from a Group perspective 
together with mitigatory action. The Group functions in an environment 
where not all risks can be completely eliminated and in this context the 
Committee reviews remedial measures taken to manage risks that do 
materialise and the level of residual risk.
Formal confirmations and assurances were obtained from the senior 
management of Group companies on a quarterly basis regarding the 
efficacy and status of the internal control systems and risk management 
systems and compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
The Committee reviewed the whistleblowing arrangements for the 
Group and had direct access to the Ombudsperson for the Group. The 
effectiveness and resource requirements of the Group BPR division were 
reviewed and discussed with management and changes were affected 
where considered necessary.
External Audit
The External Auditors' Letter of Engagement, including the scope of the 
audit, was reviewed and discussed by the Committee with the External 
Auditors and management prior to the commencement of the audit.
The External Auditors kept the Committee advised on an on-going basis 
regarding matters of significance that were pending resolution. Before the 
conclusion of the Audit, the Committee met with the External Auditors 
and management to discuss all audit issues and to agree on actions. This 
included the discussion of formal reports from the External Auditors to 
the Committee. The Committee also met the External Auditors, without 
management being present, prior to the finalisation of the financial 
statements to obtain their input on specific issues and to ascertain whether 
they had any areas of concern relating to their work. No matters other than 
those already discussed with management and resolved were raised by the 
External Auditors. 
The External Auditors' final management reports on the audit of the 
Company and the Company and Group financial statements for the year 
2023/24 were discussed with the Management and the Auditors.

226 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMENTARY
3.2.1.2 Audit Committee meeting attendance
No. of meetings – Five
Eligible to 
Attend
Attended
Date of 
Appointment
A Cabraal
5
5
07/11/2013
S Coorey*
2
2
01/07/2023
S. Fernando**
2
2
09/08/2023
N Fonseka 
5
5
07/11/2013
P Perera***
2
2
24/07/2014
By Invitation
 
 
K Balendra
5
5
G Cooray
5
4
* Appointed with effect from 1 July and resigned with effect from 8 November 2023.
** Appointed with effect from 9 August 2023.
*** Retired with effect from 1 July 2023.
Note: The Committee convened at least once every quarter.
3.2.2	 Human Resources and Compensation Committee
Composition
	y
The Committee comprises exclusively of Independent Non-
Executive Directors.
	y
The Chairperson of the Committee must be an Independent 
Non-Executive Director.
	y
The Chairperson-CEO and Group Finance Director are invited 
to all Committee meetings unless the Chairperson-CEO 
or Executive Director remuneration is under discussion, 
respectively.
	y
The Deputy Chairperson/Group Finance Director is the Secretary 
of the Committee.
Scope
	y
Review and recommend overall remuneration philosophy, 
strategy, policies and practice and performance-based pay plans 
for the Group.
	y
Determine and agree with the Board a framework for the 
remuneration of the Chairperson-CEO and Executive Directors 
based on performance targets, benchmark principles, 
performance related pay schemes, industry trends and past 
remuneration.
	y
Succession planning and talent management of Key 
Management Personnel.
	y
Ensure the integrity of the Group's compensation and benefits 
programme is maintained.
	y
Commission compensation and benefit surveys as appropriate 
to assist the Committee in its deliberations.
	y
In performing these functions, to ensure that stakeholder 
interest are aligned and that the Group is able to attract, 
motivate and retain talent. 
	y
At its discretion, the Committee may invite external specialists to 
provide advice and information on relevant remuneration and 
Human Resource development practices.
	y
Determining compensation of Non-Executive Directors is not 
under the scope of this Committee.
The Committee is satisfied that the independence of the External 
Auditors has not been impaired by any event or service that gives 
rise to a conflict of interest. Due consideration has been given to the 
nature of the services provided by the Auditors and the level of audit 
and non-audit fees received by the Auditors from the John Keells 
Group and pre clearance was given for these services. The Committee 
also reviewed the arrangements made by the Auditors to maintain 
their independence and confirmation has been received from the 
Auditors of their compliance with the independence guidance given 
in the Code of Ethics of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri 
Lanka. 
The performance of the External Auditors has been evaluated with the 
aid of a formal assessment process with input provided by the senior 
management of the Company. Based on the performance assessment, 
the Committee has recommended to the Board that Ernst & Young 
be re-appointed as the Lead/Consolidation Auditor of the Group for 
the financial year ending 31 March 2025, subject to approval by the 
Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting. 
N Fonseka
Chairperson of the Audit Committee 
21 May 2024
3.2.2.2 Human Resources and Compensation Committee meeting 
attendance
No. of meetings – One
Eligible to 
Attend
Attended
Date of 
Appointment
A Cabraal
1
1
29/01/2015
H Wijayasuriya
1
1
05/11/2016
By Invitation
 
 
S Coorey              
1
0
N Fonseka
1
1
K Balendra
1
1
G Cooray
1
1

227
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
3.2.2.1  Report of the Human Resources and 
Compensation Committee
The Human Resource and Compensation Committee forms 
a key part of the governance framework of the Group and 
carries the mandate to oversee the compensation and benefits 
policies adopted by the Group, and in doing so, review and 
recommend overall remuneration philosophy, strategy, policies 
and practices and performance-based pay plans. Furthermore, 
it reviews performance, compensation and benefits of the CEO, 
the other Executive Directors, and key executives who support 
and implement decisions at an apex level, the overall business 
strategy and make recommendations, thereon to the Board. The 
Committee also reviews and monitors the performance of the 
Group's top talent for the purposes of organisational growth and 
succession planning, with particular emphasis on succession at key 
executive levels. 
In performing this role, the Committee is conscious of the need to 
ensure that stakeholder interests are aligned, and the Group is able to 
attract, motivate, retain talent and ensure their loyalty; the integrity 
of the Group's compensation and benefits programme is maintained 
and importantly, that the compensation policy and schemes are 
compliant with applicable laws and regulations. 
In this context, the Committee determined the remuneration of 
the Executive Directors including the Chairperson-CEO in terms of 
the methodology set out by the Board, upon an evaluation of their 
performance by the Non-Executive Directors. The evaluation of 
the members of the Group Executive Committee was considered 
by the Committee and remuneration was determined based 
on performance, market comparators for similar positions and 
in accordance with the Company's Compensation and Benefits 
policy. 
As per the mandate outlined, the report from the Chairperson of 
the Human Resources and Compensation Committee continues 
to be a standing agenda item at the quarterly Board meetings. The 
Chairperson of the Committee reports on the developments which 
have taken place since the last Board meeting, if any, and updates 
the Board on various matters, as relevant and requested. 
The Committee wishes to report that the Company has complied 
with the Companies Act in relation to remuneration of Directors. 
The annual performance appraisal scheme, the calculation of 
short-term incentives, and the award of ESOPs were executed 
in accordance with the approvals given by the Board, based 
on discussions conducted between the Committee and the 
Management. 
A Cabraal 
Chairperson of the Human Resources and Compensation 
Committee 
20 May 2024 
3.2.3	 Nominations Committee
Composition
	y
Majority of the members of the Committee shall be Non-
Executive Directors together with the Chairperson-CEO. 
	y
The Chairperson of the Committee must be an Independent 
Non-Executive Director. 
	y
The Secretary to the Board is the Secretary of the Committee. 
Scope
	y
Assess the skills required on the Board given the needs of the 
businesses. 
	y
From time to time assess the extent to which the required skills 
are represented at the Board. 
	y
Prepare a clear description of the role and capabilities required 
for a particular appointment. 
	y
Identify and recommend suitable candidates for appointments 
to the Board. 
	y
Ensure, on appointment to the Board, Non-Executive Directors 
receive a formal letter of appointment specifying clear 
expectations in terms of time commitment, involvement 
outside of the formal Board meetings and participation in 
Committees, amongst others. 
	y
Ensure that every appointee undergoes an induction to the 
Group. 
	y
The appointment of the Chairperson-CEO and Executive 
Directors is a collective decision of the Board. 

228 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMENTARY
3.2.3.1  Report of the Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee as at 31 March 2024, consisted 
of the following members: 
A Cabraal (Chairperson)  
K Balendra 
H Wijayasuriya 
S Coorey (appointed w.e.f 8 November 2023)
*Note: P Perera resigned as a member of the Nominations Committee 
consequent to her resignation from the Board on 1 July 2023. 
The Nominations Committee reaffirmed its mandate to: 
	y
Recommend to the Board the process of selecting the 
Chairperson and Deputy Chairperson. 
	y
Assess the skills required for each business, based on the 
strategic demands to be met by JKH and other listed 
companies of the Group. 
	y
Identify suitable persons to be appointed as Non-Executive 
Directors to the Board of JKH and make recommendations 
to other listed companies in the Group, taking into 
consideration qualifying criteria stipulated under 
applicable laws and rules. 
	y
Review the structure, size, composition and skills of each 
Board. 
	y
Ensure that every appointee undergoes an induction. 
	y
Make recommendations on matters referred to it by the 
Board. 
During the reporting period, the following appointments were 
made consequent to the recommendation of the Committee: 
John Keells Holdings PLC 
	y
D V R S Fernando (new appointment) 
Tea Smallholder Factories PLC 
	y
A S Jayatilleke (renewal) 
	y
A Goonethileke (renewal)
Trans Asia Hotels PLC 
	y
N L Gooneratne (renewal) 
Union Assurance PLC
	y
P T Wanigasekara (new appointment)
	y
D H Fernando (renewal)
The Committee reports its activities at each Board Meeting. 
The Committee continues to work with the Board on 
reviewing its skills mix, based on the immediate and emerging 
needs of the Group. Further, the Committee discusses with the 
Board the outputs of the annual JKH Board evaluation. 
A Cabraal 
Chairperson of the Nominations Committee 
20 May 2024
3.2.3.2 Nominations Committee meeting attendance
No. of meetings – Three
Eligible to 
Attend
Attended
Date of 
Appointment
A Cabraal
3
3
07/11/2013
S Coorey 
1
1
08/11/2023
P Perera*
1
1
24/07/2014
H Wijayasuriya
3
3
05/11/2016
K Balendra
3
3
01/01/2019
* Retired with effect from on 1 July 2023.
3.2.4	 Related Party Transactions Review Committee 
Composition
	y
The Chairperson shall be an Independent Non-Executive Director.
	y
Members of the Committee should be a combination of Non-
Executive Directors and Independent Non-Executive Directors.
	y
The composition may include Executive Directors at the option of the 
Listed Entity. 
Scope
	y
The Group has broadened the scope of the Committee to include 
senior decision makers in the list of Key Management Personnel, 
whose transactions with Group companies also get reviewed by the 
Committee, in addition to the requisitions of the CSE. 
	y
All proposed Related Party Transactions shall be reviewed in advance 
and in the event of any material changes, such changes shall also be 
reviewed by the Related Party Transactions Review Committee prior 
to the completion of the transaction.
	y
Develop and recommend for adoption by the Board of Directors 
of JKH and its listed subsidiaries, a Related Party Transaction Policy 
which is consistent with the operating model and the delegated 
decision rights of the Group.
	y
Update the Board on Related Party Transactions of each of the listed 
companies of the Group on a quarterly basis and formally requesting 
the Board to approve the related party transactions following the 
determination of whether such approval is needed.
	y
Define and establish the threshold values for each of the subject listed 
companies in setting a benchmark for Related Party Transactions, 
Related Party Transactions which have to be pre-approved by the 
Board, Related Party Transactions which require to be reviewed 
annually, such as recurrent Related Party Transactions and similar issues 
relating to listed companies.
	y
Ensure that they have or have access to expertise to assess all aspects 
of proposed Related Party Transactions, and where necessary, obtain 
expert advice from an appropriately qualified person.
	y
Where a Director has personal material interest in a matter being 
reviewed by the Committee, such Director shall not be present in the 
meeting and shall not vote in the matter, except at the request of the 
Committee.
	y
Where both the parent company and the subsidiary are Listed 
Entities, Related Party Transactions Review Committee of the parent 
company shall function as the Related Party Transactions Review 
Committee of the subsidiary.

229
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
3.2.4.1  Report of the Related Party Transactions Review Committee
Composition
The following Directors served as members of the Committee 
during the financial year: 
N Fonseka 
A Cabraal
S Fernando
P Perera – former Chairperson retired from the RPT committee with 
effect from 1 July 2023 
S Coorey – appointed to the RPT committee with effect from 1 July 
2023 and resigned with effect from 8 November 2023.
The Chairperson-CEO, Deputy Chairperson/Group Finance Director, 
and Group Financial Controller attended meetings by invitation. 
The Head of Group Business Process Review served as the Secretary 
to the Committee. The Committee held four meetings during the 
financial year, which were held on a quarterly basis. Information 
on the attendance at these meetings by the members of the 
Committee is given alongside. Urgent transactions that required 
prior approval of the Committee were dealt with by circulation 
among the members.
Objective and Governing Policies 
The objective of the Committee is to exercise oversight on behalf of the 
Board of John Keells Holdings PLC and its listed Subsidiaries, to ensure 
compliance with all applicable rules and regulations, namely the Code 
on Related Party Transactions, as issued by the Securities and Exchange 
Commission of Sri Lanka ('The Code') and the Listing Rules of the 
Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE). The Committee has also adopted best 
practices as recommended by the Institute of Chartered Accountants 
of Sri Lanka and ensures that transactions are in line with the Groups' 
internal governance framework and associated policies.
Procedure
The Committee in discharging its functions primarily relied on 
processes that were validated from time to time and periodic 
reporting by the relevant entities and Key Management Personnel 
(KMP) with a view to ensuring that: 
	y
there is compliance with 'The Code' and the Listing Rules of the 
CSE; 
	y
shareholder interests are protected, and; 
	y
fairness and transparency are maintained. 
Non-recurrent Related Party Transactions (RPTs) of listed entities:
The Committee advocated the Management to implement 
appropriate procedures to ensure that all non-recurrent RPTs of the 
Group's listed entities are submitted to the Committee, for pre-
approval. Accordingly, the Committee reviewed and pre-approved 
all proposed non-recurrent Related Party Transactions (RPTs) of 
the parent, John Keells Holdings PLC, and all its listed subsidiaries, 
namely: Asian Hotels and Properties PLC, Ceylon Cold Stores PLC, 
John Keells PLC, John Keells Hotels PLC, Keells Food Products PLC, 
Tea Smallholder Factories PLC, Trans Asia Hotels PLC and Union 
Assurance PLC. 
Recurrent RPTs of listed entities:
The Committee has endorsed guidelines to facilitate disclosures 
and assurances to be provided by the senior management of listed 
entities in the Group so as to validate compliance with section 
9.5(a) of the Listing Rules and thus exclusion from the mandate for 
review and pre-approval of such transactions by the Committee. 
Accordingly recurrent RPTs as well as the aforesaid disclosures and 
assurances were reviewed annually by the Committee. 
Other significant transactions of non-listed subsidiaries: 
Material transactions of non-listed subsidiaries in the Group were 
presented to the Committee for information.  
The Group continued to adopt a broader scope in defining key 
management personnel including therein all senior decision makers. 
Accordingly, in addition to the Directors, all Presidents, Executive 
Vice Presidents, Chief Executive Officers, Chief Financial Officers and 
Financial Controllers of respective companies/sectors have been 
designated as KMPs in order to increase transparency and enhance 
good governance. Annual disclosures from all KMPs setting out any 
RPTs they were associated with, if any, were obtained and reviewed by 
the Committee. 
The activities and views of the Committee have been 
communicated to the Board of Directors, quarterly, through verbal 
briefings, and by tabling the minutes of the Committee's meetings. 
N Fonseka  
Chairperson of the Related Party Transactions Review Committee 
20 May 2024
3.2.4.2 Related Party Transactions Review Committee meeting 
attendance 
No. of meetings – Four
Eligible to 
Attend
Attended
Date of 
Appointment
A Cabraal 
4
4
29/01/2014
S Coorey*
2
2
01/07/2023
S Fernando**
1
1
08/11/2023
N Fonseka
4
4
29/01/2014
P Perera***
1
1
24/07/2014
By Invitation
 
 
K Balendra
4
4
G Cooray
4
3
* Appointed with effect from 1 July and resigned with effect from 8 November 2023.
**Attended by invitation on 6 November 2023. Appointed with effect from 
8 November 2023.
*** Retired with effect from 1 July 2023.
Note: The Committee convened at least once every quarter. 

230 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMENTARY
3.2.5	 Project Risk Assessment Committee
Composition
	y
Should comprise of a minimum of four Directors. 
	y
Must include the Chairperson-CEO and Deputy Chairperson/
Group Finance Director. 
	y
Must include two Non-Executive Directors. 
	y
The Chairperson of the Committee must be a Non-Executive 
Director. 
Scope
	y
Review and assess risks associated with large-scale investments 
and the mitigatory plans thereto, if mitigation is possible, and 
identify risks that cannot be mitigated. 
	y
Ensure stakeholder interests are aligned, as applicable, in making 
this investment decision. 
	y
Where appropriate, obtain specialised expertise from external 
sources to evaluate risks, in consultation with the Group Finance 
Director. 
	y
Recommend to the Board, necessary action required, to mitigate 
risks that are identified in the course of evaluating a project in 
order to ensure that those risks are captured by the Group Risk 
Matrix for monitoring and mitigation. 
	y
The Committee shall convene only when there is a need to 
transact in business as per the terms of its mandate.
The following Directors served as members of the Committee during 
the financial year:
H Wijayasuriya (Chairperson) 
K Balendra 
G Cooray 
The Project Risk Assessment Committee was established with the 
purpose of further augmenting the Group's Investment Evaluation 
Framework. The Committee provides the Board with enhanced 
illumination of risk perspectives with respect to large scale new 
investments, and also assists the Board in assessing the potential 
impact of risks associated with such investments. Investments 
which are referred to the Committee are those which exceed a 
board-agreed threshold in terms of quantum of investment and/or 
potential impact to the Group. The Committee accordingly provides 
early-stage recommendations to the Board with respect to the 
extent of risk and adequacy of mitigation strategies.
During the year under review, the context of Project Risk 
Assessment was centred on (i) The extenuating impact of Sri 
Lanka's macroeconomic crisis on Group businesses and (ii) The two 
landmark investment projects - 'City of Dreams Sri Lanka' (formerly 
known as the 'Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort') and the West 
Container Terminal. Given the scale and impact of the risks and 
opportunities associated with the said subjects, the committee and 
board were of the view that related deliberations should take place 
with participation of the full Board as regular board agenda items.
While there were no specific new investments during the year which 
required Board Approval as per the Group's financial thresholds, new 
ventures such as the partnership with the Reliance Group on the 
marketing and distribution of Beverages in the Indian market, the 
entry into the partnership with BYD on New Energy Vehicles and the 
launch of the 'VIMAN' project were a some of the key projects which 
were also discussed at Board level.
H Wijayasuriya 
Chairperson of the Project Risk Assessment Committee 
20 May 2024
No of meetings – The committee did not convene during the year
3.2.5.1  Report of the Project Risk Assessment Committee
No of meetings – The committee did not convene during the year
Date of 
Appointment
P Perera*
25/05/2018
H Wijayasuriya
25/05/2018
K Balendra
25/05/2018
G Cooray
25/05/2018
*Retired with effect from 1 July 2023.

231
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
	y
Over the past five to ten years, some companies in certain geographies 
have moved toward separating the Chairperson and CEO roles, as it 
is believed, in theory, that an Independent Chairperson improves the 
ability of the Board of Directors to oversee management. 
	y
However, more recently, empirical research has suggested that 
combining the roles is likely to yield better performance of the 
company, and that the independence status of the Chairperson is not 
a material indicator of firm performance or governance quality [Liu, R 
(2019), Mubeen, R. et al. (2021)].
	y
The intended objective of achieving improved governance and 
higher independence can be better achieved via a focus on certain 
complementary actions, which have proven to be an effective 
assurance mechanism to the role of a combined Chairperson-CEO. If 
the same objective can be achieved under the guidance of a combined 
Chairperson-CEO, the introduction of a segregated role should 
not compromise the underlying operating model of a corporate, 
including that of JKH – particularly if there is no proven effectiveness in 
segregation. Such 'checks and balances' entail:
(i)	 Establishing a strong independent governance element via assurance 
mechanisms, such as: 
•	 	Presence of a Senior Independent Director who will act as the 
independent party to whom concerns could be voiced on a 
confidential basis and ensure that matters discussed at the 
Board level are done so in an environment which facilitates 
independent thought by individual Directors.
•	 A Nominations Committee that ensures the nomination of  
Non-Executives who are truly independent.
•	 	The presence of a Board which comprises of a majority 
Independent Directors.
•	 	Presence of an Ombudsperson. 
(ii)	 Use of systematic, comprehensive Board and CEO/Chair evaluations. 
(iii)	Ensuring active involvement of the Board in CEO succession and 
strategy formulation.
3.3	
Combined Chairperson-CEO Role
The Group's Chairperson continued to play the role of the CEO, 
in addition to the role of Chairperson. The appropriateness of 
combining the two roles is discussed in detail in the ensuing section. 
3.3.1	 Appropriateness of Combining the Roles of 
Chairperson and CEO 
The appropriateness in combining the roles of the Chairperson-
CEO was established after evaluation and debate, internally and 
externally. The appropriateness of continuing with the combined 
role is revisited and rigorously evaluated periodically - the Board 
continues to maintain its position that the combination of the two 
roles is more appropriate for the Group in meeting stakeholder 
objectives in a large, diversified conglomerate setting. This view 
takes into consideration not only the diversity of the industries the 
Group engages in but also the macroeconomic conditions which 
requires the leadership to be nimble and agile. These discussions 
are supported by international best practice accessed through 
consultancy services and experts.
Experience has proven that the JKH Board composition of a majority of 
independent Directors coupled with the role of the Senior Independent 
Director, and other supporting Board dynamics, has enabled the Chairperson-
CEO to effectively balance the dual role as the Chairperson of the Board and 
the CEO of the Company/Group.
Given the need for a combined Chairperson-CEO role, the Chairperson does not 
come up for re-election as in the case with other Executive and Non-Executive 
Directors. It is noted that the Articles of Association of the Company allow for this.
3.3.2	 Chairperson-CEO Appraisal
The Human Resources and Compensation Committee, appraised the performance 
of the Chairperson-CEO on the basis of pre-agreed goals for the Group, set in 
consultation with the Board. These goals cover the ensuing broad aspects and is 
also based on the Group's performance assessed against the goal and peers which 
involve other listed companies on the CSE:
	y
Creating and adding shareholder value 
	y
Success in identifying and implementing projects 
	y
Sustaining a first-class image
	y
Developing human capital 
	y
Promoting collaboration and team spirit 
	y
Building sustainable external relations 
	y
Leveraging Board members and other stakeholders 
	y
Ensuring good governance and integrity in the Group
In terms of Section 9.6.2, the Chairperson of the Company 
is an Executive Director, and the Chairperson and Chief 
Executive Officer ('CEO') positions of the Company are held by 
the same individual. Since the Company already has in place 
the role of a Senior Independent Director, the Company is 
compliant under the alternative option under Section 9.6.1 
and Section 9.6.3 of the CSE Listing Rules.
The role of a Senior Independent Director has been in place 
for over a decade at JKH. It is the view of the Board, and the 
Group's experience has proven that the JKH Board composition 
of a majority of Non-Executive Independent Directors, coupled 
with the role of the Senior Independent Director, and other 
supporting Board dynamics have enabled the Chairperson-
CEO to effectively balance the dual role as the Chairperson of 
the Board and the CEO of the Company, particularly given the 
diversified conglomerate structure of the Group.
Market disclosure made under Section 9.6.2 of the 
Listing Rules of the CSE
Purpose as Chairperson: 
	y
To provide leadership to the Board whilst inculcating good 
governance and ensuring effectiveness of the Board.
	y
Ensure constructive working relations are maintained between 
the Executive and Non-Executive members of the Board.
	y
Ensure, with the assistance of the Board Secretary, that:
•	 Board procedures are followed.
•	 Information is disseminated in a timely manner to the Board.
Purpose as CEO: 
	y
Execute strategies and policies of the Board.
	y
Ensure the efficient management of all businesses. 
	y
Guide and supervise Executive Directors towards striking a 
balance between their Board and Executive responsibilities.
	y
Ensure the operating model of the Group is aligned with short 
and long-term strategies of the Group.
	y
Ensure succession at the very senior levels is planned.

232 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMENTARY
3.3.3	 Direct Discussions with the  
Non-Executive Directors
The Chairperson-CEO conducts direct 
discussions with Non-Executive Directors at 
meetings held exclusively for Non-Executive 
Directors, which are convened by the Senior 
Independent Director. Issues arising from these 
discussions are actioned in consultation with 
the relevant persons. During the year under 
review, the Non-Executive Directors met thrice 
without the presence of the Executive Directors.
3.4	
Group Executive Committee and 
Other Management Committees
The Group Executive Committee and the 
other Management Committees met regularly 
as per a timetable communicated to the 
participants six months in advance. In the 
absence of a compelling reason, attendance at 
these Committee meetings is mandatory for 
the Committee members. All the Committees 
carried out specific tasks entrusted to each 
component, as expected.
Whilst the Chairperson-CEO and Presidents are 
ultimately accountable for the Company/Group 
and the industry groups/sectors/business 
functions respectively, all decisions are taken on 
a Committee structure as described below.
3.4.1	 Group Executive Committee (GEC)
As at 21 May 2024, the eight-member GEC 
consisted of the Chairperson-CEO, the Deputy 
Chairperson/Group Finance Director and the 
Presidents of each business/function. The 
GEC is the overlay structure that implements, 
under the leadership and direction of the 
Chairperson-CEO, the strategies and policies 
determined by the Board, manages through 
delegation and empowerment, the business 
and affairs of the Group, makes portfolio 
decisions and prioritises the allocation of all 
forms of capital. 
A key responsibility of the members of the 
GEC is to act as the enablers of the operating 
model of the Group. The members of the GEC 
are well equipped to execute these tasks and 
bring in a wealth of experience and diversity 
to the Group in terms of their expertise and 
exposure. 
Refer Board and Management Profiles for  
more details - page 209
The GEC meets twice a month, in addition 
to the meetings that are scheduled as 
necessitated by the requirements of the 
Group. 
3.4.2	 Group Operating Committee (GOC) 
As at 21 May 2024, the twenty-member GOC consisted of the Chairperson-CEO, the Deputy 
Chairperson/Group Finance Director, the Presidents and the Executive Vice Presidents in charge 
of sectors and the finance functions of the industry groups and Executive Vice Presidents who are 
functional heads at Centre Functions. The GOC provided a forum to share learnings, and identify 
synergies, across industry groups, sectors, business units and functions. 
The GOC meets once a month during the year and is instrumental in preserving a common group 
identity across diverse business units. 
Refer Board and Management Profiles for more details - page 210
3.4.3	 Other Management Committees 
These include the Group Management Committee, Sector Committee and Management 
Committee which are responsible at the industry group level, sector level and business unit level 
respectively. The underlying intention of forming these Committees is to encourage the respective 
business units to take responsibility and accountability at the grass-root level via suitably 
structured Committees and teams by objective setting. 
The agendas of these Committees are carefully structured to avoid duplication of effort and 
to ensure that discussions and debate are complementary, both in terms of a bottom-up and 
top-down flow of information and accountability. These Committees met regularly and carried 
out their tasks in keeping with their scope. The Management Committees proved to be key in 
enhancing employee engagement and empowerment. 
Illustrated below is the structure of the three Committees.
Industry Group
Business unit/ 
Function
Sector
Group 
Management 
Management 
Committee
Sector 
Committee
President
Senior VP/ VP/
Senior Assistant VP/ 
Assistant VP/Senior 
Manager/Manager 
	y
Strategy formulation 
	y
Performance 
monitoring 
	y
Career 
management and 
succession planning 
	y
Risk management 
	y
Implementation of 
Group Initiatives 
Executive VP
Note: Vice President (VP)
3.5	
Employee Empowerment 
The Group ensures that the necessary policies, processes and systems are in place to ensure 
effective recruitment, development and retention of this vital stakeholder. The bedrock of these 
policies is the Group's competency framework, which has been further refined and updated to 
reflect the current needs of the Group. To support these policies, the Group continued with, and 
further strengthened, the following practices. 
	y
Top management and other senior staff are mandated to involve, as appropriate, all levels of 
staff in formulating goals, strategies and plans. 
	y
Decision rights were defined for each level of employment in order to instil a sense of 
ownership, reduce bureaucracy and speed-up the decision-making process. 
	y
A bottom-up approach was taken in the preparation of annual and long-term plans and the 
Group also ensured employee involvement in strategy, and thereby empowerment. 
	y
Organisational and Committee structures are designed to enable, and facilitate, high 
accessibility of all employees to every level of management. 
	y
Open, honest, frank and constructive communication is encouraged at all levels. The Group 
strongly believes that constructive disagreement is essential for optimal decision-making. 

233
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
The Group prioritises a safe, secure and conducive environment for all its employees, allows 
freedom of association and collective bargaining, prohibits child labour, forced or compulsory 
labour and any discrimination based on gender, race, religion, gender identity or sexual 
orientation, and promotes workplaces which are free from physical, verbal or sexual harassment. 
4	
INTEGRATED GOVERNANCE SYSTEMS AND PROCEDURES 
Listed below are the main governance systems and procedures of the Group. These systems 
and procedures strengthen the elements of the JKH Internal Governance Structure and are 
benchmarked against industry best practice. 
i.	
Strategy formulation and decision-making process 
ii.	
Human resource governance 
iii.	 Integrated risk management 
iv.	 IT governance 
v.	
Tax governance 
vi.	 Stakeholder management and effective communications 
vii.	 Sustainability governance
	y
Seeks to ensure that ethical business practices are the norm from the most senior to the 
most junior employee, stemming from, and including the Board of Directors. All Group 
companies have procedures and processes to enable the prevention and reduction 
of corruption and bribery. Each business unit is also expected to evaluate the risk of 
corruption as part of its risk management process and put in place mitigation measures 
to reduce such risks. Its transparent control and prevention mechanisms also extend this 
expectation to its value chain comprising of its customers, suppliers and business partners. 
The Group is required to analyse all its business units and functions and include the risk of 
corruption as part of its risk management process. The Group has a zero-tolerance policy 
towards bribery and corruption. 
	y
Stringent checks during the recruitment process ensures that minimum age requirements 
are met.
	y
Ensures that all businesses are educated on the possible sources of forced and compulsory 
labour.
	y
Committed to upholding the universal human rights of all its stakeholders.
	y
Is an equal opportunity employer and has zero-tolerance for physical or verbal harassment 
based on gender identity, race, religion, nationality, age, social origin, disability, sexual 
orientation, political affiliations or opinion.
Ethical business practices of the Group
4.1	
Strategy Formulation and Decision-Making Processes
4.1.1	 Strategy Mapping
Strategy mapping exercises, concentrating on the short, medium and long-term aspirations of 
each business, are conducted annually and reviewed, at a minimum, quarterly/half-yearly or as and 
when a situation so demands.
This exercise entails the following key aspects, among others.
	y
Progress and deviation report of the strategies formed.
	y
Competitor analysis and competitive positioning.
	y
Analysis of key risks and opportunities.
	y
Management of stakeholders, such as, suppliers and customers.
	y
Value enhancement through initiatives centred on the various forms of Capital under an 
integrated reporting framework.
The strategies of the various business units, 
operating in diverse industries and markets, 
will always revolve around the Group strategy, 
while considering their domain specific 
factors. The prime focus always is to heighten 
value for all stakeholders.
The Group's investment appraisal 
methodology and decision-making 
process ensures the involvement of all 
key stakeholders that are relevant to the 
evaluation of the decision.
In this manner:
	y
A broad range of views, opinions and 
advice are obtained prior to making an 
investment decision.
	y
A holistic view is taken on the commercial 
viability and potential of any project, 
including operational, financial, 
funding, legal, risk, sustainability and tax 
implications. 
	y
Sensitivity and scenario analysis are 
conducted to understand the impacts 
from the macroeconomic environment, 
especially during periods of volatility and 
uncertainty. 
	y
All investment decisions are consensual in 
nature, made through the afore-discussed 
management Committee structure where 
no single individual has unfettered decision-
making powers over investment decisions.
	y
The ultimate responsibility and 
accountability of the investment decision 
rests with the Chairperson-CEO.
“The strategies of the various 
business units, operating in 
diverse industries and markets, 
will always revolve around 
the Group strategy, while 
considering their domain 
specific factors. The prime 
focus always is to heighten 
value for all stakeholders.
The Group's investment 
appraisal methodology and 
decision-making process 
ensures the involvement of 
all key stakeholders that are 
relevant to the evaluation of 
the decision.”

234 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMENTARY
	y
Identification of the core values the business will 
operate with and the internal promises that the 
business will strive to deliver to stakeholder interests
Performance 
Measurement
Measure of performance 
against:
	y
Promises
	y
Annual plans and 
projects
	y
Long-term initiatives
	y
Financial objectives
	y
Review of global and regional trends
	y
Identification of insights, risks, challenges, opportunities 
and implications, collated into key themes
	y
Articulation and approval of detailed project plans for 
execution of workstreams
	y
Approval of Annual Business Plans
	y
Identifying key activities required to be undertaken 
under each theme and the articulation of the varied 
brand-led themes and activities
	y
Identification of KPIs to measure delivery of promises
	y
Setting of a long-term goal and agreeing on the core 
pillars that would deliver growth 
	y
Target setting, scheduling activities and identifying 
workstreams to execute long-term initiatives
	y
Identifying operating and capital expenditure along with 
capability resources
Values and Promises
Brand and Business Review
Brand Plan
Long-term Business Plan
Annual Business Plans
The following section further elaborates on the Group's strategy formulation and planning process.
1.  Formulating business strategy, 
objectives and risk management 
for each BU for the financial year 
and ensuing 5 years
2.  GEC review 
and approval 
3.  Business 
performance 
evaluation of the first 
six months against 
the target 
4.  Reforecasting 
the targets for the 
second half of 
the year and GEC 
approval
5.  Performance 
evaluation of 
the second 
half/full year
Continuous 
performance 
monitoring 
at BU/sector/
industry group 
level
4.1.2	 Medium-term Strategy
The ensuing section illustrates the comprehensive process followed by each business in 
developing the business's strategy for the medium-term.
4.1.3	 Project Approval Process
Projects undertaken at the Group follow 
a detailed feasibility report covering key 
business considerations under multiple 
scenarios, within a framework of sustainability. 
The feasibility stage is not restricted to a 
financial feasibility and encompasses a wider 
scope of work covering risk management, 
sustainable development, ESG and HR 
considerations.
Based on the decision rights matrix, 
subsequent to review by the relevant 
leadership Committee of the feasibility 
report and post in principle approval, a 
multi-disciplined project team will proceed 
to the next phase of the project evaluation 
which will focus on detailed operational, 
commercial, financial and legal due diligence, 
including a deep dive into ESG impacts and 
risks. Discussions will also commence with 
regulatory and licensing authorities, financial 
institutions and possible partners, worker 
representatives, as relevant and deemed 
necessary.
	y
Where the transaction involves the transfer 
or lease of land, title searches would be 
conducted for both private and State 
land. In case of State land, every action 
would be taken to ensure compliance 
with the relevant rules and regulations. 
As appropriate, written authority and 
approvals will be obtained. 
	y
Any project which involves bidding on 
contracts and tenders, including to those of 
local and foreign Government and related 
bodies, is executed in conformance with 
the Group's policy on bidding on contracts 
and tenders. It is noted that, while the 
Company currently does not have any 
contracts with any local and foreign 
Governments, the Company will disclose 
the same in its financial statements, in such 
an event.
	y
Where the project is a part of a 
privatisation, the entire process will be 
conducted in line with the directives of 
the relevant administrative authority as 
communicated through expressions of 
interests, request for proposals, pre-
bid meetings, official approvals and 
correspondence.

235
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Identification of:
	y
Performance rating
	y
Competency ratings
Identification of:
	y
Long-term development plans
	y
Competency-based training needs
	y
Business focused training needs
Identification of:
	y Chairperson's Award
	y Employee of the Year
	y Champion of the Year
Identification of:
	y Promotions
	y Inter-company transfers
	y Inter-department transfers
Identification of:
	y High performers
	y High potential
Identification of:
	y Jobs at risk 
	y Suitable successors
	y Readiness level of successors
	y Development plans 
	y External recruitments
Performance 
Management 
System
Subsequent to the project satisfying the above highlighted criteria, the final approval to proceed 
will be granted by the Board. Based on thresholds of the investment quantum, the Project Risk 
Assessment Committee, on behalf of the Board, will review and assess risks associated with 
such investments and the mitigatory plans thereto, if mitigation is possible, and identify risks 
that cannot be mitigated. The aim of this intervention is to ensure alignment with the interest 
of various stakeholders and to recommend to the Board, necessary action required, to mitigate 
risks that are identified in the course of evaluating a project in order to ensure that those risks are 
captured by the Group Risk Matrix for monitoring and mitigation. When appropriate, the GEC is 
empowered to approve such proposals in terms of the delegated decision rights with the Board 
being kept informed.
The aforementioned project appraisal framework flow is illustrated below:
Risk management
Sustainability management
Legal, regulatory and HR requirements/framework
Project 
origination 
Feasibility 
study
Review by 
the GEC
Due 
diligence 
Board/ 
GEC approval 
“The Group human resource 
governance framework is 
designed in a manner that 
enables high accessibility by 
any employee to every level 
of management. Constant 
dialogue and facilitation is 
also maintained, ranging from 
work related issues to matters 
pertaining to general interest 
that could affect employees 
and their families. The Group 
follows an open-door policy 
for its employees which is 
promoted at all levels of the 
Group.”
Whilst the employees are appraised for their performance, equal emphasis is placed on how well they embody Group Values, namely: Caring, Trust, 
Integrity, Excellence and Innovation.
4.2	
Human Resource Governance
The Group human resource governance framework is designed in a manner that enables high accessibility by any employee to every level of 
management. Constant dialogue and facilitation is also maintained, ranging from work related issues to matters pertaining to general interest that 
could affect employees and their families. The Group follows an open-door policy for its employees which is promoted at all levels of the Group.
The state-of-the-art cloud based human resource information system (HRIS) manages the entire lifecycle of the employee from onboarding to 
performance management, succession planning, compensation, learning and development, through to offboarding.
4.2.1	 Performance Management
The Performance Management System, as illustrated below, is at the heart of many supporting human resource management processes such as learning and 
development, competency mapping, career development, succession planning, talent management, rewards/recognition and compensation/benefits.
Learning and 
Development
Compensation 
and Benefits
Career 
Development
Rewards and 
Recognition
Succession 
Planning
Talent 
Management

236 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMENTARY
Performance Management
'Pay for performance'
Greater prominence is given to the incentive component of the 
total target compensation.
Internal Equity
	y
Remuneration policy is built upon the premise of ensuring equal 
pay for equal roles.
	y
Manager and above level roles are banded using the Mercer 
methodology for job evaluation, on the basis of the relative 
worth of jobs.
Satisfaction
'More than just a workplace'
Continuously focuses on creating a sound work environment 
covering all aspects of employee satisfaction.
External Equity
	y
Fixed compensation is set at competitive levels using the median, 
65th percentile and 75th percentile of the best comparator set of 
companies (from Sri Lanka and the region, as relevant) as a guide.
	y
Regular surveys are done to ensure that employees are not 
under / over compensated. 
Compensation Policy
	y
Compensation comprises of fixed (base) payments, short-term incentives, and long-term incentives.
	y
Higher the authority levels within the Group, higher the incentive component as a percentage of total pay.
	y
Greater the decision influencing capability of a role, higher the weight given to organisational performance as opposed to individual performance.
	y
Long-term incentives are in the form of Employee Share Options and cash payments.
JKH Success Drivers 
During the year, the Group embarked on a project to transform the Group Competency Framework which has been in use for over a decade. The 
outcome was a refreshed and more relevant set of new competencies termed 'Success Drivers' which will be implemented for use during the 
ensuing year. The 'Success Drivers' evolved through the establishment of a series of workshops and discussions, and has been developed to be 
current, relevant and flexible in the context of the diversity of the Group talent pool and range of demographics it operates in.
The following pool of nine 'Success Drivers' were identified and developed through discussions and workshops, with a diverse range of internal 
stakeholders, at different levels.
1.	 Inclusive Leadership
	y
Inclusivity and diversity
	y
Collaboration and open communication
	y
Compassion and empathy
	y
Coaching and mentoring
	y
Upholding values
4.	 Relentless Execution
	y
Action orientation
	y
Prioritisation
	y
Effective time management focus and 
commitment
7.	 Entrepreneurial Mindset
	y
Innovative thinking
	y
Decisiveness and ownership
	y
Unwavering commitment
	y
Prudent risk-taking
2.	 Connecting The Dots
	y
Big picture perspective
	y
Multidisciplinary approach
	y
Critical thinking
	y
Value driven approach
5.	 Emotional Resilience
	y
Self-control and self-regulation
	y
Adapting to change
	y
Bouncing back from adversities
	y
Positive outlook and growth mindset
8.	 360 Stakeholder Commitment
	y
Passion for all stakeholders
	y
Building synergies
	y
Trust and credibility
	y
Commitment to financial outcomes + ESG
3.	 Being Agile
	y
Adapting to change
	y
Thriving in uncertainty
	y
Bouncing back from adversities 
	y
Rapid experimentation approach
	y
Solution-oriented growth mindset
6.	 Storytelling
	y
Impactful communication
	y
Inspiring people
	y
Creative ways of engagement
	y
Active listening
9.	 Corporate Citizenship
	y
Commitment to ESG
	y
Ethical practices
	y
Focus on sustainability
4.2.2	 Performance Based Compensation Philosophy
The JKH Group Compensation Policy is as follows:

237
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Risk 
Presentation
Risk 
Validation
Integrated 
Risk  
Management
Risk 
Identification
External 
Environment
Business Strategies 
and Policies
Business 
Process
Organisation 
and People
Analysis and 
Reporting
Technology 
and Data
Sustainability 
and CSR
JKH PLC Audit Committee
Group Executive Committee (GEC)
Listed Company Audit Committee
Group Management Committee (GMC)
Business Unit
 
Risk Management 
Team
Risk and Control 
Review Team
Sustainability 
Integration
Operational Units
Report Content
Headline Risks
John Keells Group Review Risk  
Report and Action
BU Review and Sector Risk Report  
and Action
BU Risk Report and Action
4.2.2.1  Equity Sharing
Employee Share Option Plans are offered at defined 
career levels based on pre-determined criteria which are 
uniformly applied across the eligible levels and performance 
levels. These long-term incentives have been significantly 
instrumental in inculcating a deep sense of ownership in 
the recipients and is seen to be a key driver of performance-
driven rewards. Share options are awarded to individuals 
on the basis of their immediate performance and potential 
importance of their contribution to the Group's future plans.
The Company issues share options not exceeding a specified 
percentage of the total issued shares of the Company as at 
the date of awarding every such option, which is subject to 
in-principle approval of the CSE and shareholder approval, by 
way of a Special Resolution at a General Meeting.
4.3	
Integrated Risk Management
JKH's Group-wide risk management programme focuses on 
wider sustainability development, to identify, evaluate and 
manage significant Group risks and to stress test various risk 
scenarios, including a review of materiality. The programme 
ensures that a multitude of risks, arising as a result of the 
Group's diverse operations, are effectively managed in 
creating and preserving stakeholder wealth. The Group 
manages its enterprise risk, audit and incident management 
processes through an automated risk management platform 
that enables the maintenance of live, dynamic and virtual risk 
registers which are linked to business goals and responsible 
personnel. Features such as, the provision of timely alerts on 
action plans and escalation processes for risks, where action 
plans are over-due, ensure maintenance of live risk grids.
Continuous steps taken towards promoting the Group's integrated risk 
management process are:
	y
Integrating and aligning activities and processes related to planning, policies/ 
procedures, culture, competency, internal audit, financial management, 
monitoring and reporting with risk management.
	y
Supporting executives/managers in moving the organisation forward in a 
cohesive integrated and aligned manner to improve performance, while 
operating effectively, efficiently, ethically and legally within the established 
limits for risk taking. The risk management programmes have allowed greater 
visibility and understanding of risk appetites. Enabled by the automated risk 
management platform, key management personnel have virtual visibility of 
the risks, as relevant, while the Board has visibility of all Group risks.
The Board, GEC and Group Management Committees, oversee risk management 
across the Group to ensure that risks are brought within tolerance, managed and/
or mitigated.
4.3.1	 Risk Management Process
The Group's Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) process is designed to ensure 
businesses are proactively identifying, assessing, and mitigating risk events. The 
risk management framework ensures consistency in methodology across diverse 
businesses and functions and follows both a top-down and bottom-up integrated 
approach, alongside strategic planning and decision-making. The annual cycle 
involves business-level risk identification and review on a quarterly basis, which 
is consolidated upwards at sector and industry group management committees, 
while Group risks are reviewed on a biannual basis. Risk appetite thresholds are 
set at a Group level and captured in the annual Group Risk Report, which also 
details Group-wide risk ratings, risk profile and analysis and is presented to the JKH 
Audit Committee where the salient aspects of this reviewed by the Board, thereby 
concluding the risk management annual process. Policy level changes emerging 
from the discussion at the JKH Audit Committee are then incorporated in the 
following cycle to ensure alignment with the changing risk environment.
The risk management process and information ﬂow is portrayed below:

238 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMENTARY
  Risk Management System
The Group ERM review process is 
facilitated through an online Enterprise 
Risk Management System. The system is 
firmly embedded across the Group, hosted 
internally, and controlled access is provided 
to all employees as relevant.
Quarterly risk reviews are carried out via the 
system, with all business unit risk registers 
hosted online. Its functionality allows for a 
dynamic risk management environment, 
enabling analysis of ratings and movement 
of risks over time, access to historical 
data and risk reporting. The system also 
aggregates and records risk under the 
Group's ERM framework and provides 
an integrated approach to risk and risk 
mitigation across Group businesses.
4.3.2	 Key Impacts, Risks and Opportunities
The Group takes a holistic approach to risk 
management, covering risks that are both 
financial and non-financial in nature, including its 
own operations as well as risks that may emanate 
from its supply chain partners. The 'Precautionary 
Principle' influences the Group's approach to risk 
management of environmental impacts while, 
management of human and social capital risks is 
also highlighted and prioritised.
The ERM framework operates in concurrence 
with the Group's corporate governance structure 
and is linked to sustainability, corporate social 
responsibility and internal audit functions and 
processes, ensuring that regulatory compliance, 
ethical guidelines and sustainability concerns are 
integrated seamlessly across businesses when 
identifying risks and opportunities.
	y Financial, strategic, operational, 
information technology, governance 
and sustainability-related risks are 
considered.
	y All risks are categorised within a 
common Risk Universe.
	y Headline and Related Risk classification 
of all Group risks to allow consistency 
across Group businesses.
	y 5x5 risk matrix for rating of risks with 
respect to likelihood and anticipated 
impact.
Risk Management Framework
Refer the Key Risks section under Outlook and 
Risks and Notes to the Financial Statements for 
further details.
4.4	
Information Technology (IT) Governance
IT governance stewardship roles are governed through layered and nested committees, cascading 
from the Board, GEC, GOC, the Group IT Steering Committee and to the Group IT Operations 
Committee with well-defined roles and responsibilities across the Group with a federated 
governance structure to cater to the holistic Group-level as well as specific industry level nuances. 
This ensures empowerment and enablement to act with a singular and more robust governance 
and policy framework across the Group, whilst being agile and nimble.
The Group's IT governance framework focuses on five broader segments, namely, strategic 
alignment, value delivery, performance management, risk management, and resource 
management. Additionally, the IT governance framework used within the Group leverages on 
best practice and industry leading models such as CoBIT (Control Objectives for Information 
and Related Technology), ISO 35800, ISO27001, ISO 9001:2015, COSO (Committee of Sponsoring 
Organisations of the Treadway Commission)/BCP (Business Continuity Planning), ITIL (Information 
Technology Infrastructure Library), CMMI (Capability Maturity Model Integration), NIST (National 
Institute of Standards and Technology), FAIR (Factor Analysis of Information Risk), among others, 
in formulating a state-of-the-art framework for IT governance, risk and compliance management 
across the Group. The key focus areas of the governance framework are as follows:
Transparency
Accountability 
and 
Responsibility
Corporate 
IT 
Culture
Data and 
Business 
Intelligence
Infrastructure 
and 
Operations
IT Security 
and 
Risks
Service 
Planning and 
Architecture
Skills 
and 
Resources
Stewardship
Strategic 
and 
IT Governance
G
o
o
d
 I
T
C
o
m
p
l
i
a
n
c
e
M
a
n
a
g
e
r
I
T
 
G
o
v
e
r
n
a
n
c
e
 
&
G
o
v
e
r
n
a
n
c
e
R
i
s
k
 
C
y
b
e
r
 
s
e
c
u
r
i
t
y
Digitisation
Availability and 
Capacity 
Management
Disaster 
Recovery 
Planning
Business 
Intelligence and 
Reporting
Business Process 
Controls and 
Internal Audit
Quantitative 
Methods
Quality 
Management
Project and 
Portfolio 
Management
IT Risk 
Management
IT Risk 
Intelligence
IT Risk 
Assessment
IT 
Organisation 
Design
IT Management 
and 
Policies
IT and Data 
Service 
Management
Incident and 
Problem 
Management
Enterprise 
Application 
Selection and 
Implementation
Application 
Portfolio 
Management
Business 
Continuity
Enterprise 
Architecture
Metadata
Change 
Management
Code of 
Conduct
Configuration 
Management
Conflict of 
Interest
Corporate 
Governance
Data 
Architecture
Data 
Management
Data 
Quality
Data 
Transformation
Digital 
Economy
Application 
Maintenance
Digital IT 
Culture
The Group continually focuses on enhancing the IT governance framework in line with its business 
and IT strategies with a focused shift towards a zero-trust model built on a mobile-first, internet-
first, cloud-first and artificial intelligence (AI)-first strategy.

239
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
	y
Voluntary compliance and efficient tax management are key aspects of the Group's overall tax strategy.
	y
This is enabled through a decentralised tax structure where expertise is built at each industry group level to support 
decision-making.
	y
The Head of Tax of each industry group, reporting functionally to the Group Head of Tax, ensures uniformity of 
interpretation, robust compliance management and roll-out of Group tax strategy across all businesses.
	y
Ensure:
•	 Integrity of all reported tax disclosures.
•	 Robust controls and processes to manage tax risk.
•	 Openness, honesty, and transparency in all dealings.
•	 Presence of legitimate business transactions underpinning any tax planning or structuring decision/opportunity.
	y
Contribute to fiscal policy formulations constructively in the interest of all stakeholders.
	y
Implement and maintain strong compliance processes.
	y
Analyse and disseminate business impact from changes in tax legislation.
	y
Provide clear, timely, and relevant business focused advice across all aspects of tax.
	y
Ensure availability of strong and well documented technical support for all tax positions.
	y
Obtain independent/external opinions where the law is unclear or subject to interpretation.
	y
Leverage on digital platforms to support, record and report on tax compliance status across the Group.
	y
Periodic updates to the Board of Directors on the Group Tax positions (quarterly at minimum).
Governance 
Structure
Policy and 
Strategy
Role
Review and 
Monitoring
To improve the Group's cybersecurity and digitisation efforts, an 'Endpoint Detection and 
Response (EDR)' solution was implemented. The adoption of a solution from an eco-system 
partner, through a rigorous selection process, was also a significant milestone in the Group's 
digitisation journey, providing elevated security across operations.
A SMART Office mobile application was also rolled-out across the group. The SMART Office 
application empowers the workforce with advanced tools, improving mobility, productivity, 
and streamlining and automating processes. The successful roll-out of Minimum Viable 
Product (MVP) 1 of the SMART Office mobile application has already yielded benefits, with 
ongoing developments providing further enhancements.
Key Initiatives during the year
4.5	
Tax Governance
The Group's tax governance framework and tax strategy is guided by the overarching principles of compliance, transparency and accountability, 
and acknowledges the Group's duty in fulfilling its tax obligations as per fiscal legislation, while preserving value for other stakeholders, particularly 
investors.
The Group's approach to tax governance is directly linked to the sustainability of business operations. The presence of a well-structured tax governance 
framework ensures the following:
	y
Ability to manage tax exposures efficiently by reducing the tax burden on the Group, within the ambit of applicable laws.
	y
Manage tax risks and implications on Group reputation through adequate policies and proactive communication defence.
	y
Facilitate healthy relationships amongst stakeholders, Government and tax authorities.
	y
Ensuring integrity of reported numbers and timely compliance.
“The Group's tax governance 
framework and tax strategy 
is guided by the overarching 
principles of compliance, 
transparency and accountability, 
and acknowledges the 
Group's duty in fulfilling its 
tax obligations as per fiscal 
legislation, while preserving 
value for other stakeholders, 
particularly investors.”

240 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMENTARY
	y
Providing of quality and safe 
products
	y
Constant engagement with 
customers
	y
Procedures to ensure long-term 
business relationships with 
suppliers
	y
Transactions in compliance with 
all relevant laws and regulations, 
transparently and ethically
	y
Zero-tolerance policy in ensuring 
that all business units meet their 
statutory obligations in time and 
in full
	y
Provision of formal and 
sometimes informal, access to 
other key stakeholders
	y
Investor relations team and 
publications
	y
Social media presence 
	y
Prompt release of information to 
public/CSE
	y
Effective communication of AGM 
related matters
	y
Measures in place in case of 
serious loss of capital
	y
Accessibility to all levels of the 
management
	y
Various means for employee 
involvement 
•	 Corporate Communications
•	 John Keells Employee Self 
Service (JESS)
•	 HIVE
•	 Staff Volunteerism
C
us
t
o
m
er
s
/
S
h
ar
e
h
ol
d
er
s/
E
m
pl
oy
e
es
St
a
ke
h
ol
d
er
s
G
o
v
er
n
m
e
nt
S
u
p
p
li
er
s
I
n
v
e
st
o
r
s
O
t
h
e
r 
K
e
y
Stakeholder 
Management
4.6.1	 Communication with Shareholders 
The Group maintains several communication channels with the shareholders which include 
the Annual Report, interim financial statements, AGMs, EGMs, announcements to the CSE, press 
releases, the corporate website, shareholder surveys on a needs basis, the investor feedback form 
provided in the Annual Report, and through the Company Secretaries. 
Engagement Mechanism
Frequency
Annual Reports and AGMs
Annually
Extraordinary General Meetings
As required
Interim financial statements and webinar
Quarterly
Investor presentations
As required, quarterly at a minimum
Press releases 
As required
Announcements to CSE
As required
One-to-one discussions
As required
Investors' section in the Corporate website
Continuous
Feedback surveys 
As required
4.6.1.1  Investor Relations
The Investor Relations team of the Group is responsible for maintaining an active dialogue with 
shareholders, potential investors, investment banks, analysts and other interested parties in 
ensuring effective investor communication.
	y
The Investor Relations team has regular discussions with shareholders, as and when applicable, 
to disseminate highlights of the Group's performance as well as to obtain constructive 
feedback. 
	y
The online quarterly investor forums provide stakeholders the opportunity to directly engage 
with the Group's Chairperson/CEO and the Deputy Chairperson/Group Finance Director. The 
recording of the investor forum is made available on the corporate website for reference of all 
stakeholders/shareholders.  
	y
Investor Presentations, which include an 
update on the latest financial results, are 
made available on the corporate website, to 
provide easier access and in-depth detail of 
the operational performance of the Group. 
	y
Shareholders may, at any time, direct 
questions, request for publicly available 
information and provide comments and 
suggestions to Directors or management 
of the Group by contacting the Investor 
Relations team, Secretaries, the Senior 
Independent Director or the Chairperson-
CEO, although individual shareholders are 
encouraged to carry out adequate analysis or 
seek independent advice on their investing, 
holding or divesting decisions at all times.
4.6.1.2  Release of Information to the Public 
and CSE
The Board of Directors, in conjunction with 
the Audit Committee, where applicable, is 
responsible in ensuring the accuracy and 
timeliness of published information and in 
presenting a true and fair view, and balanced 
assessment of results in the quarterly and 
annual financial statements. Accordingly, JKH 
has reported a true and fair view of its financial 
position and performance for the year ended 
31 March 2024 and at the end of each quarter 
of the financial year 2023/24.
Refer the Stakeholder Engagement and Determining Materiality sections for a detailed discussion - pages 256 and 258
4.6	
Stakeholder Management and Effective Communication
Following are the key stakeholder management methodologies adopted by the Group. Whilst the Group has multiple channels enabling effective 
communication, there were no material concerns that were raised during the year by stakeholders regarding the operations of the Group.

241
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
All other material and price sensitive information about the Company is promptly communicated 
to the CSE and such information is also released to employees, the press and shareholders. 
Shareholders may, at any time, direct questions, request for publicly available information and 
provide comments and suggestions to Directors or Management of JKH. Such questions, requests 
and comments should be addressed to the Company Secretary.
The Group focuses on open communication and fair disclosure, with emphasis on the integrity, 
timeliness and relevance of the information provided. The Group ensures that information is 
communicated accurately and in a manner that will avoid the creation or continuation of a false market.
4.6.1.3  Annual General Meeting
Year of the AGM
Number of 
attendees/ 
proxy holders
Shareholding 
(No. of shares)
% of total 
shareholding
2022/23
74
847,476,032
61
2021/22
82
820,115,386
59
2020/21
72
690,870,858
52
Information is provided to the shareholders prior to the AGM to give them an opportunity to 
exercise the prerogative to raise any issues relating to the businesses of the Group. Annual Reports 
are made available to shareholders in electronic form. Shareholders may at any time elect to 
receive an Annual Report from JKH in printed form, which is provided free of charge.
The Group constructively makes use of the AGM towards enhancing relationships with the 
shareholders and towards this end the following procedures are followed:
	y
Notice of the AGM and related documents are made available to the shareholders along with 
the Annual Report within the specified time.
	y
Summary of procedures governing voting at the AGM are clearly communicated.
	y
The Board ensures that the external auditors are present at the AGM.
	y
Most Executive and Non-Executive Directors are made available to answer queries.
	y
The Chairperson-CEO ensures that the relevant senior managers are also available at the AGM 
to answer specific queries.
	y
Separate resolutions are proposed for each item that is required to be voted on.
	y
Proxy votes, those for, against, and withheld (abstained) are counted.
4.6.1.4  Serious Loss of Capital
In the unlikely event that the net assets of a company fall below half of its stated capital, shareholders 
will be notified, and the requisite resolutions would be passed on the proposed way forward.
4.6.1.5  Extraordinary General Meetings, including Shareholder Approval through Special 
Resolution
The Company will seek shareholder approval, either via special or ordinary resolution as permitted 
under applicable law, when transactions and events which are material in the context of Group 
and Company occur or are undertaken in line with all applicable rules and regulations.
4.7	
Sustainability Governance
The Group remains steadfast in its commitment to being responsible and conducting operations 
in a sustainable manner whilst focusing on environmental, social and governance aspects. 
Sustainable practices remain a strategic priority of the Group and this is ensured through 
embedding into day-to-day operations.
4.7.1	 Approach
The Group's approach to sustainability continues to be aligned to support the Sustainable 
Development Goals adopted by the United Nations in 2015, which expands on the Millennium 
Development Goals. The Board firmly embeds sustainability concerns within the Group's strategic 
planning process, with companies striving to optimise performance from a triple bottom line 
lens and Internal and External Sustainability 
Assurance and Standard Operating Procedures 
are in place to review the effectiveness of 
the procedures embodied by the group on a 
needs basis.
The Group has in place a sound sustainability 
integration process, management framework 
and sustainability organisational structure 
through which sustainable practices are 
embedded to the Group's operations. 
4.7.2	 Sustainability Integration Process
External Reporting
Identification of Risks, 
Opportunities and Stakeholder 
Concerns
Sustainability Initiatives to manage 
Areas of Concern and Goal setting
Sustainability Policy and 
Management Framework
IT Platform for providing 
Management Information and 
Variance Control
Internal and External Sustainability 
Assurance and Standard Operating 
Procedures
The Group's well-established sustainability 
integration processes and its sustainability 
management framework work alongside 
other key functions and management systems 
such as human resources, health and safety 
and product responsibility processes, as well 
as risk management, internal audit, legal and 
statutory compliance and corporate social 
responsibility initiatives. The Sustainability 
Management Framework is updated on a 
continuous basis to incorporate changing 
requirements and updates to the global 
sustainability landscape.
Environmental issues such as, climate change, 
resource scarcity and environmental pollution, 
social issues such as, the Group's labour 
practices, talent management, product safety 
and data security, and Governance aspects 
such as, Board diversity, executive pay and 
business ethics are given significant emphasis 
within the Group and are periodically reviewed 
at a GEC and Board level. 

242 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMENTARY
Responsible for formulating and steering the Group's overall sustainability strategy.
Operationalises the Sustainability Management Framework (SMF) and carries out Group-wide 
processes, including identification of stakeholder and material issues, stakeholder 
engagements, risk assessments, Group-wide awareness campaigns and overall review and 
monitoring of the SMF.
Each business unit is responsible for their sustainability performance, operating under the 
umbrella of the Group's SMF. Sustainability Champions under the leadership of their respective 
Heads of Business/Sector Heads, and working closely with the central sustainability division, have 
responsibility for implementing sustainability initiatives and management of performance of their 
individual businesses.
Group Executive Committee
Sustainability, Enterprise Risk Management and Group Initiatives Division
Business Units
ESG Disclosures through:
International <IR> Framework 
of the International Integrated 
Reporting Council
Operations in conformity with the 
Principles of the United Nations 
Global Compact
Global Reporting Initiative
Group's effort towards ESG 
initiatives during the year
	y
The Group, along with an international 
consulting firm, conducted an in-
depth study within each industry 
group to identify material ESG topics 
in the current context.
	y
Benchmarking studies were 
conducted across the businesses to 
assess their ESG performance vis-à-vis 
industry leaders. 
	y
Stakeholder engagement sessions were 
held with both internal and external 
stakeholders across sectors to gather 
insights. These efforts culminated in the 
determination of material ESG topics 
for each industry group and a holistic 
perspective for the JKH Group.
	y
Subsequently, a series of ambition-
setting workshops were convened. 
These workshops involved the senior 
leadership of each industry group, 
including the Chairperson/CEO and 
Deputy Chairperson/Group Finance 
Director, in defining both Group-level 
and sector-specific ESG ambitions. 
	y
This collaborative process ensured 
alignment between the overarching 
Group goals and the specific 
objectives of each sector.
The Group's ESG framework is an 
amalgamation of the various frameworks 
within the Group, and, through this, the 
Group endeavours to ensure sustainable value 
creation for all stakeholders and mitigate any 
adverse impacts of Group businesses on the 
environment, economy and society. As such, 
the ESG disclosures across the Report are 
captured through the following frameworks:
4.7.3	 Sustainability Organisation Structure
The Group firmly embeds sustainability concerns within the Group's strategic planning process, 
with companies striving to optimise performance from a triple bottom line lens. All business 
units are required to identify non-financial risks and material impacts and include strategies to 
address these through sustainability initiatives and projects. Business and individual objectives 
are therefore aligned with overall sustainability goals, resulting in an entrenched focus on 
sustainability.
The SMF extends beyond Group boundaries, also focusing on the Group's value chain with the 
purpose of benefiting suppliers and their own dependent supply chains. Through its Supplier Code 
of Conduct, annual assessment of supply chain partners and ongoing awareness and engagement 
through Supplier Fora, the Group hopes to have a positive impact on key external stakeholders.
4.7.4	 Sustainability Disclosures
The Group uses both its Annual Integrated Report and corporate website as the primary means of 
responding to stakeholder concerns and outlining its sustainability strategy, including materiality 
assessments and management policies and processes. The data measurement techniques, 
calculation methodologies, assumptions and estimations applied in the compilation of the 
sustainability indicators contained in this Report, are in accordance with standard industry 
practices and GRI Standard. Such data measurement techniques, methodologies, assumptions and 
estimations are detailed in the relevant Management Approach Disclosures section and can be 
found in the relevant management approach disclosures in each of the Capital Review sections of 
the Annual Report. Reference to specific information and disclosures required by the GRI Standards 
can be found through the GRI content index. Figures and statements have been rearranged, 
wherever necessary, to conform to the current year's presentation in terms of restatements and 
comparisons to the previous year.
“The Group firmly embeds sustainability concerns within the 
Group's strategic planning process, with companies striving to 
optimise performance from a triple bottom line lens. All business 
units are required to identify non-financial risks and material 
impacts and include strategies to address these through 
sustainability initiatives and projects. Business and individual 
objectives are therefore aligned with overall sustainability goals, 
resulting in an entrenched focus on sustainability.”

243
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
JKH Code of Conduct
	y
Allegiance to the Company and the 
Group, that ensures the Group will 'do 
the right thing', by going further than 
the letter of any contract, the law and 
the Group's written policies.
	y
Compliance with rules and regulations 
applying in the territories that the 
Group operates in.
	y
Conduct all businesses in an ethical 
manner at all times in keeping 
with acceptable business practices 
and demonstrate respect for the 
communities the Group operates in 
and the natural environment.
	y
Exercise of professionalism and 
integrity in all business and 'public' 
personal transactions.
5	
ASSURANCE MECHANISMS
The Assurance Mechanisms comprise of 
the various supervisory, monitoring and 
benchmarking elements of the Group 
Corporate Governance System which are used 
to measure 'actuals' against 'plan' with a view 
to highlighting deviations, signalling the need 
for quick corrective action, and quick redress 
when necessary. These mechanisms also 
act as safety nets and internal checks in the 
Governance system. The Group also conducts 
internal and external audits on a periodic basis, 
annually at minimum.
As outlined in the ensuing sections, the Group 
has various mechanisms in place for concerns 
to be escalated and raised at a Board level or 
GEC level. Other than matters on significant 
transactions linked to the operations of the 
Group, no critical concerns which have a 
material adverse effect on the Group were 
raised during the year. 
5.1	
The Code of Conduct
	y
anti-bribery controls to prevent payments and contributions being made with the aim of 
obtaining an improper business benefit from any party including, but not limited to, clients, 
service providers, customers, business associates and political parties; and
	y
controls on gifting and favours. The giving or accepting gifts or favours in whatsoever form, 
including from clients, service providers, customers, business associates and political parties 
and any other stakeholder we engage with in the course of carrying out duties in our 
professional capacity, is prohibited if it was possible on the part of a 'reasonable person' to 
conclude that the giving/ acceptance of such gifts or favours could directly or indirectly affect 
one's independence in decision-making and conduct as an employee and/or if it could be 
seen by others as a consideration for an official or business favour. The 'reasonable person' test 
should also be applied in respect of charitable donations and sponsorships (financial or in-kind) 
that are made. 
	y
In the event a gift or benefit of a threshold of above USD 50 per gift is given or received, based 
on business exigencies, these are monitored to ensure conformance with the Group's policies, 
including policies on gifts and entertainment. Such exceptions are required to be reported 
to the respective Finance Head of the business (Chief Financial Officer or Sector Financial 
Controller), where in turn, these are collated and monitored centrally.
The Code of Conduct, and thereby all Group policies, apply to all employees and Directors. All 
policies of the Company receive final approval at Board level and are readily available to employees 
in the official languages of Sri Lanka (Sinhala, Tamil and English). The Company Leadership, both 
the Board of Directors and the Group Executive Committee, spearheads the implementation of the 
Code.
The Group further strengthened its internal policy universe during the year under review, keeping 
in line with best practice and the revised CSE Listing Rules, including reviewing the policies in 
terms of its interdependencies.
The objectives of the Code of Conduct are strongly affirmed by a strong set of Values which are 
well institutionalised at all levels within the Group through structured communication. The degree 
of employee conformance with Values and their degree of adherence to the JKH Code of Conduct 
are key elements of the reward and recognition schemes.
The Group Values continue to be consistently referred to by the Chairperson-CEO, Presidents, 
Sector and Business Unit Heads during employee and other key stakeholder engagements, in 
order to instil these values in the hearts and DNA of the employees.
Group Values are found in the Business Model section of the Annual Report - page 48
 
5.2	
Senior Independent Director (SID)
Considering the combined role of the Chairperson-CEO, the presence of the Senior Independent 
Director is important in ensuring that no one person has unfettered decision-making powers, 
and that matters discussed at the Board level are done so in an environment which facilitates 
independent thought by individual Directors. The Senior Independent Director also acts as 
the independent party to whom concerns could be voiced on a confidential basis. The Senior 
Independent Director is made available to discuss shareholder concerns including those of 
minority shareholders.
The Senior Independent Director meets with other Non-Executive Directors, without the presence 
of the Chairperson-CEO, at least twice every year to evaluate the effectiveness of the Chairperson-
CEO and has regular meetings with the other Non-Executive Directors on matters relating to the 
effectiveness of the Board or the Board as appropriate. The Senior Independent Director is also 
kept informed by the Ombudsperson of any matters in respect of the JKH Code of Conduct which 
has come to his attention.
The Code of Conduct also entails conformance 
to all Group policies, and includes, amongst 
many others, policies on gifts, entertainment, 
facilitation payments, proprietary and 
confidential information. Policies on anti-fraud, 
anti-corruption and anti-money laundering 
and countering the financing of terrorism 
and JKH's Code of Conduct, amongst other 
policies, also encompass:

244 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMENTARY
Report of the Senior Independent Director
A Cabraal 
S Coorey 
S Fernando (Appointed on 9 August 2023)
N Fonseka 
H Wijayasuriya 
The independence of each Director has been established based on the information and 
declarations submitted by them. The Board has concluded that all Non-Executive Directors 
are independent.
Apart from unstructured and informal contacts, the Independent Directors had two meetings 
without Executive Directors participating, to discuss matters relevant to their responsibilities 
as Non-Executive Directors. Remuneration of Executive Directors was determined at one 
such meeting of the Non-Executive Directors. The challenges and risks arising from volatile 
global geopolitical developments and local economic conditions were discussed and the 
management and mitigation of these risks received special attention of the Non-Executive 
Directors. These meetings concluded with a wrap up session with the Chairperson-CEO, who 
provided responses to matters raised, or agreed to provide further information or clarification 
at Board meetings. More details are provided in the Annual Report. 
The minutes of meetings of the Group Executive Committee (GEC) are circulated to the 
Non-Executive Directors to ensure a high degree of transparency and interaction between 
the Executive and Non-Executive members of the Board. The Non-Executive Directors are 
also kept advised on the progress of key ongoing projects and management responds to any 
clarifications sought. 
The Ombudsperson has reported to me that no issues have been brought to his attention 
that indicate mismanagement, unfair treatment or justified discontent on the part of any 
employee or ex-employee during the financial year. 
The Independent Directors thank the Chairperson-CEO, Deputy Chairperson/Group Finance 
Director, members of the Group Executive Committee, Sector Heads and members of the 
management team for their openness and co-operation on all matters where their input was 
sought by the Non-Executive Directors. 
N Fonseka 
Senior Independent Director 
21 May 2024
5.3	
 Board Sub-Committees
The Board Sub-Committees play an important 
supervisory and monitoring role by focusing 
on the designated areas of responsibility 
passed to it by the Board. 
For more information refer the Board  
Sub-Committees section - page 224
5.4	
Employee Participation in 
Assurance
The Group is continuously working towards 
introducing innovative and effective 
modes of employee communication and 
employee awareness. The importance of 
communication – top-down, bottom-
up, and lateral – in gaining employee 
commitment to organisational goals has 
been conveyed extensively through various 
communications issued by the Chairperson-
CEO and the management. Whilst employees 
have many opportunities to interact with 
senior management, the Group has created 
the ensuing formal channels for such 
communication through feedback, without 
the risk of reprisal.
	y
Skip level meetings
	y
Exit interviews
	y
360 degree evaluation
	y
Employee surveys
	y
Monthly staff meetings
	y
Chairperson-Direct 
	y
Ombudsperson
	y
Access to Senior Independent Director
	y
Continuous reiteration and the practice of 
the 'Open-Door' policy
Additionally, the Group continued with its 
whistle-blower policy and securities trading 
policy. The Group has witnessed an increased 
level of communication flow from employees. 
Such communication and feedback received 
from the employees by the management 
are recorded, irrespective of the level of 
anonymity, and subsequently discussed and 
followed up, to the extent possible, to ensure 
two-way communication. The respective 
outcomes are duly recorded.

245
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
The Group's Whistle-blower Policy 
provides an effective mechanism for 
employees and other stakeholders 
to report any concerns regarding 
compliance and ethics. The Policy provides 
a transparent and confidential process 
which encourages the reporting of any 
such concerns. The Policy covers the 
reporting process, how such reports will 
be addressed and emphasises that those 
who make a report in good faith under the 
Policy will be protected from retaliation. 
Key aspects of the Policy:
	y
Guidelines on the process through 
which concerns raised will be 
investigated and appropriate 
corrective/preventive action will be 
taken.  
	y
Designated persons to whom reports 
can be made.
	y
Management responses and steps 
taken.
	y
Details of the internal inquiry process.
	y
Maintaining confidentiality.
Whistle-blower Policy
5.5	
Internal Controls
The Board has taken necessary steps to ensure 
the integrity of the Group's accounting and 
financial reporting systems, and internal 
control systems remain robust and effective 
via the review and monitoring of such systems 
on a periodic basis.
5.5.1	 Internal Compliance
A quarterly self-certification programme 
requires the Presidents, Sector Heads and 
Chief Financial Officers of industry groups to 
confirm compliance with statutory and other 
regulatory procedures, and also to identify any 
significant deviations from the expected norms. 
The compliance statement which gets collated 
every quarter and tabled at the respective Audit 
Committee meetings, is subject to periodic 
review and where applicable revised, to reflect 
and capture any material changes that drive 
the macro and micro operating contexts, for 
reporting and monitoring purposes.  
5.5.2	 System of Internal Control
The Board has taken steps to obtain assurance that systems designed to safeguard the Company's 
assets and provide management information are functioning according to expectations and 
proper accounting records are in place through the involvement of the Group Business Process 
Review function.
This also entails automated monitoring and workflow based escalation in order to facilitate 
timely clearing of all transactional entries including complete reconciliation, unreconciled and 
open entries being flagged and periodically scrutinised, and formal disclosure being made to the 
relevant Audit Committees, efficient management and tracking of cash and cheques deposits, in 
line with international best practice and continual streamlining and optimisation of the Internal 
Audit function via identification of focus areas, improvement opportunities and feedback reporting 
in order to reinforce governance and assurance.
The Group has in place two integrated frameworks, the 'Fraud Deterrent and Investigation 
Framework' and the 'Process Review Framework' that complement each other to strengthen the 
Group's effort to promote anti-fraud, anti-corruption and anti-bribery by proactively recognising 
the changing context and operating landscape. The integrated fraud deterrent and investigation 
framework, which enables an integrated platform for handling all aspects of fraud and stakeholder 
assurance, reinforces uniformity across common processes in matters relating to fraud, employs a 
data-driven approach to the continuous assessment of control efficacy and assesses and deploys 
appropriate preventive and detective controls against frauds. The Integrated Process Review 
Framework provides an innovative approach to internal audits which enable audits to be specific 
and highly focused on matters relevant to a business entity. Emphasis is placed on use-cases and 
events stemming from the current business strategy, which must be facilitated by participating 
processes, systems, and personnel which form micro-value chains with special attention to the 
efficacy of control and its placement to ensure the integrity of transactions as each traverse 
through each micro-value chain, at the time of audit reviews.
The digital system for quarterly financial and operational information management implemented, 
continues to perform as per expectations facilitating data capturing for compliance reporting, 
providing a sustainable and structured mechanism to enable top-down and bottom-up stakeholder 
engagement, and tracking the progression of how the compliance posture at an entity level has 
evolved, among others. The Forensic Data Analytics platform feeds into 'Internal Audit Scoping' 
and continues to be used to identify areas for process optimisation, strengthening controls and in 
feedback reporting to reinforce governance (management) and assurance structures.
Initiatives to Strengthen Internal Controls
	y
The Group engaged a leading international consultancy firm to conduct a comprehensive 
assessment of its cybersecurity resilience, leveraging industry-leading methodologies such 
as the Microsoft Cybersecurity Reference Architecture (MCRA) and Microsoft Cloud Security 
Benchmarks (MCSB) to fortify its technological backbone for future growth and resilience. 
By aligning with industry best practice and recommended technological principles, the 
Group aims to enhance performance, scalability, and reliability across its cloud eco-system, 
positioning itself as a mobile-first, data-first, cloud-first, and AI-first organisation. Whilst 
proactively mitigating risk, this initiative was carried out to boost the efficiency, security 
and reliability of the Group's cloud eco-system, underscoring the Group's commitment to 
delivering value to its stakeholders by maintaining robust and secure cloud infrastructure. 
	y
JKH remains steadfast in its commitment to safeguarding stakeholder privacy amidst 
evolving regulations and technological advancements. The establishment of the Data 
Governance Steering Committee, overseen by the Group Executive Committee, aims to 
strengthen data governance practices in compliance with relevant laws, notably the Personal 
Data Protection Act No. 9 of 2022. Key initiatives during the reporting period included:
•	 Benchmarking initiatives
•	 Data lifecycle management
•	 Appointment of data protection officers for each industry group
•	 Gap analysis 
•	 Awareness creation
•	 Integrity in all business and 'public' personal transactions

246 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMENTARY
The risk review programme covering the internal audit of the whole 
Group is outsourced. Reports arising out of such audits are, in the first 
instance, considered and discussed at the business/ functional unit levels 
and, after review by the Sector Head and the President of the industry 
group, are forwarded to the relevant Audit Committee on a regular basis. 
Further, the Audit Committees also assess the effectiveness of the risk 
review process and systems of internal control on a regular basis.
5.5.3	 Segregation of Duties (SoD) under Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX) 
The Group is very much aware of the need to ensure that no individual 
has excessive system access to execute transactions across entire or 
several business processes which have critical approval linkages, in the 
context that increasing use of information technology and integrated 
financial controls creates unintended exposures within the Group. 
SoD dictates that problems such as fraud, material misstatements 
and manipulation of financial statements have the potential to arise 
when the same individual is able to execute two or more conflicting, 
sensitive transactions. Separating disparate jobs into task-oriented roles 
can often result in inefficiencies and costs which do not meet the cost 
versus benefit criteria. Whilst the attainment of a zero SoD conflict state 
is utopian, the Group continues to take steps to identify and evaluate 
existing conflicts and reduce residual risks to an acceptable level under a 
cost versus benefit rationale. No material conflicts were reported during 
the year.
Performance 
Management 
System
Use Case 
(Qualified 
scenario/s): 
Planned/Existing 
events
Benchmarking: 
Assessing 
suitability of 
processes
Focused 
interventions
Degree of 
Process/Systems 
alignment 
(Functional + 
Controls + SoD)
Resulting 
transaction trails
Domain of Frauds
The new internal audit approach: Continuous emphasis on context
Central to this approach: Auditor determines 
how geared the factors of Process, Systems, and 
standard operating procedures are aligned and are 
ready to facilitate predominant use cases [specific 
scenario(s)] that stem from events occurring, 
consequent to the current business strategy.
Prompt active engagement based on 
prioritised remediation for identified 
opportunities for continuous improvement 
of existing processes, systems, standard 
operating procedures and practices.
Transactions resulting from events 
are scrutinised, anomalies identified, 
and root cause (contributory effect 
of Process, Systems, People), and its 
potential impacts to the business are 
prioritised for further deliberation.
Disclosure of a qualified list of 
fraud that the process is assessed 
for its susceptibility and is based 
on authoritative sources such as 
Association of Certified Fraud Examiners 
(ACFE), and amongst others, Global 
knowledge resources of Audit firms.
Top-down assessment: Efficacy of the design 
and placement of Process/functional controls 
are validated/verified and benchmarked with 
contextually relevant best practice.
Bottom-up evaluation : Determine how well 
process controls are enforced by the system(s) in 
use, identify opportunities for process automation 
and optimising enforcement of segregation of 
duties (SoD) to enhance efficiencies.
5.5.4	 Internal Audit 
The ensuing diagram provides a helicopter view of the new Internal 
Audit Approach that has been rolled-out within the Group. Central to 
this approach is the business strategy and how the current processes, 
systems, and people, are geared to efficiently and effectively handle the 
deliverables of the current business strategy at the time of review. The 
outer elements reflect the reporting elements which are noted in audit 
reports, either as observations and/or value-added recommendations.
Whilst there are merits and demerits associated with outsourcing an 
internal audit, the Group is of the view that having an external based 
auditor is more advantageous. However, there are certain industries where 
the domain is very operationally specific and requires an internal auditor in 
addition to the external auditor.
5.5.4.1 Forensic data analytics to identify anomalies and facilitate 
behavioural oversight
Traditionally, internal auditing followed an approach which was 
based on a cyclical process that involves manually identifying control 
objectives, assessing and testing controls, performing tests, and 
sampling only a relatively small population of the dataset to measure 
control effectiveness and operational performance. Today, the Group 
operates in a complex and dynamic business environment where the 
number of transactions has increased exponentially over the years 
and traditional cyclical/sample based internal auditing techniques are 
becoming less effective. As such, the Group continues to use 'big data 
analysis' techniques on the total data using standard deviations, z-scores 
and other statistical measures in establishing real-time, user-friendly 
'outlier identification' and 'early warning triggers'.

247
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
The Group uses forensic data analytics 
to facilitate action towards investigating 
transactions that are distinct within its 
population, based on well-established 
algorithms that prompt attention 
to strengthen process and systems 
controls in ensuring the integrity of such 
transactions within its contextual domain. 
A key success factor of this oversight 
mechanism is the use of advanced 
machine learning algorithms, that are 
continuously sensitised to each business's 
operating circumstances that trigger 
such transactions, and to remain relevant 
and insightful, by increasing its utility and 
providing optimisation opportunities for 
continuous controls monitoring (CCM) 
and active intervention. 
The Group piloted and implemented a 
series of new initiatives throughout the 
year to strengthen the effectiveness of 
the forensic data analytics platform and 
related capabilities to complement CCM 
and internal audit engagements.
Forensic Data Analytics
5.6	
Ombudsperson
An Ombudsperson is available to report 
any complaints from employees of alleged 
violations of the published Code of Conduct 
if the complainant feels that the alleged 
violation has not been addressed satisfactorily 
by the internally available mechanisms.
The findings and the recommendations 
of the Ombudsperson, subsequent to an 
independent inquiry, are confidentially 
communicated to the Chairperson-CEO or to 
the Senior Independent Director upon which 
the involvement duty of the Ombudsperson 
ceases.
On matters referred to him by the 
Ombudsperson, the Chairperson-CEO or the 
Senior Independent Director, as the case may 
be, will place before the Board:
i.	 the decision and the recommendations;
ii.	 action taken based on the 
recommendations;
iii.	 where the Chairperson-CEO or the Senior Independent Director disagrees with any or all of 
the findings and or the recommendations thereon, the areas of disagreement and the reasons, 
thereof.
In situation (iii), the Board is required to consider the areas of disagreement and determine the 
way forward. The Chairperson-CEO or the Senior Independent Director is expected to take such 
steps as are necessary to ensure that the complainant is not victimised, in any manner, for having 
invoked this process. 
The current Ombudsperson is an attorney-of-law by profession.
Mandate and Role 
For purposes of easy reference, the Ombudsperson's mandate and role is set out below: 
(a)	legal and ethical violations of the Code of Conduct for employees, but in an appellate 
capacity, when a satisfactory outcome using existing procedures and processes has not 
resulted or when the matter has been inadequately dealt with; 
(b)	violations referred to above by individuals at the Executive Vice President, President 
and Executive Director levels, including that of the Chairperson-CEO, in which case the 
complainant has the option of either complaining to the Ombudsperson in the first 
instance, or first exhausting the internal remedies;
(c)	sexual harassment, in which event the complainant has the option of either complaining 
to the Ombudsperson in the first instance, or first exhausting the internal remedies.
The mandate excludes disciplinary issues from the Ombudsperson's responsibilities. The right 
to take disciplinary action is vested exclusively in the Chairperson-CEO and those to whom 
this authority has been delegated. 
No issues were raised by any member of the companies covered during the year under 
review. 
Ombudsperson 
31 March 2024
5.7	
External Audit
Ernst & Young are the external auditors of the Company as well as many of the Group companies. 
The individual Group companies also employed KPMG Ford, Rhodes, Thornton & Co, Deloitte 
Partners, and Luthra and Luthra, India as external auditors. The appointment/re-appointment of 
these auditors was recommended by the individual Audit Committees to their respective Boards of 
Directors. 
The Audit Committee, led by the Senior Independent Director and Independent Non-Executive 
Directors of JKH, annually review the appointment of external auditors and recommend the 
appointment of auditors for shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting. They have 
recommended retaining Ernst & Young as the Group lead consolidating auditor given the various 
complexities of the Group and related nuances. The Auditors maintain independence through 
routine rotation of partners. 
The audit fees paid by the Company and Group to its auditors are separately classified in the Notes 
to the Financial Statements of the Annual Report.

248 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMENTARY
6	
GOVERNANCE OUTLOOK AND 
EMERGING CHALLENGES
The need for maintaining a robust and 
well-grounded corporate governance 
framework is vital when operating in a 
dynamic and challenging socio-economic 
environment, exacerbated by global volatility. 
A strong governance mechanism is pivotal 
in enhancing accountability to diverse 
stakeholders, ensuring corporate transparency, 
fair-mindedness and creating sustainable 
value. In this light, the Group will continue 
to stay abreast of governance best practice 
and assess its level of preparedness and its 
capability in meeting and managing evolving 
internal and external challenges. 
The pursuit of continuous improvement in 
governance, emphasis on environmental and 
social considerations, and a call for increased 
accountability and transparency continue 
to influence and shape the role of Board 
governance aspects. It not only mitigates risks 
but also fosters trust, attracts investment, and 
drives sustainable growth. The primary areas of 
focus and challenges, amongst many others, 
being continuously addressed by JKH are 
detailed in the ensuing section. 
6.1	
Board Diversity 
JKH acknowledges the need and value in 
having a diverse Board and is conscious 
of the need to attract appropriately skilled 
Directors who subscribe to its vision, reflect 
and complement its values, and have an 
in-depth understanding of the dynamics 
of its varied business interests. JKH is of 
the view that diversity improves a Board's 
understanding of its vast pool of stakeholders 
and aids the Group in addressing stakeholders' 
expectations in a more responsive manner. In 
this regard, every effort will be made to attract 
suitably qualified personnel from diverse 
demographics, experiences and backgrounds 
whilst maintaining a strong culture of 
meritocracy. 
6.2	
Board Independence 
Board independence is given considerable 
importance by stakeholders, stock exchanges 
and regulatory bodies worldwide. JKH's 
subscribes to the view that, for a Board to be 
effective, companies must take steps, both in 
their structures and nominating procedures, 
to ensure fostering of independent decision-
making and mitigating potential conflicts of 
interest.
When looking at criteria for defining independence of Boards across countries, there is evidence 
that the intended outcome of achieving improved governance and greater independence can 
be achieved through various checks and balances, whilst not compromising on the underlying 
operating model of a corporate. These checks and balances may entail, among others, 
establishment of various assurance mechanisms and the use of systematic and comprehensive 
Board evaluation processes and independent director led engagements. To this end, JKH will 
continue to place emphasis on further augmenting the Board's independence whilst striking a 
balance with the Group's operating model, which addresses the complexities and intricacies of a 
diversified conglomerate setting.
6.3	
Anti-Fraud, Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery
The Group places the utmost importance on ethical practices in all its business operations and has 
promulgated a zero-tolerance policy towards bribery and corruption in all aspects of doing business 
and strives to maintain a culture of transparency and honesty in all its dealings with both internal and 
external stakeholders. The Code of Conduct, anti-fraud, fraud prevention, anti-corruption, anti-bribery, 
anti-money laundering, counter-terrorist financing, gifting, audit and transparency policies, amongst 
many others, outline the principles to which the Group is committed in relation to preventing, 
reporting and managing unethical practices. Accordingly, all forms of fraud and corruption, including, 
but not limited to, theft, embezzlement, overriding controls, giving or receiving kickbacks, facilitation 
payments, bribery, allowing oneself to be placed in situations of conflict of interest and dishonesty in 
financial and non-financial statements is prohibited across the Group.
Furthermore, the Group is continuously engaged in taking steps to strengthen its Code of Conduct 
deviation monitoring and resolution process.
The Group's continuous effort to strengthen transparency in Corporate Reporting is evident by JKH 
being placed first for the fourth consecutive year with a 100% score for transparency in disclosure 
practices in the TRAC Assessment by TISL in 2023.
6.4	
Increasing Emphasis on Environmental, Social and Governance 
(ESG) Aspects
ESG analysis and ESG focused investing continue to gain traction amongst Governments, 
multilateral funding agencies, investment professionals and high net-worth investors, given the 
aim of reducing negligent and irresponsible corporate behaviour that may have an adverse impact 
on the environment, infringe on human rights, and foster corruption and bribery, among others. 
Implementing effective ESG policies and practices is crucial for companies not only to attract talent 
and retain employee loyalty but also for its long-term survival and sustainable growth.
JKH is of the view that emphasis on ESG fosters a 360-degree analysis of performance and enables 
a sustainable business model, which can derive value to all stakeholders. Various measures have 
been, and are, in place, to ensure a holistic view of performance including managing scarce 
natural resources, mitigating impact of the Group's businesses on the environment, enhancing the 
well-being of all stakeholders, and ensuring effective governance mechanisms. Such metrics are 
revisited regularly during decision-making. The Group will stay abreast and, where possible, ahead 
of developments in this regard and continue to integrate ESG elements with business strategy, 
operations and in reporting.  
As a part of its continuous efforts towards increasing emphasis and focus on ESG aspects, the 
Group, along with an international consulting firm, conducted an in-depth study within each 
industry group to identify material ESG topics. Benchmarking studies were conducted across the 
businesses to assess their ESG performance vis-à-vis industry leaders. Stakeholder engagement 
sessions were also held with both internal and external stakeholders to gather insights. These 
efforts culminated in the determination of material ESG topics for each industry group. 
The International Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB) released its first set of standards, IFRS S1 and 
IFRS S2, in June 2023. IFRS S1 focuses on the general requirements for disclosing sustainability-
related financial information, while IFRS S2 details climate-specific disclosures. During the year, CA 
Sri Lanka issued the localised standard based on IFRS S1 and S2, designated as SLFRS S1 and S2. 
The standards will be effective from 1 January 2025. A comprehensive roadmap has been initiated 
to assess alignment with the new standard to review processes and disclosures required. 

249
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
6.5	
Continual Strengthening of Internal Controls 
Augmenting transactional and financial internal controls with operational aspects, in line 
with international best practice, remains a medium-term priority for the Group. Continuous 
strengthening of internal controls through a structured process that optimises and facilitates 
process audit information, lifecycle management and related processes are expected to: 
	y
eliminate inefficiencies inherent in manual processes.
	y
provide a platform based on process enforcement.
	y
enable management follow-up based on centrally held data in a compliance repository.
	y
identify trends, action taken, effectiveness and opportunities for process improvement by 
analysing movement of the compliance posture. 
	y
strengthen the Group's ability to prevent and detect fraud.
	y
leverage data analytics and technology to raise alerts.
Refer Section 5.5.2 of this Commentary for initiatives during the year aimed at strengthening internal 
controls - page 245
6.6	
Digital Oversight and Cyber Security
Whilst the rapidly advancing nature of technology and the continual integration of the Group's 
operations with technological progress has enhanced and streamlined processes and controls 
across the Group and opened up opportunities, it has resulted in increased vulnerability for the 
Group from a digital standpoint. As a result, the Board places significant emphasis on ensuring that 
the Group's soft and hard infrastructure is designed in a manner, and adequate, to deal with and 
prevent potential breaches. Data protection and cyber security are regularly addressed during the 
Risk Management and Audit Committee meetings and periodically discussed at a Board level.
6.7	
Data Protection, Information Management and Adoption 
The presence of continuously evolving IT infrastructure and platforms to meet requirements of 
day-to-day business, continues to augur well for the Group. Given the emergence of regulations 
such as the European Union General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the Sri Lankan 
Personal Data Protection Act No. 9 of 2022, data security, integrity and information management 
has become pivotal. In addition to this, the Group's initiatives on advanced data analytics also 
necessitate an established governance framework to manage the flow of data. To this end, 
the Group will continue to strengthen its data governance structure to ensure ownership and 
accountability of clearly articulated data governance policies and processes and Group-wide data 
quality standards. 
6.8	
Greater Employee Involvement in Governance 
Whilst all necessary compliance and assurance frameworks are believed to be in place, JKH 
recognises the pivotal role played by employees in reinforcing an effective governance system 
across the Group. JKH will continue to encourage greater employee participation through: 
	y
ongoing training and refreshers on the Code of Conduct and related governance policies, 
including non-discrimination, anti-corruption and anti-bribery.
	y
a further strengthened performance management process, which envisages continuous 
feedback and greater engagement via employee information systems. 
	y
engagement and empowerment via greater delegation of authority. 
	y
increased communication and collaboration. 
	y
adoption of differentiated means of communication based on the demographical dynamics of 
employee segments. 
6.9	
Need for Increased Transparency
Ensuring transparency is a continually evolving 
journey given progressing regulations, 
advancements in global best practice and 
complex stakeholder needs. Staying abreast 
of internally accepted best practice and 
continuously challenging the status quo 
is vital in this journey of being transparent. 
Additionally, transparency and accountability 
in reporting foster a foundation of trust 
with stakeholders which improves the 
credibility of the organisation, whilst also 
strengthening an organisation's legitimacy 
and reputation. Openly reporting on 
activities and challenges builds public trust 
and demonstrates a commitment to ethical 
practices. In today's information age, such 
aspects will aid organisations in differentiating 
themselves from a stakeholder's point of view, 
including attracting investment so long as 
the information is relevant to the stakeholder 
and does not create information overload 
where the material information may lose the 
perspective and attention it warrants.
In an organisation's journey towards 
transparency, the Government and regulatory 
bodies also need to play a pivotal role in 
ensuring the required foundations and criteria 
for good governance are advocated and put 
in place. Hence, it is vital for the regulatory 
frameworks of the country to evolve as 
corporates cannot operate in isolation within 
the eco-system. For instance, Transparency 
International, including its local counterpart, 
Transparency International Sri Lanka advocates 
for the disclosure of Ultimate Beneficial 
Owners (UBO) of corporates. However, 
collating information on ultimate beneficial 
owners of entities is not possible as the 
country's regulations do not require this to 
be disclosed when purchasing shares in the 
Colombo Stock Exchange, and a listed entity 
cannot compile this information in isolation.  

250 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMENTARY
7	
COMPLIANCE SUMMARY
The Board, through its operating structures, strived to ensure that the Company and all its subsidiaries and associates complied with the laws and 
regulations of the countries they operated in. Accordingly, the Group complied with all applicable laws and regulations of the countries it operates in, 
including anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws.
The Board of Directors also took all reasonable steps in ensuring that all financial statements were prepared in accordance with the Sri Lanka 
Accounting Standards (SLFRS/ LKAS) issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka) and the requirements of the CSE 
and other applicable authorities. Information contained in the financial statements of the Annual Report is supplemented by a detailed Management 
Discussion and Analysis which explains to shareholders the strategic, operational, investment, sustainability and risk related aspects of the Company, 
and the means by which value is created and how it is translated into the reported financial performance and is likely to influence future results.
7.1	
Statement of Compliance under Section 7.6 of the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) on Annual Report 
Disclosures
MANDATORY PROVISIONS - FULLY COMPLIANT
Rule 
Compliance 
Status 
Reference (within the 
JKH Annual Report) 
 (i) 
Names of persons who were Directors of the Company 
Yes 
Corporate Governance 
Commentary 
 (ii) 
Principal activities of the entity and its subsidiaries during the year, and any changes therein 
Yes 
Management Discussion 
and Analysis 
 (iii) 
The names and the number of shares held by the 20 largest holders of voting and non-
voting shares and the percentage of such shares held 
Yes 
Share Information
 (iv)
a) The float adjusted market capitalisation, public holding percentage (%), number of public 
shareholders and under which option the Listed Entity complies with the Minimum Public 
Holding requirement
Yes
The public holding percentage in respect of non-voting Shares (where applicable)
Not Applicable
b) The public holding percentage in respect of Foreign Currency denominated Shares
Not Applicable
 (v) 
A statement of each Director's holding and CEO's holding in shares of the Entity at the 
beginning and end of each financial year 
Yes 
 (vi) 
Information pertaining to material foreseeable risk factors of the Entity 
Yes 
Risk, Opportunities and 
Internal Controls 
(vii) 
Details of material issues pertaining to employees and industrial relations of the Entity 
Yes 
Stakeholder Engagement 
and Determining 
Materiality
 (viii) 
Extents, locations, valuations and the number of buildings of the Entity's land holdings and 
investment properties 
Yes 
Group Real Estate Portfolio 
 (ix) 
Number of shares representing the Entity's stated capital 
Yes 
Share Information 
 (x) 
A distribution schedule of the number of holders in each class of equity securities, and the 
percentage of their total holdings 
Yes 
 (xi) 
Financial ratios and market price information 
Yes 
 (xii) 
Significant changes in the Company's or its subsidiaries' fixed assets, and the market value 
of land, if the value differs substantially from the book value  
Yes 
Notes to the Financial 
Statements 
 (xiii) 
Details of funds raised through a public issue, rights issue and a private placement during 
the year 
Yes 
Share Information 
 (xiv) 
Information in respect of Employee Share Ownership or Stock Option Schemes 
Yes 
 (xv) 
Disclosures pertaining to Corporate Governance practices in terms of Section 9 of the 
Listing Rules 
Yes 
Corporate Governance 
Commentary/Note 44 of 
the Notes to the Financial 
Statements
 (xvi) 
Related Party transactions exceeding 10% of the equity or 5% of the total assets of the 
Entity as per audited financial statements, whichever is lower 
Yes 
(xvii) to 
(xxi)
Disclosures pertaining to Foreign Currency denominated Securities, Sustainable Bonds, 
Perpetual debt Securities. Infrastructure Bonds and/or Shariah Compliant Debt Securities 
listed on the CSE
Not Applicable

251
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
7.2	
Statement of Compliance with Section 7.10 of the Listing Rules of the CSE on Corporate Governance
MANDATORY PROVISIONS - FULLY COMPLIANT 
CSE Rule
Compliance
Status
JKH Action / Reference (within the Report)
7.10.1 Non-Executive Directors (NED)
a/b/c
At least 2 members or 1/3 of the Board, whichever 
is higher should be NEDs
Yes
Five out of seven Board members are NEDs. The JKH Group is 
conscious of the need to maintain an appropriate mix of skills 
and experience on the Board and to refresh progressively its 
composition over time.
7.10.2 Independent Directors
a
2 or 1/3 of NEDs, whichever is higher shall be 
'independent'
Yes
All NEDs are Independent.
b
Each NED to submit a signed and dated 
declaration of his/her independence or non-
independence
Yes
Independence of the Directors has been determined in accordance 
with CSE Listing Rules and where relevant, Board determinations 
made. The five independent NEDs have submitted signed 
declarations confirming independence.
7.10.5 Remuneration Committee
a (1)
Remuneration Committee shall comprise of NEDs, 
a majority of whom will be independent
Yes
The Human Resources and Compensation Committee (equivalent 
of the Remuneration Committee with a wider scope) only 
comprises of Independent NEDs.
7.10.6 Audit Committee
a (1)
Audit Committee (AC) shall comprise of NEDs, a 
majority of whom should be independent
Yes
The Audit Committee comprises only of Independent NEDs.
a (2)
A NED shall be the Chairman of the committee
Yes
The Chairperson of the Audit Committee is the Senior Independent 
NED.
a (3)
CEO and CFO should attend AC meetings, unless 
otherwise determined by AC
Yes
The Chairperson-CEO, Group Finance Director, Group Financial 
Controller and the External Auditors attended most parts of the AC 
meetings by invitation. 
a (4)
The Chairman of the AC or one member should 
be a member of a recognised professional 
accounting body
Yes
One of the members of the AC is a member of a recognised 
professional accounting body.
b
Functions of the AC 
Yes
Refer Audit Committee section.
b (1)
Overseeing of the preparation, presentation 
and adequacy of disclosures in the financial 
statements in accordance with SLFRS/LKAS
Yes
The AC assists the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities for 
the integrity of the financial statements of the Company and the 
Group. 
b (2)
Overseeing the compliance with financial 
reporting requirements, information requirements 
as per laws and related regulations and 
requirements
Yes
The AC has the overall responsibility for overseeing the preparation 
of financial statements in accordance with the laws and regulations 
of the country and also recommending to the Board, on the 
adoption of best accounting policies. 
b (3)
Overseeing the process to ensure that the internal 
and risk management controls, are adequate, to 
meet the requirements of the SLFRS/LKAS
Yes
The AC assesses the role and the effectiveness of the Group 
Business Process Review division which is largely responsible for 
internal control and risk management.
b (4)
Assessment of the independence and 
performance of the Entity's External Auditors
Yes
The AC assesses the external auditor's performance, qualifications 
and independence.
b (5)
Make recommendations to the Board pertaining 
to External Auditors
Yes
The Committee is responsible for recommending the appointment, 
re-appointment or removal of External Auditors and also providing 
recommendations on remuneration and terms of Engagement.
c (1)
Names of the Audit Committee members shall be 
disclosed
Yes
Refer Board Sub-Committees section.
c (2)
Audit Committee shall make a determination of 
the independence of the external auditors
Yes
Refer Report of the Audit Committee.
c (3)
Report on the manner in which Audit Committee 
carried out its functions and manner of 
compliance of Company in relation to the above
Yes

252 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMENTARY
7.3	
Statement of Compliance under Section 9 of the Revised Listing Rules of the CSE on Corporate Governance, effective as 
at 1 April 2024. 
MANDATORY PROVISIONS - FULLY COMPLIANT 
CSE Rule
Compliance
Status
JKH Action / Reference (within the Report)
9.1 Corporate Governance Rules
9.1.3
A statement confirming compliance with Corporate 
Governance Rules
Yes
The Group is in compliance with the Corporate Governance Rules 
and has stated so within the Report with any deviations explained 
where applicable.
9.3 Board Committees
9.3.1 
b/c/d
Minimum required Board Committees
Yes
The required Committees are maintained and are functioning 
effectively.
9.3.2
Compliance with the composition, responsibilities 
and disclosures required in respect of the Board 
Committees
Yes
The Group is in compliance with the requirements in respect of the 
Board Committees.
9.4 Meeting procedures and the conduct of all General Meetings with shareholders
9.4.1
Records of all resolutions and the following 
information upon a resolution being considered at 
any General Meeting shall be maintained
Yes
The Group maintains all records and information regarding 
resolutions considered at General Meetings.
9.4.2 
a/b/c
Communication and relations with shareholders 
and investors
Yes
Refer section 4.6 of the Commentary – Stakeholder Management 
and Effective Communication.
9.6 Chairperson and CEO
9.6.1
Requirement for a SID if the positions of 
Chairperson and CEO are held by the same 
individual
Yes
A SID has been appointed by the Group considering the combined 
role of Chairperson/CEO. In line with the revised CSE Listing Rules, a 
market announcement was made to disclose that the Chairperson 
of the Company is an Executive Director, and that the Chairperson 
and Chief Executive Officer positions of the Company are held by 
the same individual. The Company has elected to comply with the 
alternative option provided under Section 9.6.1 and Section 9.6.3 
of the Listing Rules, with the appointment of a Senior Independent 
Director.
9.6.2
Market announcement on the rationale behind the 
appointment of a SID
Yes
9.6.3 a-d
Requirement for a SID
Yes 
9.6.3 e
SID shall make a signed explanatory disclosure 
demonstrating the effectiveness of their duties
Yes
Refer section 5.2 of the Commentary – Senior Independent 
Director.
9.6.4
Rationale for the appointment of a SID set out in 
the Annual Report
Yes
Considering the combined role of the Chairperson-CEO, the 
presence of the Senior Independent Director is important in 
ensuring that no one person has unfettered decision-making 
powers, and that matters discussed at the Board level are done 
so in an environment which facilitates independent thought by 
individual Directors.
9.7 Fitness of Directors and CEO
9.7.1-
9.7.5
Requirement to meet the fit and proper criteria 
stipulated by the CSE and related disclosures
Yes
Directors are required to provide general disclosures and 
declarations on fitness and propriety annually and are required to 
report any material changes to the information provided therein, 
including any changes to their professional responsibilities and 
business associations, to the Board.
The Nominations Committees reviews and makes 
recommendation to the Board on the fitness and propriety of 
Directors.
No non-compliances were reported during the year in this regard.
9.8 Board Composition
9.8.3 (i) 
to (viii)
Requirements for meeting the criteria to be an ID
Yes
Details of the independence criteria are explained within the 
Corporate Governance Commentary.
9.8.5 
a/b/c
The Board shall annually determine the 
independence or otherwise of IDs and name the 
Directors who are determined to be 'independent'
Yes
All independent NEDs have submitted declarations as to their 
independence, and a determination of their independence is 
evaluated.

253
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
CSE Rule
Compliance
Status
JKH Action / Reference (within the Report)
9.9 Alternate Directors
a-e
Appointment of Alternate Directors to be in 
accordance with the Rules and such requirements 
to be incorporated into the Articles of Association
Yes 
No Alternate Directors appointed during the financial year.
CSE has granted a waiver to amend the Articles of Association to 
incorporate the requirements of the Rules at an EGM to be held on 
28 June 2024.
9.10 Disclosures relating to Directors 
9.10.2/ 
9.10.3
Market announcement upon the appointment 
of a new director and any changes to the Board 
composition
Yes
Timely market announcement of the new independent NED 
appointed was made through the CSE.
9.10.4 
a-i
Details in relation to the Board members 
Yes
Refer Board Profiles and Details in Respect of Directors sections.
9.12 Remuneration Committee 
9.12.3
The Remuneration Committee shall establish and 
maintain a formal and transparent procedure for 
developing policy on EDs and individual Directors
Yes 
The remuneration of the Executive Directors are determined as per 
the remuneration principles of the Group and recommended by 
the Human Resources and Compensation Committee.
9.12.4
Remuneration for NEDs shall be based on a policy 
of non-discriminatory pay practices to ensure the 
independence
Yes 
Refer Director Remuneration section.
9.12.5
The Remuneration Committee shall have written 
terms of reference clearly defining its scope, 
authority, duties and matters pertaining to the 
quorum of meetings
Yes
Refer Human Resources and Compensation Committee section.
9.12.6 
(2)
Where the parent company and the subsidiary are 
Listed Entities, the Remuneration Committee of the 
parent company may function as the Remuneration 
Committee of the subsidiary
Yes
9.12.6 
(3)
An ID shall be appointed as the Chairperson of the 
Remuneration Committee
 Yes
9.12.7
Functions 
Yes
9.12.8 a
Names of Remuneration Committee Chairperson 
and members
Yes 
9.12.8 b
Statement of Remuneration policy
Yes 
9.12.8 c
Aggregate remuneration paid to EDs and NEDs
Yes 
9.13 Audit Committee
9.13.2
The Audit Committee shall have written terms of 
reference clearly defining its scope, authority and 
duties
Yes
Refer Audit Committee section. 
9.14 Related Party Transactions Review Committee
9.14.2 
(1)
Related Party Transactions Review Committee shall 
comprise of a minimum of 3 members, majority of 
whom should be IDs and an ID shall be appointed 
as the Chairperson
Yes 
The Related Party Transactions Committee comprises only of 
Independent Directors and maintained the minimum requirement 
of three members throughout the year. 
9.14.2 
(2)
Where the parent company and the subsidiary 
are Listed Entities, the Related Party Transactions 
Review Committee of the parent company may 
function as the Related Party Transactions Review 
Committee of the subsidiary
Yes
Refer Related Party Transactions Review Committee section.
9.14.3
Functions
Yes 
9.14.4
General Requirements
Yes
9.14.5
Review of Related Party Transactions by the Related 
Party Transactions Review Committee
Yes

254 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMENTARY
CSE Rule
Compliance
Status
JKH Action / Reference (within the Report)
9.14.6
Shareholder Approval
Yes
Refer Extraordinary General Meetings, including Shareholder 
Approval through Special Resolution section.
9.14.8 
(1)
Details pertaining to Non-Recurrent Related Party 
Transactions
Yes
Refer Notes to the Financial Statements.
9.14.8 
(2)
Details pertaining to Recurrent Related Party 
Transactions
Yes 
9.14.8 (3)
Report of the Related Party Transactions Review 
Committee
Yes 
Refer Report of the Related Party Transactions Review Committee.
9.14.8 
(4)
Declaration by the Board of Directors as an 
affirmative statement of compliance with the 
rules pertaining to Related Party Transactions, or a 
negative statement otherwise
Yes
Refer Annual Report of the Board of Directors.
9.14.9 
(1)/(2)
Shareholder approval for acquisition and disposal of 
substantial assets 
Yes
Refer Extraordinary General Meetings, including Shareholder 
Approval through Special Resolution section. 
9.14.9 (4)/
(5)/ (6)
Competent independent advice on acquisition and 
disposal of substantial asset
Yes
There were no acquisition and disposal of substantial assets during 
the year 2023/24.
9.16 Additional Disclosures
(i)
Directors have disclosed all material interests in 
contracts and have refrained from voting when 
materially involved
Yes 
Directors make a disclosure of interests at appointment, at the 
beginning of every financial year and during the year as required.
(ii)
Directors have conducted a review of the internal 
controls and obtained reasonable assurance of their 
effectiveness and adherence
Yes 
Board takes steps to ensure the integrity of internal control systems 
remain effective via the review and monitoring of such systems on 
a periodic basis. 
(iii)
Directors are aware of laws, rules and regulations 
and their changes particularly to Listing Rules and 
applicable capital market provisions
Yes 
Refer Board Induction and Training section.
(iv)
Disclosure of material non-compliance with laws/
regulations and fines by relevant authorities where 
the Entity operates
Yes
During the year under review, there were no material fines 
incurred, with a total of 17 fines amounting to Rs.1.2 million. This 
contrasts with the previous year 2022/23, which recorded 67 fines 
totalling Rs.1.5 million.
7.4	
Statement of Compliance pertaining to the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007
MANDATORY PROVISIONS - FULLY COMPLIANT 
Section 
Compliance
Status
Reference (within the Report) 
168 (1) (a) 
The nature of the business of the Company or subsidiaries or classes of 
business in which it has an interest together with any change thereto  
Yes 
Group Directory 
168 (1) (b) Signed financial statements of the Group and the Company  
Yes 
Financial Statements   
168 (1) (c) 
Auditors' Report on financial statements  
Yes 
Independent Auditors' Report   
168 (1) (d) Accounting policies and any changes thereto 
Yes 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
168 (1) (e) 
Particulars of the entries made in the Interests Register  
Yes 
Annual Report of the Board of Directors  
168 (1) (f) 
Remuneration and other benefits paid to Directors of the Company  
Yes 
Notes to the Financial Statements  
168 (1) (g) Corporate donations made by the Company  
Yes 
Notes to the Financial Statements  
168 (1) (h) Information on the Directorate of the Company and its subsidiaries 
during and at the end of the accounting period 
Yes 
Group Directory  
168 (1) (i) 
Amounts paid/payable to the External Auditor as audit fees and fees 
for other services rendered  
Yes 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
168 (1) (j) 
Auditors' relationship or any interest with the Company and its Subsidiaries 
Yes 
Report of the Audit Committee / Financial 
Statements  
168 (1) (k) 
Acknowledgement of the contents of this Report and signatures on 
behalf of the Board 
Yes 
Financial Statements / Annual Report of the 
Board of Directors  
168 (2) 
Information specified in paragraphs (b) to (j) of subsection (1) in 
relation to Subsidiaries
Yes  
Financial Statements / Annual Report of the 
Board of Directors 

255
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
	y
Interim and other price sensitive and statutorily mandated reports are disclosed to Regulators. As evident from the Annual Report of the Board of 
Directors, the company carried out all business in accordance with regulations and applicable laws, equitably and fairly.
	y
The Company continues to be a going concern and remedial action for any material events is in place. All related party transactions are reported under 
the Notes to the Financial Statements.
	y
There is an annual review of the effectiveness of the Group's risk management and internal controls which ensures the maintenance of a sound system of 
internal control which is reported on under the Internal Controls section.
	y
The Internal Audit function and the Audit Committee, functions as stipulated by the Code, and are discussed under the Audit Committee section.
	y
A Related Party Transactions Review Committee is in place and functions in line with the Code.
	y
There were no violations of the Group Code of Conduct and the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics during the year, which is mentioned under the 
Chairperson's Message section.
7.5	
Code of Best Practice of Corporate Governance 2017 Issued by CA Sri Lanka
VOLUNTARY PROVISIONS 
The Company is compliant with almost the full 2017 Code of Best Practice on Corporate Governance issued by the CA Sri Lanka to the extent of 
business exigency and as required by the Group.
	y
The Company is directed, controlled and lead by an effective Board that possess the skills, experience and knowledge and thus all Directors bring 
independent judgement on various subjects, particularly financial acumen.
	y
Combining the roles of Chairperson and CEO is justified given the nature of the Group, at this juncture. The Chairperson-CEO is appraised annually.
	y
Board Balance is maintained as the Code stipulates.
	y
Given the combined role of Chairperson and CEO, the Group has a Senior Independent Director.
	y
Whilst there is a transparent procedure for Board Appointments, election and re-election, subject to shareholder approval, takes place at regular intervals.
	y
Specified information regarding Directors is shared in the Corporate Governance Commentary.
	y
The Human Resource and Compensation Committee, consisting of exclusively NEDs is responsible for determining the remuneration of Chairperson-CEO 
and EDs.
	y
ED compensation includes performance related elements in the pay structure. Compensation commitments in the event of early termination, determination of NED 
remuneration, remuneration policy and aggregate remuneration paid is disclosed under Section 3.1.12 and is in line with the Code.
	y
There is constructive use of the AGM, as per Code. Notice of Meeting, with adequate details, is circulated to shareholders as per statute.
	y
 The Group has in place multiple channels to reach shareholders as discussed under Section 4.5.1.
	y
The Company conducts regular and structured dialogue with shareholders based on a mutual understanding of objectives. This is done via the Investor 
Relations team and through the AGM.
	y
Individual shareholders investing directly in shares of the Company are encouraged to carry out adequate analysis and seek independent advice in all 
investing and/or divesting decisions. They are encouraged to participate at the AGM and exercise their voting rights and seek clarity, whenever required.
	y
 ESG (environmental, social, and governance) is a pivotal consideration in the Group's decision-making. In reporting performance, the Annual Report 
covers ESG disclosures through the <IR> framework, GRI standards and operations in conformity with the Principles of the United Nations Global 
Compact and United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.
	y
The Board has prioritised cybersecurity by appointing a dedicated member responsible for overseeing it within the Group. The Company has implemented 
a group policy, conduct periodic reviews to ensure its effectiveness, discuss cybersecurity risks at the board level, and disclose the management of risks in 
the Annual Report. Furthermore, measures have been taken to secure connectivity for both internal and external devices.
Directors
Directors' Remuneration
Relationship with Shareholders
Institutional Investors
Other Investors
Sustainability
Internet and Cybersecurity
Accountability and Audit
7.6	
Code of Best Practice on Corporate Governance (2023) issued by CA Sri Lanka
CA Sri Lanka issued a revised Code of Best Practice on Corporate Governance in December 2023, effective from 1 April 2024. While the Group has 
presented its compliance in line with the 2017 Code of Best Practice on Corporate Governance, The Group has reviewed the 2023 Code for further 
adoption, as applicable, and relevant to the Group.

256 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
	y
Meet requirements for products and 
services
	y
Ensure high quality and safe 
products and services
	y
Environmentally and socially 
responsible products and services
	y
Provide a safe and enabling 
environment
	y
Ensure equal opportunity within a 
meritocratic culture
	y
Enhancement of skills and 
knowledge, continuous engagement
	y
Work-life balance
	y
Stimulate local economy through 
procurement
	y
Provide direct and indirect 
employment
	y
Operations with minimal impact on 
shared natural resources
Customers  
individual, corporate B2B
Growth of business and brands
Employees  
directors, executives,  
non-executives
Human Capital and productivity
Community  
neighbours, community, 
community leaders, society
Social license to operate
A
Road shows, trade fairs and field visits
B
One-on-one meetings, discussion forums, progress 
reviews
Q
Customer satisfaction surveys
O
Information dissemination through printed reports, 
telephone, SMS, e-mail, corporate website, workshops 
and business development activities
A
Employee satisfaction surveys, Group-wide year 
end get-together
B
Performance reviews, skip level meetings
Q
Intranet communications
O
Training and development, team building, joint 
consultative committees, open door policy, sports 
events, Corporate Social Responsibility programmes
On
Community engagement prior to entry and on exit 
via one-on-one meetings, workshops, forums
M
Regular engagement while operating via one-on-
one meetings, workshops, forums
O
Corporate Social Responsibility programmes
A   Annually 
 
B   Biannually 
 
Q   Quarterly 
 
O   Ongoing 
 
On  One-off 
 
M   Monthly 
 
R   Regular
Stakeholder Expectations:
Stakeholder Expectations:
Stakeholder Expectations:
Significance of Stakeholder:
Significance of Stakeholder:
Significance of Stakeholder:
Methods of Engagement:
Methods of Engagement:
Methods of Engagement:
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
ENGAGEMENT OF SIGNIFICANT 
STAKEHOLDERS 
The Group is committed to sharing its sustainability 
ambitions with its various stakeholder groups and values 
input from them. While maintaining clearly set objectives 
based on the various goals and targets, the Group has 
committed to in the short, medium and the long-term, 
working towards fulfilling these objectives remain a key 
priority. 
The Group's stakeholders have been identified as those 
who have significant influence over or who are significantly 
affected by the Group's operations. Given the diverse 
operations in several industry groups over varied geographical 
markets, the Group's interacts with a wide range of 
stakeholders who represent the communities and regions 
within which it operates. 
Identify 
stakeholders
Mapping and 
prioritising 
stakeholders
Stakeholder 
engagement
Feedback
The Group identifies its internal stakeholders as its business units and employees 
whilst its external stakeholders are made up of shareholders, investors, lenders, 
customers, suppliers and value chain, business partners, Government and regulatory 
authorities, peers, pressure groups, media, and the community.
The Group has established a number of different platforms for dialogue and 
communication to incorporate stakeholder perspectives and concerns into the 
Group's policies and commitments. The mechanisms by which the Group manages 
and conducts its engagement with significant stakeholders on an ongoing basis, 
include formal and informal consultations, participation, negotiations, communication, 
mandatory and voluntary disclosures, certification and accreditation. 
The Group is committed to sharing its sustainability 
ambitions with its various stakeholder groups and 
values input from them.
In-depth stakeholder engagement with independent third party consultant carried 
out to identify new material topics and to measure performance on current ones

257
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
	y
Long-term business relation and 
adherence to contractual obligations
	y
Knowledge sharing
	y
Representation in business councils 
and committees
	y
Consistent economic performance
	y
Economic value generation
	y
Contribute to economy through 
strategic investments
	y
Create direct and indirect 
employment
	y
Timely payment of taxes and levies
	y
Compliance with laws and 
regulations
	y
Practice sound corporate 
governance
	y
Ethical business practices
	y
Participation in business councils 
and committees
	y
Operate in accordance to social 
norms, cultures with minimal 
negative social and environmental 
impact
	y
Adhere to laws and regulations
	y
Operate as a responsible corporate 
citizen
Business partners, principals, 
suppliers 
Inputs for goods and services
Institutional investors, fund 
managers, analysts, leaders, 
multilateral lenders 
Growth and equity
Government, Government 
institutions and departments
Provision of trading conditions
Legal and regulatory bodies
License to operate
Industry peers and competition
Collaboration and fair trading 
conditions
Society, media, pressure 
groups, NGOs, environmental 
groups
License to operate
A
Distributor conferences, contract renegotiations 
and reviews, road shows, supplier assessments, 
supplier fora
Q
Supplier review meetings
R
Market reports
O
Conference calls, e-mails, circulars, corporate 
website and sourcing, contracting and supplier 
management platform
A
Annual reports, disclosures and reviews
Q
Quarterly reports
R
Investor road shows
O
Phone calls, e-mail, written communication, 
websites, one-on-one meetings
Q
Participation of senior management in chambers 
and industry associations
O
Meetings, business forums, newsletters, circulars, 
presentations and briefings, advisory meetings of 
industry associates
Q
Participation of senior management in chambers 
and industry associations
O
Meetings, periodic disclosures, correspondence
Q
Participation of senior management in chambers 
and industry associations
R
Membership of trade associations, conferences, 
discussion forums
O
Website, press releases, media briefings, 
correspondence
A   Annually 
 
B   Biannually 
 
Q   Quarterly 
 
O   Ongoing 
 
On  One-off 
 
M   Monthly 
 
R   Regular
Stakeholder Expectations:
Stakeholder Expectations:
Stakeholder Expectations:
Stakeholder Expectations:
Stakeholder Expectations:
Stakeholder Expectations:
Significance of Stakeholder:
Significance of Stakeholder:
Significance of Stakeholder:
Significance of Stakeholder:
Significance of Stakeholder:
Significance of Stakeholder:
Methods of Engagement:
Methods of Engagement:
Methods of Engagement:
Methods of Engagement:
Methods of Engagement:
Methods of Engagement:

258 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
DETERMINING MATERIALITY
The Group conducts comprehensive 
materiality assessments annually, in 
collaboration with various sectors to 
assess and monitor progress against key 
sustainability concerns.
IMPROVEMENTS CARRIED OUT TO THE MATERIALITY 
ASSESSMENT PROCESS
Double materiality: During the year under review, the Group 
implemented a double materiality process, which assesses both 
positive and negative impacts, as well as potential and actual 
implications on the organisation, the environment, and people, 
including their human rights. 
To enhance the clarity of the Group's material matters, the topics 
identified in the previous years under overarching materiality 
themes were consolidated. These themes will serve as the verticals 
within the Group's ESG framework, encompassing Environmental 
(E), Social (S), and Governance (G) considerations.
Materiality analysis is one of the vital processes that the Group uses 
to define key triple bottom line matters that are of significance to the 
business and its internal and external stakeholders. Through this process, 
the Group identifies short, medium, and long-terms goals, processes 
and interventions aimed at addressing Group and stakeholder concerns.  
The Group annually carries out a comprehensive materiality assessment 
internally with the engagement of the sectors to assess and understand 
the progress of the goals and targets set against the key sustainability 
concerns. Additionally, a comprehensive stakeholder engagement survey 
is carried out every two years with the aid of an independent third party, 
to assess the impacts of the ongoing activities and engagement of the 
Group through how it has performed against the material topics and to 
understand if the landscape of the material topics has changed. 
As part of the Group's ongoing efforts to further enhance its ESG strategy 
framework, an extensive materiality assessment was conducted within 
each sector, guided by an international third-party consultant. Through 
the engagement of key internal and external stakeholders, facilitated 
the identification of crucial environmental, social, and governance (ESG) 
topics at the sector level. Furthermore, an extensive desktop review 
was carried out for each of the sectors against selected peers of each 
industry group who are considered leaders in ESG performance. The 
combined set of information was shared to each of the sector teams for 
thorough review. A series of sector level ambition setting workshops 
were carried out by the Group Sustainability team facilitated by a third 
party consultant with the participation of each of the sector's leadership 
and representation from the centre functions, leading to the finalisation 
of material topics that would shape sector-level ambitions.
Additionally, the consolidated material topics at the Group level, alongside 
the results of an in-depth peer review was discussed at a Group level 
ambition setting workshop which engaged the entire Group's leadership 
including the Chairperson, Deputy Chairperson and the members of the 
Group Executive Committee (GEC), alongside cross functional leadership 
team representing all sectors as well as the Group's centre functions. 
This iterative process resulted in the formulation of Group-level Environmental, 
Social, and Governance (ESG) ambitions, cascaded down to the sectors 
alongside separate sector-level ambitions to address these material topics.
Results of assessment
Sector Materiality 
Assessment
Sector 
Leadership
Sector Level 
Peer Review
Group 
Representation
GEC
Cross 
Functional 
Cross Sectorial 
Leadership
Leadership 
Representing 
Centre 
Functions
Aggregated Results of 
Sector Materiality
Sector Report
Group Level 
Peer Review
Sector ESG 
Ambitions
Group ESG 
Ambitions
Group Report
Determination of 
Sector Material Topics
Determination of 
Group Material Topics
Sector Ambition 
Workshop
Group Ambition 
Setting Workshop
Internal
External
	y All mid-junior management 
level Employees
	y 100% of board and sector 
management
	y Suppliers/Vendors
	y Customers
	y Investors
	y Community
	y Regulators
Stakeholder 
Engagement 
Study
Questionnaire with relevant sector specific indicators
Environmental
Social
Governance
Process applicable for 
each Industry Group
Process applicable at 
the Group level

259
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Key Material topics for 2023/24
2023/24
2022/23
1
Business conduct and ethics
Anti-corruption
Brand communication effectiveness (ethical marketing and communication)
2
Corporate governance
Regulatory compliance 
Economic performance
3
Occupational health and safety
Employee health and safety
4
GHG emissions within the boundary of 
the company's control 
Climate change impact and resilience
Manage environmental impacts created by our operations - emissions
Business continuity and energy management - local and global fuel shortages 
5
Diversity and equal opportunity 
Diversity equity and inclusivity in the workplace
6
Waste management 
Reduction of plastic usage and reclamation from customers
Manage environmental impacts created by our operations - waste management
7
Talent attraction and retention 
Employee attraction, retention, and skill resilience 
Loss of skilled staff due to increased local and global competition 
Volatility and vulnerabilities in the macroeconomic environment impacting employees, consumers, 
communities, and the supply chain 
8
Risk management 
Government policy uncertainty
Currency volatility and increased interest rates
9
Water and wastewater management
Manage environmental impacts created by our operations - effluents
10
Human rights 
 
11
Privacy and data security 
Data security and customer privacy / information governance and security 
Digitalisation
12
Transparency and disclosures 
 
13
Stakeholder relationship management 
Customer relations/ retention
Volatility and vulnerabilities in the macroeconomic environment impacting employees, consumers, 
communities, and the supply chain 
14
Product safety and quality 
 
15
Supply chain management 
Supply chain vulnerabilities due to pandemic and country's economic crisis
Increasing prices of product and services and price volatilities in the supply chain 
Volatility and vulnerabilities in the macroeconomic environment impacting employees, consumers, 
communities, and the supply chain 
16
Tax strategy 
Changes in taxation and Government levies 
17
Community relations and welfare
Local community development
Volatility and vulnerabilities in the macroeconomic environment impacting employees, consumers, 
communities, and the supply chain 
18
Biodiversity
John Keells Group Materiality Matrix
Importance to stakeholders 
(Influence)
Importance to JKH 
(Impact)
Medium
Medium
Supply Chain 
Management
Privacy and Data 
Security
Diversity and Equal 
Opportunity
Human Rights
GHG Emissions
Health & Safety
Corporate Governance
Business Conduct and Ethics
Talent Attraction 
and Retention
Waste 
Management / 
Packaging
Risk 
Management
Transparency in 
Disclosures
Water and 
Wastewater 
Management
Product Safety 
and Quality
Stakeholder Relationship 
Management
Tax Strategy
Community 
Relations and 
Welfare
Biodiversity
High
Very High
High
Very High
E
S
G
Very High
1.	 Business Conduct and Ethics
2.	 Corporate Governance
3.	 Health and Safety
4.	 GHG Emissions
5.	 Human Rights
6.	 Diversity and Equal Opportunity
7.	 Waste Management/Packaging
8.	 Talent Attraction and Retention
9.	 Risk Management
High
10.	 Water and Wastewater 
Management
11.	 Privacy and Security
12.	 Disclosures
13.	 Stakeholder Relationship 
Management
14.	 Product Safety and Quality
Medium
15.	 Supply Chain Management
16.	 Tax Strategy
17.	 Community Relations and Welfare
18.	 Biodiversity

260 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
Key Material topics for 2023/24
No. Material Topics
GRI Disclosures
Change 
Compared 
to FY 23
Actual/ Potential Impact
Approach
1
Business conduct and 
ethics
GRI 2
 
To organisation:
Impact on credibility, Brand reputation impact
Social and 
Relationship Capital
2
Corporate governance
GRI 2
To organisation:
Compliance and legal issues
Corporate 
Governance
3
Occupational health 
and safety
403-1, 403-2, 403-3, 
403-4, 403-5, 403-6, 
403-7, 403-8, 403-9 
 
To organisation:
Actual: Financial impact (Loss of working hours/
days)
Potential: Reputational damage 
Human Capital
 
4
GHG emissions 
305-1, 305-2, 305 -4, 
305-5, 305-6, 302-1, 
302-3, 302-4
From organisation: 
Actual: Safe working environment  
Potential: Risk of injury or risk to life
To organisation: 
Actual: Financial impact (Increased utility costs)
Potential: Reputational damage to the 
organisation
From organisation:
Actual: Emissions of CO2 and other pollutants 
negatively impacting the environment 
Potential: Climate change impact 
Risk and internal 
controls, Natural 
Capital
5
Diversity and equal 
opportunity 
405-1
 
To organisation: 
Actual: Positive employer branding (Be recognised 
for best practice in D, E & I)
Human Capital
From organisation:
Actual: No discrimination, Equal rights
6
Waste management 
306-1, 306-2, 306-3, 
306-4, 306-5
 
To organisation: 
Potential: Risk of reputation (Potential reputational 
damage due to improper disposal) compliances 
as well as fines 
Natural Capital
From organisation: 
Potential: Improper disposal of waste could lead 
to ground and water pollution 
Management of Material Topics  
The final selection of Group-level material topics stemmed from the aggregation of sector-level considerations. Thereafter, the Group's leadership 
team reevaluated these topics to highlight those deemed particularly material for Group-wide consideration, given their significant impact on 
the organisation, external environment, and stakeholders. Subsequently, the Group established ambitions across environmental (E), social (S), and 
governance (G) domains, delineating short-, medium-, and long-term goals.
These ambitions were formulated during a Group-level ambition setting workshop, attended by the GEC, cross-functional sector leadership, and 
representatives from central functions. Each vertical will be overseen by an appointed member of the GEC and led by designated representatives 
from across the organisation. Steering committees, inclusive of sector representation, will be tasked with developing Group-level roadmaps for these 
verticals. Subsequently, based on materiality considerations, Group-level ambitions will be cascaded down to the sector level.
Sector steering committees will thereafter develop sector-specific roadmaps aligned with the Group's objectives, in addition to the sector-specific ambitions 
identified during sector-level workshops. The Group is currently finalising the broad verticals and ambitions. Upon their establishment and the formation 
of sector and group-level steering committees, along with the development of roadmaps, the new ESG strategy framework will be shared with all Group 
stakeholders. A rigorous governance framework, coupled with a robust tracking mechanism, will be instituted to monitor the progress of these ambitions. 
Employees
Suppliers
Environment
DETERMINING MATERIALITY

261
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
No. Material Topics
GRI Disclosures
Change 
Compared 
to FY 23
Actual/ Potential Impact
Approach
7
Talent attraction and 
retention 
401-1, 401-2, 401-3, 
404-1, 404-2, 404-3
To organisation: 
Actual: High attrition rates, loss of skilled staff, high 
costs of training
Potential: Strategies taken to attract and retain 
employees can result in higher productivity and 
efficiency 
Human Capital, 
Risk and Internal 
Controls
From organisation: 
Employee well-being, professional development 
8
Risk management 
 
To organisation: 
Potential: Failure to identify risks ahead could lead 
to losses and damages
 
Financial and 
Manufactured 
Capital, Outlook
From organisation: 
Potential: Failure to manage risks could lead 
to closure of businesses resulting in loss of 
employment, impact to local economy 
9
Water and wastewater 
management
303-1, 303-2, 303-3,  
303-4, 303-5
 
To organisation: 
Potential: Reputational damage due to improper 
disposal) compliances as well as fines 
Actual: Increased costs of water and increased 
water footprint
Natural Capital
From organisation: 
Potential: Pollution due to improper disposal of 
effluents
Increased water stress levels
10
Human rights 
 
11
Privacy and data 
security 
Cyber-attacks, loss of data
Social and 
Relationship Capital
12
Transparency and 
disclosures 
 
13
Stakeholder 
relationship 
management 
Loss of customer confidence
Social and 
Relationship Capital
14
Product safety and 
quality 
 
15
Supply chain 
management 
204
Disruptions to operations
Risk and Internal 
Controls
16
Tax strategy 
207
Impacts from policy changes
Corporate 
Governance
17
Community relations 
and welfare
413
Socioeconomic disparity
Social and 
Relationship Capital
18
Biodiversity
 
A detailed description of the strategies and approach adopted by the Group in managing its material topics are contained in the management 
approach in each of the capital sections and under the Corporate Governance Commentary sections of the report. 
Employees
Suppliers
Environment


263
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
More to Life
265  Annual Report of the Board of Directors    270  The Statement of Directors’ Responsibility 
271  Independent Auditors’ Report    274  Income Statement    275  Statement of Comprehensive Income 
276  Statement of Financial Position    277  Statement of Cash Flows    278  Statement of Changes in Equity 
280  Notes to the Financial Statements

264 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
INDEX TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE AND GROUP INFORMATION 
1 	 Corporate information 	
280
2 	 Group information 	
280
BASIS OF PREPARATION AND OTHER MATERIAL ACCOUNTING 
POLICIES
3	
Basis of preparation 	
280
4 	 Summary of material accounting policies	
281
5 	 Significant accounting judgements, estimates and  
assumptions	
282
6 	 Changes in accounting standards 	
282
7 	 Standards issued but not yet effective	
282 
GROUP BUSINESS, OPERATIONS AND MANAGEMENT
8 	 Operating segment information 	
284
9 	 Basis of consolidation and material partly owned  
subsidiaries	
289
10 	 Business combinations and acquisitions of  
non-controlling interests	
291
11 	 Financial risk management objectives and policies	
293
12 	 Fair value measurement and related fair  
value disclosures	
303
13 	 Financial instruments and related policies	
305
NOTES TO THE INCOME STATEMENT, STATEMENT OF 
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME AND STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL 
POSITION
14 	 Revenue 	
310
15 	 Dividend income 	
313
16 	 Other operating income and other operating  
expenses	
313
17 	 Net finance income 	
314
18 	 Profit before tax 	
315
19 	 Earnings per share 	
316
20 	 Dividend per share 	
316
21 	 Taxes 	
316
22 	 Property, plant and equipment 	
322
23 	 Right of use assets and lease liabilities 	
327
24	 Investment properties 	
329
25 	 Intangible assets 	
331
26 	 Investment in subsidiaries 	
334
27 	 Investment in equity accounted investees	
337
28 	 Non current financial assets 	
340
29 	 Other non current assets 	
342
30 	 Inventories 	
342 
31 	 Trade and other receivables 	
342
32 	 Other current assets 	
343
33 	 Short term investments 	
343
34 	 Stated capital and other components of equity	
345
35 	 Share-based payment plans 	
346
36 	 Insurance contract liabilities 	
347
37 	 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings	
351
38	 Employee benefit liabilities 	
354
39 	 Non current financial liabilities	
355
40	 Other non current liabilities	
356
41 	 Trade and other payables 	
356
42 	 Short term borrowings 	
356
43 	 Other current liabilities 	
357
44 	 Related party transactions 	
357
OTHER DISCLOSURES 
45 	 Contingent liabilities 	
361
46 	 Capital and other commitments 	
363
47 	 Assets pledged 	
364
48	 Events after the reporting period 	
364
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS	
265
THE STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY	
270
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT 	
271
INCOME STATEMENT	
274
STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME	
275
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION 	
276
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 	
277
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 	
278
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS	
280

265
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF 
DIRECTORS
The Directors have pleasure in presenting the 
45th Annual Report of your Company which 
covers the Audited Financial Statements, 
Chairperson’s Message, Corporate Governance 
Commentary, Management Discussion and 
Analysis including Industry Group Review 
and all the other relevant information for the 
year ended 31 March 2024. Disclosures which 
appear in the Share Information section form 
a part of the Annual Report of the Board 
of Directors as it is a requirement of the 
Companies Act No. 07 of 2007.
The management has formed judgment 
that the Company, its subsidiaries, associates 
and joint ventures have adequate resources 
to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future driven by the continuous 
operationalisation of risk mitigation initiatives 
and monitoring of business continuity and 
response plans at each business unit level 
along with the financial strength of the Group. 
The Group’s Outlook has been presented in 
page 107 in the Annual Report.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Financial Statements of the Company and 
Group for the year ended 31 March 2024, 
which have been prepared in accordance 
with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRS/
LKAS) with the inclusion of the signatures 
of the Chairperson, Deputy Chairperson/
Group Finance Director and Group Financial 
Controller, are given as a part of the Integrated 
Annual Report.
John Keells Holdings PLC
In Rs.‘000s
For the year ended 31 March
2024
2023
Profit After Tax
 4,252,313 
 14,709,284 
Other Adjustments
 (45,847)
 (714,742)
Balance brought forward from the previous year
 101,114,527 
 89,889,818 
Amount available for appropriation
 105,320,993 
 103,884,360 
Interim dividends of Rs.1.00 per share (2023-Rs.1.50) paid out of 
dividend received
 (1,388,015)
 (2,077,375)
Final dividend declared Rs. 0.50 (2023-Rs.0.50)
(749,778)
 (692,458)
Balance to be carried forward to the next year
103,183,200
 101,114,527 
together with the audited financial statements, 
reflect the state of affairs of the Company and 
the Group. The segment-wise contribution to 
Group revenue, results, assets and liabilities are 
provided in Note 8 to the Financial Statements.
FINANCIAL RESULTS AND APPROPRIATIONS
Accounting Policies
All the material accounting policies adopted by 
the Company and Group are provided in the 
Notes to the Financial Statements. There have 
been no changes in the accounting policies 
adopted by the Group during the year under 
review. For all periods up to and including 
the year ended 31 March 2024, the Group 
prepared its financial statements in accordance 
with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRS/
LKAS) which have materially converged 
with the International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS) as issued by the International 
Accounting Standards Board (IASB).
Revenue
Revenue generated by the Company 
amounted to Rs. 2,916 Mn (2023– Rs.2,544 Mn), 
whilst Group revenue amounted to Rs. 280,773 
Mn (2023 – Rs.276,640 Mn). Contribution to 
Group revenue, from the different business 
segments, is provided in Note 8 to the Financial 
Statements.
Profit and Appropriations
The profit after tax of the Company was 
Rs.4,252 Mn (2023 – Rs.14,709 Mn) whilst the 
Group profit attributable to equity holders of 
the parent for the year was Rs.11,248 Mn (2023 
- Rs.18,174 Mn).
The Company’s total comprehensive income 
net of tax was Rs. 3,302 Mn (2023 - Rs.15,925 
Mn), and the Group total comprehensive 
income attributable to parent was Rs. 6,553 Mn 
(2023 - Rs.24,449 Mn).
Dividend and Reserves
As required by Section 56(2) of the Companies 
Act No 7 of 2007, the Board of Directors have 
confirmed that the Company satisfies the 
solvency test in accordance with Section 57 
of the Companies Act No 7 of 2007, and has 
obtained certificates from the auditors, prior to 
declaring all dividends. 
A final dividend will be paid on or before 
25 June 2024 to those shareholders on the 
register as of 5 June 2024.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
John Keells Holdings PLC (the Company), 
the Group’s Holding Company, manages a 
portfolio of Holdings consisting of a range of 
diverse business operations, which, together, 
constitute the John Keells Group (the Group), 
and provides function-based services to its 
subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates.
The companies within the Group and its 
business activities are described in the 
Group Directory under the Supplementary 
Information section of the Annual Report. 
There were no significant changes to the 
principal activities of the Company or its 
subsidiaries during the year.
CORPORATE VISION AND VALUES
A culture of innovation, integrity, excellence, 
caring and trust has been developed within 
the Group. By being aligned with these values 
the Directors and employees conduct their 
activities to achieve the vision, “Building 
businesses that are leaders in the region”.
REVIEW OF BUSINESS SEGMENTS
A review of the financial and operational 
performance and future business 
developments of the Group, sectors, and 
its business units are described in the 
Management Discussion and Analysis section 
of the Annual Report. Significant changes 
to business combinations and acquisition of 
non-controlling interests are provided in Note 
10 to the Financial Statements. These reports, 

266 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE
The Company’s and Group’s capital 
expenditure on property, plant and equipment 
amounted to Rs. 23 Mn (2023 - Rs.102 Mn) 
and Rs. 35,773 Mn (2023 - Rs.7,074 Mn), 
respectively, and all other related information 
and movements have been disclosed in Note 
22 to the Financial Statements.
Additions of intangible assets of the Company 
and Group during the year amounted to Nil 
(2023 - Nil) and Rs. 1,523 Mn (2023 - Rs.1,296 
Mn), respectively, and all other related 
movements are disclosed in Note 25 to the 
Financial Statements.
VALUATION OF LAND, BUILDINGS AND 
INVESTMENT PROPERTIES
All land and buildings owned by Group 
companies were revalued as at 31 December 
2023 and the carrying value amounted to 
Rs. 113,313 Mn (2023 - Rs.110,716 Mn). All 
information related to revaluation is given in 
Note 22.3 to the Financial Statements.
Investment properties of business units, when 
significantly occupied by Group companies, 
are classified as property, plant and equipment 
in the consolidated financial statements in 
compliance with LKAS 40.
The Group revalued all its investment 
properties as at 31 December 2023, and the 
carrying value amounted to Rs.31,519 Mn 
(2023- Rs.33,029 Mn). All information related 
to revaluation of the investment properties 
is provided in Note 24 to the Financial 
Statements. 
Details of the Group’s real estate portfolio as 
at 31 March 2024, are disclosed in the Group 
Real Estate Portfolio within the Supplementary 
Information section of the Annual Report.
INVESTMENTS
Detailed description of the long term 
investments held as at the reporting date, is 
given in Notes 26, 27 and 28 to the Financial 
Statements.
STATED CAPITAL
Stated Capital as at 31 March 2024 of the 
Company amounted to Rs. 90,602 Mn 
(2023 - Rs.73,188 Mn). The movement and 
composition of the Stated Capital is disclosed 
in the Statement of Changes in Equity and in 
Note 34.1 to the Financial Statements.
REVENUE RESERVES
Revenue reserves as at 31 March 2024 for the 
Company and Group amounted to Rs. 103,933 
Mn (2023 - Rs.101,807 Mn) and Rs. 130,812 
Mn (2023 - Rs.121,743 Mn), respectively. The 
movement of the revenue reserve is disclosed 
in the Statement of Changes in Equity.
SHARE INFORMATION
The distribution and composition of 
shareholders and the information relating 
to earnings, dividends, net assets, market 
value per share and share trading is given 
in the Share Information section of the 
Annual Report. As additional disclosures, the 
Company’s Board of Directors’ (including their 
close family members) shareholdings, options 
available under the employee share option 
(ESOP) plans as at 31 March 2024, market 
capitalisation, public holding percentage and 
number of public shareholders are given in 
the Share Information section of the Annual 
Report. 
MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS
Details of the twenty largest shareholders 
of the Company and the percentages held 
by each of them are disclosed in the Share 
Information section of the Annual Report.
EQUITABLE TREATMENT OF SHAREHOLDERS 
The Company has at all times ensured that all 
shareholders are treated equitably.
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
The Board of Directors of the Company as at 
31 March 2024 and their brief profiles are given 
in the Corporate Governance section of the 
Annual Report.
RETIREMENT AND RE-ELECTION OF 
DIRECTORS 
Retirement and Re-Election of Directors of the 
Company as at 31 March 2024 are given in the 
Proxy Form.
REVIEW OF THE PERFORMANCE OF THE 
BOARD
The performance of the board has been 
appraised through a formalised process, 
where each individual Director anonymously 
comments on the dynamics of the Board. 
The process is described in the Corporate 
Governance Commentary section of the 
Annual Report.
BOARD COMMITTEES
Information relating to members of the 
Audit Committee, Human Resources and 
Compensation Committee, Nominations 
Committee, Related Party Transactions Review 
Committee and Project Risk Assessment 
Committee, including reports of each of the 
committees, where applicable, and attendance 
of Directors for each of the committee 
meetings, are disclosed in the Corporate 
Governance Commentary section of the 
Annual Report.
INTERESTS REGISTER AND INTERESTS IN 
CONTRACTS
The Company has maintained an Interests 
Register as contemplated by the Companies 
Act No 7 of 2007.
This Annual Report also contains particulars 
of entries made in the Interests Registers of 
subsidiaries which are public companies or 
private companies that have not dispensed 
with the requirement to maintain an Interests 
Register as permitted by Section 30 of the 
Companies Act No 7 of 2007.
The Directors have all made a general 
disclosure relating to share dealings and 
indemnities and remuneration to the Board 
of Directors as permitted by Section 192 (2) 
of the Companies Act No 7 of 2007 and no 
additional interests have been disclosed by 
any Director. The Interest Register is available at 
the registered head office of the Company, in 
keeping with the requirements of the section 
119 (1) (d) of the Companies Act No 7 of 2007. 
SHARE DEALINGS
Other than for the following entries, particulars 
of the Company interest register are disclosed 
in the Share Information section of the Annual 
Report. 

267
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
John Keells Holdings PLC 
•	 Phoenix Ventures (Pvt) Ltd (A N Fonseka – 
Director) Sale of 5,489,386 shares.
Given below are the particulars of’ share 
dealings of subsidiaries reported, for 
subsidiaries which are public companies, or 
private companies, which have not dispensed 
with the requirement to maintain an interest 
register for the period from 1 April 2023 to 31 
March 2024.
Trans Asia Hotels PLC 
•	 N L Gooneratne (Director) - Sale of 67,217 
shares
INDEMNITIES AND REMUNERATION 
The Board approved the payment of 
remuneration of the following Executive 
Directors for the period from 1 April 2023 to 31 
March 2024 comprising of; 
•	 A fixed element
•	 A short term variable incentive based on 
the individual performance, organisation 
performance and role responsibility 
based on the results of the financial year 
2022/2023, and 
•	 A long term incentive plan including 
employee share options in John Keells 
Holdings PLC.
John Keells Holdings PLC
• 	 K N J Balendra
• 	 J G A Cooray
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC
• 	 D P Gamlath
• 	 P N Fernando
Cinnamon Hotel Management Ltd
• 	 M H Singhawansa
Walkers Tours Ltd
• 	 I N Amaratunga
All approvals relating to indemnities and 
remuneration have been recommended by 
the Human Resources and Compensation 
Committee, taking into consideration inputs 
from market surveys, expert opinions and the 
specific management complexities associated 
with the John Keells Group and in keeping 
with the Group remuneration policy.
The contracts and standard director fees of the 
following Non-Executive Directors have been 
approved / renewed by the Board. The director 
fees are commensurate with the market 
complexities associated with the Group.
John Keells Holdings PLC
•	 D V R S Fernando (appointed w.e.f 9 August 
2023)
Tea Smallholders Factories PLC
•	 A Goonetilleke
•	 A S Jayatilleke
Union Assurance PLC
•	 P T Wanigasekara (appointed w.e.f 1 April 
2023)
•	 D H Fernando
Rajawella Holdings Limited
•	 B D N Jayatilake (appointed w.e.f 1 April 
2023)
Fees payable to Non-Executive Nominee 
Directors of John Keells Holdings PLC was paid 
to John Keells Holdings PLC and not to the 
individual Directors.
During the 2023/2024 financial year, 
•	 M P Perera retired from the Board of John 
Keells Holdings PLC w.e.f 1 July 2023.
•	 Demise of A E H Sanderatne, Independent 
Non-Executive Director of Keells Food 
Products PLC, on 23 July 2023.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
Details of the remuneration and other benefits 
received by the Directors are set out in Note 
44.7 to the Financial Statements.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
The Company’s transactions with Related 
Parties, given in Note 44 to the Financial 
Statements, have complied with the 
Colombo Stock Exchange Listing Rule 9.14.8 
and the Code of Best Practices on Related 
Party Transactions under the Securities and 
Exchange Commission Directive issued under 
Section 13(c) of the Securities and Exchange 
Commission Act.
EMPLOYEE SHARE OPTION PLAN (ESOP)
At the beginning of the year, the employee 
share option plan consisted of the Tenth and 
Eleventh plans approved by the shareholders 
on 28 June 2019 and 24 June 2022, 
respectively.
The Directors confirm that the Company has 
not granted any funding to employees to 
exercise options.
Details of the options granted, options 
exercised, the grant price and the options 
cancelled or lapsed and outstanding as at the 
date of the Directors’ Report, as required by the 
Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange, 
are given in the Share Information section of 
the Annual Report.
The highest, lowest and the closing prices of 
the Company shares are disclosed in the Share 
Information section of the Annual Report.
EMPLOYMENT
The Group has an equal opportunity policy 
and these principles are enshrined in 
specific selection, training, development and 
promotion policies, ensuring that all decisions 
are based on merit. The Group practices 
equality of opportunity for all employees 
irrespective of ethnic origin, religion, political 
opinion, gender, marital status or physical 
disability. Employee ownership in the 
Company is facilitated through the employee 
share option plan.
Details of the Group’s human resource 
initiatives are detailed in the Human Capital 
section of the Capital Management Review 
section of the Annual Report.
The number of persons employed by the 
Company and Group as at 31 March 2024 was 
163 (2023 - 145) and 15,314 (2023 - 15,415), 
respectively.
There have been no material issues pertaining 
to employees and industrial relations of the 
Company and the Group.

268 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
EQUITY & INCLUSION POLICY
The Group recognises the importance of 
diversity, equity and inclusion and the role 
it plays in ensuring workplace respect, 
organisational success and sustainability for 
all stakeholders. In this regard, it is committed 
to providing a working environment where 
all employees are included, their diversity is 
embraced and where their contributions are 
valued. The Group believes that its workforce 
should reflect the diversity of the communities 
in which its businesses operate and the diverse 
set of stakeholders it creates value for, within 
the organisation and with its partners and 
vendors, and that positive relationships with 
stakeholder groups, which are also diverse 
and inclusive, will enable businesses to further 
augment its diversity and growth journey. 
The Group recognises that organisations that 
constitute diverse and inclusive workforces 
are best placed to innovate, retain talent and 
deliver better overall results and firmly believes 
that it can achieve its highest potential through 
bringing together diverse perspectives and 
backgrounds. It is committed to advancing 
a culture of equitable inclusion amongst its 
workforce and value chain and ensuring that 
the dignity and diversity of all employees and 
value chain partners are respected.
SUPPLIER POLICY
The Group applies an overall policy of 
agreeing and clearly communicating the 
terms of payment as part of the commercial 
agreements negotiated with suppliers, and 
endeavours to pay for all items in accordance 
with these agreed terms. As at 31 March 2024, 
the trade and other payables of the Company 
and Group amounted to Rs. 1,464 Mn (2023 - 
Rs.631 Mn) and Rs. 42,583 Mn (2023 - Rs.29,866 
Mn), respectively.
The Group strives to integrate principles 
of sustainable practices and policies in its 
value chain through extensive stakeholder 
consultations, the findings of which are 
integrated into work-plans.
RATIOS AND MARKET PRICE INFORMATION 
The ratios relating to listed equity, debt and 
market price information as required by 
the listing requirements of the Colombo 
Stock Exchange are given under the Share 
Information section of this Report.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Board of Directors is committed 
towards maintaining an effective Corporate 
Governance Framework by effectively 
implementing systems and structures 
required to ensure best practices in Corporate 
Governance. The manner in which the 
Company has complied with Section 7.10 
of the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock 
Exchange (CSE) on Corporate Governance are 
given in the Corporate Governance section of 
this Report. 
SUSTAINABILITY
The Group pursues its business goals based 
on a model of stakeholder governance. 
Findings of the continuous internal stakeholder 
engagements have enabled the Group to focus 
on material issues such as the conservation 
of natural resources and the environment as 
well as material issues highlighted by other 
stakeholders such as employees, customers, 
suppliers and the community. These steps have 
been encapsulated in a Group-wide strategy 
focused on sustainable development which 
continuously evolves based on the above 
mentioned stakeholder engagements.
This is the Group’s ninth Integrated Annual 
Report, which presents a comprehensive 
discussion on its financial and non-financial 
performance, in a bid to provide its 
stakeholders with holistic information relating 
to its value creation proposition through 
the six forms of capital reported under the 
International <IR> Framework. The Group has 
sought independent third-party assurance 
from DNV GL, represented in Sri Lanka by DNV 
Business Assurance Lanka (Pvt) Ltd, in relation 
to the non-financial information contained in 
this report. 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
The Group has an active approach to research 
and development and recognises the 
contribution that it can make to intellectual 
property and the Group’s operations. 
Significant expenditure has taken place over 
the years and substantial efforts will continue 
to be made to introduce intellectual property 
rights, develop new products and processes 
and improve the operational efficiency of 
existing products and processes.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
The Group complies with the relevant 
environmental laws, regulations and 
endeavours to comply with best practices 
applicable in the country of operation. 
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR)
John Keells Foundation, which is funded 
by JKH and its subsidiaries, handles most of 
the Group’s CSR initiatives and activities. The 
Foundation manages a range of programmes 
that underpin its key principle of acting 
responsibly towards its stakeholders and to 
bring about sustainable development in the 
focus areas. The CSR initiatives, including 
completed and on-going projects, are detailed 
in the Group Consolidated Review section in 
the Annual Report.
In quantifying the Group’s contribution to CSR 
initiatives and activities, no account has been 
taken of in-house costs or management time.
DONATIONS
Total donations made by the Company and the 
Group during the year amounted to Nil (2023 
- Rs.101 Mn) and Rs. 43 Mn (2023 - Rs.107 Mn), 
respectively. These amounts do not include 
contributions on account of corporate social 
responsibility (CSR) initiatives.
STATUTORY PAYMENTS
The Directors confirm that to the best of 
their knowledge, all taxes, duties and levies 
payable by the Company and its subsidiaries, 
all contributions, levies and taxes payable on 
behalf of, and in respect of, the employees 
of the Company and its subsidiaries, and all 
other known statutory dues as were due and 
payable by the Company and its subsidiaries as 
at the statement of financial position date have 
been paid or, where relevant, provided for, 
except as specified in Note 45 to the Financial 
Statements covering contingent liabilities.
COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND 
REGULATIONS 
To the best of the knowledge and belief of the 
Directors, the Company and the Group have 
not engaged in any activity, which contravenes 
laws and regulations of the country.

269
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT AND 
INTERNAL CONTROLS
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing 
process of identifying, evaluating and 
managing any significant risk faced by the 
Group, where annual risk reviews are carried 
out by the Enterprise Risk Management 
Division and the risks are further reviewed each 
quarter by each business unit. The headline 
risks of each listed Company are presented 
by the Business Unit to its respective Audit 
Committee for review and in the case of 
John Keells Holdings PLC, by the Enterprise 
Risk Management Division to the John Keells 
Holdings PLC Audit Committee.
The Corporate Governance section of this 
Report elaborates on these practices and the 
Group’s risk factors.
INTERNAL CONTROLS AND ASSURANCE 
The Board, through the involvement of the 
Group Business Process Review Division, takes 
steps to gain assurance on the effectiveness 
over the financial, operational and risk 
management control systems in place. The 
Audit Committee receives regular reports on 
the adequacy and effectiveness of internal 
controls in the Group, compliance with laws 
and regulations and established policies and 
procedures of the Group. The head of the 
Group Business Process Review Division has 
direct access to the Chairperson of the Audit 
Committee. Reports of the outsourced internal 
auditors are also reviewed by the Committee.
EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD 
There have been no events subsequent to 
the reporting period, which would have any 
material effect on the Company or on the 
Group other than those disclosed in Note 48 to 
the Financial Statements.
GOING CONCERN
It is the view of the management that there 
are no material uncertainties that may cast 
significant doubt on the Groups’ ability to 
continue to operate as going concern. The 
management has formed judgment that 
the Company, its subsidiaries, associates and 
joint ventures have adequate resources to 
continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future driven by the continuous 
operationalisation of risk mitigation initiatives 
and monitoring of business continuity and 
response plans at each business unit level 
along with the financial strength of the Group.
APPOINTMENT AND REMUNERATION OF 
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
Messrs. Ernst & Young, Chartered Accountants, 
are willing to continue as Auditors of the 
Company, and a resolution proposing their 
reappointment will be tabled at the Annual 
General Meeting.
The Independent Auditors’ Report is found in 
the Financial Statements section of the Annual 
Report.
The Audit Committee reviews the 
appointment of the Auditor, its effectiveness, 
its independence and its relationship with the 
Group, including the level of audit and non-
audit fees paid to the Auditor.
The Group works with 3 firms of Chartered 
Accountants across the Group, namely, Ernst 
& Young, KPMG and Deloitte Partners. Details 
of audit fees are set out in Note 18 to the 
Financial Statements. The Auditors do not have 
any relationship (other than that of an Auditor) 
with the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Further details on the work of the Auditor and 
the Audit Committee are set out in the Audit 
Committee Report.
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 
The Board of Directors approved the 
consolidated financial statements on 21 May 
2024. The requisite number of copies of this 
report will be submitted to the Colombo Stock 
Exchange and to the Sri Lanka Accounting and 
Auditing Standards Monitoring Board.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The Notice of Meeting of the Annual General 
Meeting appears in the Supplementary 
Information section of the Annual Report. 
EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING
A Notice has been dispatched to convene 
Extraordinary General Meeting for the purpose 
of considering and if thought fit, to pass the 
Special Resolution to amend Article 105 of 
the Articles of Association of the Company 
to reflect the requirements pertaining to 
Alternate Directors under Section 9.9 of the 
Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange.
This Annual Report is signed for and on behalf 
of the Board of Directors.
By Order of the Board
Director
Director
Keells Consultants (Pvt) Ltd
Secretaries
21 May 2024

270 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
THE STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ 
RESPONSIBILITY
The responsibility of the Directors in relation 
to the financial statements is set out in the 
following statement. The responsibility of the 
auditors, in relation to the financial statements 
prepared in accordance with the provision of 
the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007, is set out in 
the Report of the Auditors. 
The financial statements comprise of: 
•	 income statement and statement of 
comprehensive income of the Company 
and its subsidiaries, which present a true 
and fair view of the financial performance 
of the Company and its subsidiaries for the 
financial year; and
•	 a statement of financial position, which 
presents a true and fair view of the state of 
affairs of the Company and its subsidiaries 
as at the end of the financial year: and 
The Directors are required to confirm that the 
financial statements:
have been prepared: 
•	 using appropriate accounting policies 
which have been selected and applied in a 
consistent manner, and material departures, 
if any, have been disclosed and explained; 
and
are
•	 presented in accordance with the Sri Lanka 
Accounting Standards (SLFRS/LKAS); and 
that reasonable and prudent judgments 
and estimates have been made so that 
the form and substance of transactions are 
properly reflected; and
•	 provide the information required by and 
otherwise comply with the Companies Act 
and the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock 
Exchange. 
The Directors are also required to ensure 
that the Company has adequate resources 
to continue in operation to justify applying 
the going concern basis in preparing these 
financial statements. 
Further, the Directors have a responsibility 
to ensure that the Company maintains 
sufficient accounting records to disclose, with 
reasonable accuracy, the financial position of 
the Company and of the Group.
The Directors are also responsible for taking 
reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of 
the Company and of the Group and in this 
regard to give proper consideration to the 
establishment of appropriate internal control 
systems with a view to preventing and 
detecting fraud and other irregularities. 
The Directors are required to prepare the 
financial statements and to provide the 
auditors with every opportunity to take 
whatever steps and undertake whatever 
inspections that may be considered being 
appropriate to enable them to give their audit 
opinion.
As required by Section 56 (2) of the Companies 
Act No. 7 of 2007, the Board of Directors have 
confirmed that the Company, based on the 
information available, satisfies the solvency 
test immediately after the distribution, in 
accordance with Section 57 of the Companies 
Act No. 7 of 2007, and have obtained a 
certificate from the auditors, prior to declaring 
all dividend. A final dividend will be paid on or 
before 25 June 2024 to those shareholders on 
the register as of 5 June 2024.
The Directors are of the view that they have 
discharged their responsibilities as set out in 
this statement. 
COMPLIANCE REPORT
The Directors confirm that to the best of 
their knowledge, all taxes, duties and levies 
payable by the Company and its subsidiaries, 
all contributions, levies and taxes payable on 
behalf of and in respect of the employees 
of the Company and its subsidiaries, and 
all other known statutory dues as were 
due and payable by the Company and its 
subsidiaries as at the reporting date have 
been paid, or where relevant provided for, 
except as specified in Note 45 to the Financial 
Statements covering contingent liabilities.
By order of the Board
Keells Consultants (Pvt) Ltd
Secretaries
21 May 2024

271
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF JOHN KEELLS 
HOLDINGS PLC 
REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
OPINION
We have audited the financial statements of 
John Keells Holdings PLC (“the Company”) and 
the consolidated financial statements of the 
Company and its subsidiaries (“the Group”), which 
comprise the statement of financial position 
as at 31 March 2024 , and the statement of 
comprehensive income, statement of changes 
in equity and statement of cash flows for the 
year then ended, and notes to the financial 
statements, including material accounting policy 
information. 
In our opinion, the accompanying financial 
statements of the Company and the Group give 
a true and fair view of the financial position of the 
Company and the Group as at 31 March 2024, 
and of their financial performance and cash flows 
for the year then ended in accordance with Sri 
Lanka Accounting Standards.
BASIS FOR OPINION
We conducted our audit in accordance with 
Sri Lanka Auditing Standards (SLAuSs). Our 
responsibilities under those standards are further 
described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for 
the audit of the financial statements section of 
our report. We are independent of the Group 
in accordance with the Code of Ethics for 
Professional Accountants issued by CA  
Sri Lanka (Code of Ethics) and we have fulfilled 
our other ethical responsibilities in accordance 
with the Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit 
evidence we have obtained is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. 
KEY AUDIT MATTERS
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our 
professional judgment, were of most significance 
in our audit of the financial statements of the 
current period. These matters were addressed 
in the context of our audit of the financial 
statements as a whole, and in forming our 
opinion thereon, and we do not provide a 
separate opinion on these matters. For each 
matter below, our description of how our audit 
addressed the matter is provided in that context.
We have fulfilled the responsibilities described 
in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit 
of the financial statements section of our 
report, including in relation to these matters. 
Accordingly, our audit included the performance 
of procedures designed to respond to our 
assessment of the risks of material misstatement 
of the financial statements. The results of our 
audit procedures, including the procedures 
performed to address the matters below, 
provide the basis for our audit opinion on the 
accompanying financial statements.
Key audit matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Assessment of fair value of land and buildings
Property, Plant and Equipment and Investment Properties 
include land and buildings carried at fair value. The fair value 
of land and buildings were determined by external valuers 
engaged by the Group. 
This was a key audit matter due to:
•	 The materiality of the reported fair value of land and buildings 
which amounted to Rs.145 Bn representing 19% of the Group’s 
total assets as of the reporting date; and
•	 The degree of assumptions, judgements and estimation 
uncertainties associated with fair valuation of land and 
buildings using the market approach, income approach and 
depreciated replacement cost approach.
Key areas of significant judgments, estimates and assumptions 
used in assessing the fair value of land and buildings, as 
disclosed in Notes 22 and 24 to the financial statements, 
included judgements involved in ascertaining the appropriate 
valuation techniques and estimates such as:
•	 Estimate of per perch value of the land.
•	 Estimate of the per square foot value of the buildings.
•	 Market rent per square foot, occupancy rates and yield.
Our audit procedures included the following key procedures: 
•	 Assessed the competence, capability and objectivity of the external valuers 
engaged by the Group.
•	 Read the external valuer’s report and understood the key estimates made and 
the valuation approaches taken by the valuer in determining the valuation of 
each property.
•	 Assessed the reasonableness of significant assumptions, judgements and 
estimates made by the valuer such as per perch value, per square foot value, 
market rent per square foot, occupancy rates, yield and valuation techniques 
as relevant in assessing the fair value of each property.
We also assessed the adequacy of the disclosures made in Notes 22 and 24 to 
the financial statements.

272 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
Key audit matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Assessing the carrying value of capital work in progress
As disclosed in Note 22, capital work in progress stated under 
Property, Plant and Equipment amounting to Rs. 247 Bn and 
represents 32% of total assets of the Group as at 31 March 2024.
This was a key audit matter due to the materiality of the reported 
balance which includes the ongoing construction cost of 
Waterfront Properties (Pvt) Ltd and the possible impacts due to 
cost escalations to complete the project due to the economic 
conditions in the country.
Our audit procedures included the following key procedures: 
•	 Obtained an understanding of the process followed by the management 
including the basis of judgments and assumptions to estimate the future costs 
to complete the projects.
•	 Performed test of expenditure and allocation of overheads including an 
examination of management’s assessment as to whether the expenditure met 
the recognition and measurement criteria set forth in the accounting policies 
of the Group.
•	 Reviewed the project status reports and the certificates issued by the project 
manager to identify the status of the project and the estimated and actual 
costs incurred as of reporting date.
We also assessed the adequacy of the disclosures made in Note 22 to the 
financial statements.
Life insurance contract liabilities
Life Insurance Contract Liabilities amounting to Rs. 69.5 Bn 
represent 18% of total liabilities of the Group as at 31 March 2024 
and are determined based on an actuarial valuation as described 
in Note 36 to the financial statements.
This was a key audit matter due to:
•	 Materiality of the reported Life Insurance Contract Liabilities.
•	 The degree of assumptions, judgements and estimation 
uncertainties associated with the actuarial valuation of Life 
Insurance Contract Liabilities and Liability Adequacy Test 
carried out to determine the adequacy of the carrying value of 
Life Insurance Contract Liabilities.
Key assumptions used in the valuation of the Life Insurance 
Contract Liabilities included the mortality rate , morbidity rate , 
lapses ratio and surrenders rates, loss ratios, bonus, interest rates, 
discount rates and related claim handling expenses, as disclosed 
in Note 36 to the financial statements.
To assess the reasonableness of the Life Insurance Contract Liabilities, our audit 
procedures included the following;
•	 Assessed the competence, capability and objectivity of the management 
specialist engaged by the Group.
•	 Obtained an understanding of the liability valuation process.
•	 Checked the completeness and accuracy of the data used in the valuation 
of Life Insurance Contract Liabilities by agreeing key information to source 
documents and accounting records.
•	 Engaged expert resources to assess the reasonableness of the assumptions 
and appropriateness of the methods used in the actuarial valuations of Life 
Insurance Contract Liability and Liability Adequacy Test with reference to 
market data and policyholders experience.
We assessed the adequacy of the disclosures in Note 36 to the financial 
statements.
Interest Bearing Loans and Borrowings
As of the reporting date, the Group reported total interest 
bearing loans and borrowings of Rs. 150 Bn, of which Rs. 23 Bn is 
reported as current liabilities and the balance Rs. 127 Bn as non-
current liabilities. 
Interest bearing loans and borrowings was a key audit matter 
due to 
•	 The materiality of the reported interest bearing loans and 
borrowings balance which represents 38% of the Group’s total 
liabilities as of the reporting date; and
•	 The existence of several financial and non-financial covenants, 
the breach of which could impact the classification of 
the interest bearing loans and borrowings in the financial 
statements.
Our audit procedures included the following key procedures:
•	 Evaluated the design of relevant key controls implemented for recording 
of loans and borrowings, monitoring, evaluating and timely reporting of 
covenant compliances in relation to interest bearing loans and borrowings.
•	 Obtained an understanding of the terms and conditions attached to loans and 
borrowings, by perusing the agreements.
•	 Reviewed the Management's statements of compliance with loan covenants 
and timely reporting and monitoring of covenant compliances in relation to 
interest bearing loans and borrowings and payment of the loan installments.
•	 Obtained confirmations from financial institutions on outstanding loans and 
borrowings as at 31 March 2024. 
We assessed the adequacy and appropriateness of the disclosures made in Note 
37 relating to interest bearing loans and borrowings.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
OTHER INFORMATION INCLUDED IN THE 
2023/24 ANNUAL REPORT 
Other information consists of the information 
included in the Annual Report, other than the 
financial statements and our auditor’s report 
thereon. Management is responsible for the other 
information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does 
not cover the other information and we do 
not express any form of assurance conclusion 
thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial 
statements, our responsibility is to read the other 
information and, in doing so, consider whether 
the other information is materially inconsistent 
with the financial statements or our knowledge 
obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to 
be materially misstated. If, based on the work 
we have performed, we conclude that there is a 
material misstatement of this other information, 
we are required to report that fact. We have 
nothing to report in this regard. 

273
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE MANAGEMENT 
AND THOSE CHARGED WITH GOVERNANCE 
FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Management is responsible for the preparation 
of financial statements that give a true and fair 
view in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting 
Standards, and for such internal control as 
management determines is necessary to enable 
the preparation of financial statements that are 
free from material misstatement, whether due to 
fraud or error. 
In preparing the financial statements, 
management is responsible for assessing the 
Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, 
disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going 
concern and using the going concern basis of 
accounting unless management either intends to 
liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has 
no realistic alternative but to do so. 
Those charged with governance are responsible 
for overseeing the Company’s and the Group’s 
financial reporting process. 
AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE 
AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether the financial statements as a 
whole are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error, and to issue 
an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. 
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, 
but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted 
in accordance with SLAuSs will always detect 
a material misstatement when it exists. 
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and 
are considered material if, individually or in the 
aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to 
influence the economic decisions of users taken 
on the basis of these financial statements. 
As part of an audit in accordance with SLAuSs, 
we exercise professional judgment and maintain 
professional skepticism throughout the audit. 
We also: 
•	 Identify and assess the risks of material 
misstatement of the financial statements, 
whether due to fraud or error, design and 
perform audit procedures responsive to 
those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a 
material misstatement resulting from fraud 
is higher than for one resulting from error, 
as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, 
intentional omissions, misrepresentations, 
or the override of internal control. 
•	 Obtain an understanding of internal control 
relevant to the audit in order to design 
audit procedures that are appropriate in the 
circumstances, but not for the purpose of 
expressing an opinion on the effectiveness 
of the internal controls of the Company and 
the Group. 
•	 Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting 
policies used and the reasonableness 
of accounting estimates and related 
disclosures made by management. 
•	 Conclude on the appropriateness of 
management’s use of the going concern 
basis of accounting and, based on the 
audit evidence obtained, whether a 
material uncertainty exists related to events 
or conditions that may cast significant 
doubt on the Group’s ability to continue 
as a going concern. If we conclude that 
a material uncertainty exists, we are 
required to draw attention in our auditor’s 
report to the related disclosures in the 
financial statements or, if such disclosures 
are inadequate, to modify our opinion. 
Our conclusions are based on the audit 
evidence obtained up to the date of our 
auditor’s report. However, future events or 
conditions may cause the Group to cease to 
continue as a going concern. 
•	 Evaluate the overall presentation, structure 
and content of the financial statements, 
including the disclosures, and whether 
the financial statements represent the 
underlying transactions and events in a 
manner that achieves fair presentation. 
•	 Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence 
regarding the financial information of 
the entities or business activities within 
the Group to express an opinion on the 
consolidated financial statements. We are 
responsible for the direction, supervision and 
performance of the group audit. We remain 
solely responsible for our audit opinion. 
We communicate with those charged with 
governance regarding, among other matters, 
the planned scope and timing of the audit 
and significant audit findings, including any 
significant deficiencies in internal control that we 
identify during our audit. 
We also provide those charged with governance 
with a statement that we have complied 
with relevant ethical requirements regarding 
independence, and to communicate with 
them all relationships and other matters that 
may reasonably be thought to bear on our 
independence, and where applicable, actions 
taken to eliminate threats or safeguards applied. 
From the matters communicated with those 
charged with governance, we determine those 
matters that were of most significance in the 
audit of the financial statements of the current 
period and are therefore the key audit matters. 
We describe these matters in our auditor’s 
report unless law or regulation precludes public 
disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely 
rare circumstances, we determine that a matter 
should not be communicated in our report 
because the adverse consequences of doing so 
would reasonably be expected to outweigh the 
public interest benefits of such communication. 
REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND 
REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS 
As required by section 163 (2) of the Companies 
Act No. 07 of 2007, we have obtained all the 
information and explanations that were required 
for the audit and as far as appears from our 
examination, proper accounting records have 
been kept by the Company.
CA Sri Lanka membership number of the 
engagement partner responsible for signing this 
independent auditor’s report is 2097. 
21 May 2024
Colombo

274 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
INCOME STATEMENT
In Rs.'000s
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
Note
2024
2023
2024
2023
Continuing operations 
Revenue from contracts with customers 
 262,338,375 
 260,687,372 
 2,916,390 
 2,543,712 
Revenue from insurance contracts 
 18,434,229 
 15,952,535 
 - 
 - 
Total revenue 
14
 280,772,604 
 276,639,907 
 2,916,390 
 2,543,712 
Cost of sales
 (226,490,684)
 (227,534,456)
 (1,782,895)
 (1,510,932)
Gross profit
 54,281,920 
 49,105,451 
 1,133,495 
 1,032,780 
Dividend income
15
 - 
 - 
 11,503,190 
 10,635,000 
Other operating income
16.1
 4,510,417 
 3,260,621 
 125,268 
 41,219 
Selling and distribution expenses
 (10,062,663)
 (8,266,060)
 - 
 - 
Administrative expenses
 (25,172,004)
 (21,583,579)
 (2,233,541)
 (1,742,998)
Other operating expenses
16.2
 (8,188,312)
 (9,825,773)
 (86,595)
 (748,154)
Results from operating activities
 15,369,358 
 12,690,660 
 10,441,817 
 9,217,847 
Finance cost
17
 (19,668,851)
 (17,802,868)
 (11,970,541)
 (8,778,825)
Finance income
17
 22,567,639 
 26,899,776 
 5,787,333 
 16,327,902 
Change in insurance contract liabilities
36.2
 (10,833,328)
 (7,650,232)
 - 
 - 
Change in fair value of investment properties
24
 450,092 
 878,538 
 - 
 - 
Share of results of equity accounted investees (net of tax)
27.3 
 10,129,014 
 7,573,543 
 - 
 - 
Profit before tax 
18
 18,013,924 
 22,589,417 
 4,258,609 
 16,766,924 
Tax expense
21.1
 (5,886,390)
 (3,693,293)
 (6,296)
 (2,057,640)
Profit for the year 
 12,127,534 
 18,896,124 
 4,252,313 
 14,709,284 
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent
 11,248,152 
 18,173,868 
Non-controlling interests
 879,382 
 722,256 
 12,127,534 
 18,896,124 
 Rs.
Rs. 
Earnings per share
Basic
19.1
8.06
 13.12 
Diluted
19.2
8.04
 13.12 
Dividend per share
20
 1.50 
 2.00 
Figures in brackets indicate deductions.
The accounting policies and notes as set out in pages 280 to 364 form an integral part of these financial statements.

275
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
In Rs.'000s
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
Note
2024
2023
2024
2023
Profit for the year
 12,127,534 
 18,896,124 
 4,252,313 
 14,709,284 
Other comprehensive income
Other comprehensive income to be reclassified to Income 
Statement in subsequent periods
Currency translation of foreign operations
 (11,608,304)
 4,936,383 
 - 
 - 
Net gain/(loss) on cash flow hedges
 (921,213)
 1,287,023 
 (921,213)
 1,287,023 
Net gain/(loss) on financial instruments at fair value through other 
comprehensive income
 6,016,598 
 (1,423,636)
 - 
 - 
Share of other comprehensive income of equity accounted 
investees (net of tax)
 (376,240)
 1,688,853 
 - 
 - 
Net other comprehensive income to be reclassified to Income 
Statement in subsequent periods
 (6,889,159)
 6,488,623 
 (921,213)
 1,287,023 
Other comprehensive income not to be reclassified to Income 
Statement in subsequent periods
Net gain / (loss) on equity instruments at fair value through other 
comprehensive income
 18,617 
 (2,312)
 16,699 
 (22,511)
Loss on disposal of equity instruments at fair value through other 
comprehensive income
 (1,631)
-
 (1,631)
 - 
Revaluation of land and buildings
22.1
 4,497,632 
 8,002,843 
 - 
-
Re-measurement gain / (loss) on defined benefit plans
38.2
 (539,839)
 81,295 
 (44,216)
 (49,113)
Share of other comprehensive income of equity accounted 
investees (net of tax)
 (36,663)
 (47,870)
-
-
Net other comprehensive income not to be reclassified to Income 
Statement in subsequent periods
 3,938,116 
 8,033,956 
 (29,148)
 (71,624)
Tax on other comprehensive income
21.2
 (1,109,091)
 (7,688,637)
-
-
Other comprehensive income for the period, net of tax
 (4,060,134)
 6,833,942 
 (950,361)
 1,215,399
 
Total comprehensive income for the period, net of tax 
 8,067,400 
 25,730,066 
 3,301,952
 15,924,683
Attributable to : 
Equity holders of the parent 
 6,552,703 
 24,448,793
Non-controlling interests 
 1,514,697 
 1,281,273 
 8,067,400 
 25,730,066 
Figures in brackets indicate deductions.
The accounting policies and notes as set out in pages 280 to 364 form an integral part of these financial statements.

276 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
In Rs.'000s
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
Note
2024
2023
2024
2023
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment
 22 
 382,988,534 
362,096,999
 117,585 
 140,420 
Right- of - use assets
 23 
 48,692,617 
 54,184,946 
 122,286 
 - 
Investment properties
 24 
 31,518,824 
 33,029,385 
 - 
 - 
Intangible assets
 25 
 6,329,125 
 5,792,766 
 34,778 
 62,812 
Investments in subsidiaries 
 26 
 - 
 - 
 217,905,867 
 198,074,611 
Investments in equity accounted investees
 27 
 48,151,204 
 38,486,146 
 21,541,092 
 16,217,500 
Non-current financial assets
 28 
 74,481,816 
 63,957,051 
 3,511,692 
 4,404,983 
Deferred tax assets
 21.4 
 1,716,261 
 2,582,275 
 - 
 - 
Other non-current assets
 29 
 3,202,936 
1,571,304
 95,240 
 125,931 
 597,081,317 
 561,700,872 
 243,328,540 
 219,026,257 
Current assets
Inventories
 30 
 39,305,503 
 39,094,514 
 - 
 - 
Trade and other receivables
 31 
 28,377,205 
 21,508,078 
 460,682 
 207,733 
Amounts due from related parties
 44.1 
 674,179 
 317,700 
 1,290,846 
 1,177,616 
Other current assets
 32 
 10,304,760 
 14,570,452 
 3,144,607 
 1,695,635 
Short term investments
 33 
 80,030,642 
 82,221,822 
 57,805,464 
 57,473,253 
Cash in hand and at bank
 15,417,894 
 25,092,977 
 556,930 
 8,232,006 
 174,110,183
 182,805,543 
 63,258,529 
 68,786,243 
Total assets
 771,191,500 
 744,506,415 
 306,587,069 
 287,812,500 
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent
Stated capital
 34.1 
 90,602,453 
 73,187,861 
 90,602,453 
 73,187,861 
Revenue reserves
 130,812,080 
 121,743,376 
 103,933,190 
 101,806,985 
Other components of equity
 34.2 
 136,452,778 
 146,091,034 
 11,804,788 
 18,055,005 
 357,867,311 
 341,022,271 
 206,340,431 
 193,049,851 
Non-controlling interest
 19,609,383
 19,396,186 
 - 
 - 
Total equity
 377,476,694
 360,418,457 
 206,340,431
 193,049,851
Non-current liabilities
Insurance contract liabilities
 36 
 69,510,867 
 58,907,310 
 - 
 - 
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
 37 
 127,169,502 
 159,778,892 
 55,044,493 
 66,907,718 
Lease liabilities
 23 
 28,080,571 
 32,052,489 
 109,139 
 - 
Deferred tax liabilities
 21.4 
 21,222,258 
 19,687,569 
 2,841,984 
 2,841,984 
Employee benefit liabilities
 38 
 3,590,783 
 2,559,632 
 326,926 
 219,756 
Non-current financial liabilities
 39 
 11,387,177 
 20,107,025 
 10,201,449 
 18,380,148 
Other non-current liabilities
 40 
615,445
 286,236 
 - 
 - 
 261,576,603 
 293,379,153 
 68,523,991 
 88,349,606 
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables
 41 
 42,582,596 
 29,866,282 
 1,463,935 
 631,405 
Amounts due to related parties
 44.2 
 448,743 
 3,615 
 88,841 
 58,244 
Income tax liabilities
 21.3 
 1,824,765 
 1,798,855 
 258,214 
 888,214 
Short term borrowings
 42 
 21,062,456 
 8,701,652 
 13,909,261 
 1,300,000 
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
 37 
 23,216,942 
 12,839,426 
 7,670,053 
 3,344,997 
Lease liabilities
 23 
 3,884,003 
 2,258,653 
 6,961 
 - 
Other current liabilities
 43 
 6,668,511 
 5,191,579 
 21,441 
 17,811 
Bank overdrafts
 32,450,187 
 30,048,743 
 8,303,941 
 172,372 
 132,138,203 
 90,708,805 
 31,722,647 
 6,413,043 
Total equity and liabilities
 771,191,500 
 744,506,415 
 306,587,069 
 287,812,500 
I certify that the financial statements comply with the requirements of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007.
K M Thanthirige
Group Financial Controller
The Board of Directors is responsible for these financial statements.
K N J Balendra	
J G A Cooray
Chairperson	
Deputy Chairperson/Group Finance Director
The accounting policies and Notes as set out in pages 280 to 364 form an integral part of these financial statements.
21 May 2024
Colombo

277
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
In Rs.'000s
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
Note
2024
2023
2024
2023
OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Profit / (loss) before working capital changes
A
 17,716,574 
 13,519,212 
 (826,092)
 (700,449)
(Increase) / Decrease in inventories
 919,195 
 (1,436,464)
-
 - 
(Increase) / Decrease in trade and other receivables
 (9,723,231)
 6,228,264 
 (366,183)
 (1,613,836)
(Increase) / Decrease in other current assets
 3,767,983 
 (2,913,286)
 (1,470,380)
 (1,563,482)
(Increase) / Decrease in non-current financial liabilities
 (541,150)
 (611,355)
 - 
 - 
Increase / (Decrease) in trade and other payables and other non-current liabilities
 13,983,771
 (10,489,973)
 863,127 
 102,485 
Increase / (Decrease) in other current liabilities
 1,478,227 
 909,897 
 127,932 
 17,811 
Increase / (Decrease) in insurance contract liabilities
 10,603,557 
 7,557,987 
 - 
 - 
Cash generated from operations
 38,204,926 
 12,764,282 
 (1,671,596)
 (3,757,471)
Finance income received
 18,732,221 
 24,591,483 
 5,420,803 
 13,711,513 
Finance costs paid
 (24,784,414)
 (23,456,856)
 (8,619,506)
 (6,036,736)
Dividend received
 4,869,454 
 5,705,389 
 11,349,209 
 10,402,546 
Tax paid
 (3,982,433)
 (6,143,062)
 (767,533)
 (2,050,396)
Surcharge tax paid
 - 
 (1,749,052)
 - 
 (665,629)
Gratuity paid
 (288,748)
 (267,819)
 (3,627)
 (3,886)
Net cash flows from operating activities
 32,751,006
 11,444,365 
 5,707,750 
 11,599,941 
INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Purchase and construction of property, plant and equipment
 (27,943,249)
 (7,073,858)
 (22,713)
 (102,340)
Purchase of intangible assets
 (1,004,633)
 (324,121)
 - 
 - 
Additions to investment properties
24
 (17,349)
 - 
 - 
 - 
Increase in interest in subsidiaries
 - 
 - 
 (19,584,830)
 (80,912,944)
Additions to other non-current assets
 (335,617)
 (31,650,785)
 - 
 - 
Increase in interest in equity accounted investees
 (5,637,340)
 (2,724,276)
 (5,169,612)
 (2,723,273)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
 379,226 
 400,669 
 755 
 - 
Proceeds from sale of financial instruments - fair value through profit or loss
 2,549,829 
 3,769,663 
 - 
 - 
Purchase of financial instruments - fair value through profit or loss
 (3,087,823)
 (4,133,677)
 - 
 - 
(Purchase) / disposal of deposits and government securities (net)
 (24,767,046)
 (36,905,173)
 (18,432,770)
 (19,516,441)
(Purchase) / disposal of other non-current financial assets (net)
 (217,102)
 (247,281)
 8,560 
 27,894 
Net cash flows from / (used in) investing activities
 (60,081,104)  (78,888,839)  (43,200,610)  (103,227,104)
FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Proceeds from issue of convertible debentures 
 - 
 27,056,250 
 - 
 27,056,250 
Proceeds from issue of shares 
 527,713 
 - 
 527,713 
 - 
Changes in non-controlling interest
 (115,392)
-
 - 
 - 
Dividend paid to equity holders of parent
 (2,080,473)
 (2,769,833)
 (2,080,473)
 (2,769,833)
Dividend paid to shareholders with non-controlling interest
 (882,399)
 (388,897)
 - 
 - 
Proceeds from long term borrowings
 2,106,129 
 2,077,091 
-
 - 
Repayment of long term borrowings
37.1
 (12,009,810)
 (45,034,878)
 (2,512,500)
 (1,837,500)
Payment of principal portion of lease liabilities
 (2,489,114)
 (2,471,652)
 (542)
 - 
Proceeds from / (repayment of) short term borrowings (net)
 11,903,072 
 (5,277,692)
 12,609,261 
 (700,000)
Net cash flows from / (used in) financing activities
 (3,040,274)  (26,809,611)
 8,543,459 
 21,748,917 
NET INCREASE / (DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
 (30,370,372)
 (94,254,085)
 (28,949,401)
 (69,878,246)
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT THE BEGINNING
 40,310,018 
 134,564,103 
 38,007,046 
 107,885,292 
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT THE END
 9,939,646 
 40,310,018 
 9,057,645 
 38,007,046 
ANALYSIS OF CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Favourable balances
Short term investments (less than 3 months)
33
 26,971,939 
 45,265,784 
 16,804,656 
 29,947,412 
Cash in hand and at bank
 15,417,894 
 25,092,977 
 556,930 
 8,232,006 
Unfavourable balances
Bank overdrafts
 (32,450,187)
 (30,048,743)
 (8,303,941)
 (172,372)
Total cash and cash equivalents
 9,939,646 
 40,310,018 
 9,057,645 
 38,007,046 
Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of financial position comprise cash at banks and in hand and short-term deposits with a maturity of three 
months or less. For the purpose of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and short-term deposits as defined above, net of 
outstanding bank overdrafts.
Figures in brackets indicate deductions.
The accounting policies and notes as set out in pages 280 to 364 form an integral part of these financial statements.

278 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
In Rs.'000s
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
Note
2024
2023
2024
2023
A 	 Profit before working capital changes
	
Profit before tax
 18,013,924
 22,589,417
 4,258,609
 16,766,924
	
Adjustments for:
Finance income
17  (22,567,639)  (26,899,776)
 (5,787,333)  (16,327,902)
Dividend income
15
 - 
 -  (11,503,190)  (10,635,000)
Finance costs
17
 19,668,851 
 17,802,868 
 11,970,541 
 8,778,825 
Share-based payment expense
35
 341,011 
 274,062 
 94,585 
 78,989 
Change in fair value of investment property
24
 (450,092)
 (878,538)
 - 
 - 
Share of results of equity accounted investees
27.3  (10,129,014)
 (7,573,543)
 - 
 - 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment
22.1,22.2
 6,545,420 
 6,280,610 
 44,805 
 45,153 
Provisions and impairment losses
16.2
 638,900 
 1,106,367 
-
 684,451 
	
(Profit) / loss on sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
16.1
 (8,214)
 (14,230)
 (11)
 - 
Amortisation of right- of - use assets
23.1
 3,931,743 
 4,151,230 
 1,287 
 - 
Amortisation of intangible assets
25.1
 987,012 
 852,249 
 28,034 
 31,551 
Employee benefit provision and related costs
 780,060 
 (195,682)
 66,581 
 (123,440)
Unrealised (gain) / loss on foreign exchange (net)
 (35,388)
 (3,975,822)
 - 
 - 
 17,716,574  13,519,212 
 (826,092)
 (700,449)
COMPANY
Stated
capital
Other
capital
reserve
 Cash flow 
 hedge 
 reserve
 Fair value reserve
of financial assets
at FVOCI*
Revenue
reserve
Total
equity
 In Rs.'000s 
As at 1 April 2022
 73,187,861
 3,060,095
 2,928,815 
 21,171 
 89,916,647
 169,114,589
Profit for the year
-
-
-
-
14,709,284
14,709,284
Other comprehensive income
 - 
 - 
 1,287,023 
 (22,511)
 (49,113)
 1,215,399 
Total comprehensive income
 - 
 - 
 1,287,023 
 (22,511)
 14,660,171 
 15,924,683 
Share based payments
 - 
 274,062 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 274,062 
Issue of convertible debentures
 - 
 10,506,350 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 10,506,350 
Final dividend paid - 2021/22
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (692,458)
 (692,458)
Interim dividends paid - 2022/23
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (2,077,375)
 (2,077,375)
As at 31 March 2023
 73,187,861 
 13,840,507 
 4,215,838 
 (1,340)
 101,806,985 
 193,049,851 
As at 1 April 2023
 73,187,861
 13,840,507
 4,215,838
 (1,340)
 101,806,985
 193,049,851
Profit for the year
-
-
-
-
 4,252,313 
 4,252,313 
Other comprehensive income
 - 
 - 
 (921,213)
 16,699 
 (45,847)
 (950,361)
Total comprehensive income
 - 
 - 
 (921,213)
 16,699 
 4,206,466 
 3,301,952 
Exercise of share options
 527,713 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 527,713 
Transfer of fair value reserve of 
equity instruments designated 
at FVOCI
 - 
 - 
 - 
(212)
212
 - 
Conversion of convertible 
debentures
 16,753,283 
 (5,552,906)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 11,200,377 
Share based payments
 133,596 
 207,415 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 341,011 
Final dividend paid - 2022/23
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (692,458)
 (692,458)
Interim dividends paid - 2023/24
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (1,388,015)
 (1,388,015)
As at 31 March 2024
 90,602,453 
 8,495,016 
 3,294,625 
 15,147 
 103,933,190 
 206,340,431 
* Fair value through other comprehensive income. 
Figures in brackets indicate deductions.
The accounting policies and notes as set out in pages 280 to 364 form an integral part of these financial statements.

279
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
GROUP
Attributable to equity holders of the parent
Stated
capital
Restricted 
regulatory
reserve
Revaluation
reserve
Foreign
currency
translation
reserve
 Cash flow 
 hedge 
 reserve 
Other
capital
reserve
 Fair value 
reserve
of financial 
assets
at FVOCI*
 Revenue 
 reserve
Total
Non-
controlling
interests
Total
equity
 In Rs.'000s 
 As at 1 April 2022 
 73,187,861 
 3,626,604  41,012,553  79,185,589 
 2,928,815 
 3,060,095 
 (802,243) 106,133,124  308,332,398
 18,734,311  327,066,709
 Profit for the year 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
 18,173,868 
 18,173,868 
 722,256 
 18,896,124 
 Other comprehensive income 
-
-
 128,669 
 5,408,613 
 1,287,023 
 - 
 (520,849)
 (28,531)
 6,274,925 
 559,017 
 6,833,942 
 Total comprehensive income 
 - 
 - 
 128,669 
 5,408,613 
 1,287,023 
 - 
 (520,849)
 18,145,337 
 24,448,793 
 1,281,273 
 25,730,066 
 Transfer from revaluation reserves to 
retained earnings 
 - 
 - 
 (4,247)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 4,247 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Share based payments 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 274,062 
 - 
 - 
 274,062 
 - 
 274,062 
 Final dividend paid - 2021/22 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (692,458)
 (692,458)
 - 
 (692,458)
 Interim dividends paid - 2022/23 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (2,077,375)
 (2,077,375)
 - 
 (2,077,375)
Issue of convertible debentures
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 10,506,350 
 - 
 - 
 10,506,350 
 - 
 10,506,350 
 Subsidiary dividend to non-controlling 
interest 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 230,501 
 230,501 
 (619,398)
 (388,897)
 As at 31 March 2023 
 73,187,861 
 3,626,604  41,136,975  84,594,202 
 4,215,838  13,840,507 
 (1,323,092) 121,743,376  341,022,271  19,396,186  360,418,457 
 As at 1 April 2023 
 73,187,861
 3,626,604
 41,136,975
 84,594,202
 4,215,838
 13,840,507
 (1,323,092) 121,743,376  341,022,271
 19,396,186  360,418,457
 Profit for the year 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
11,248,152
11,248,152
879,382
12,127,534
 Other comprehensive income 
-
-
 2,675,485  (12,945,051)
 (921,213)
 - 
 6,902,473 
 (407,143)
 (4,695,449)
 635,315 
 (4,060,134)
 Total comprehensive income 
 - 
 - 
 2,675,485  (12,945,051)
 (921,213)
 - 
 6,902,473 
 10,841,009
 6,552,703 
 1,514,697 
 8,067,400 
 Transfer from revaluation reserves to 
retained earnings 
 - 
 - 
 (4,247)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 4,247 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Transfer of fair value reserve of equity 
instruments designated at FVOCI
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(212)
212
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Exercise of share options 
 527,713 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 527,713 
 - 
 527,713 
 Conversion of convertible debentures 
 16,753,283 
-
-
-
-
 (5,552,906)
-
-
 11,200,377 
-
 11,200,377 
 Share based payments 
 133,596 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 207,415 
 - 
 - 
 341,011 
 - 
 341,011 
 Final dividend paid - 2022/23 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (692,458)
 (692,458)
 - 
 (692,458)
 Interim dividends paid - 2023/24 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (1,388,015)
 (1,388,015)
 - 
 (1,388,015)
 Subsidiary dividend to non-controlling 
interest 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 303,709 
 303,709 
 (1,186,108)
 (882,399)
 Acquisition, disposal and changes in non-
controlling interest 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (115,392)
 (115,392)
 As at 31 March 2024 
 90,602,453
 3,626,604  43,808,213  71,649,151 
 3,294,625 
 8,495,016 
 5,579,169  130,812,080  357,867,311  19,609,383  377,476,694 
 * Fair value through other comprehensive income 
 Figures in brackets indicate deductions. 
 The accounting policies and notes as set out in pages 280 to 364 form an integral part of these financial statements. 

280 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE AND GROUP INFORMATION 
1. 	
CORPORATE INFORMATION 
Reporting entity
John Keells Holdings PLC is a public limited liability Company 
incorporated and domiciled in Sri Lanka. The registered office and 
principal place of business of the Company is located at 117, Sir 
Chittampalam A Gardiner Mawatha, Colombo 2.
Ordinary shares of the Company are listed on the Colombo Stock 
Exchange. 
John Keells Holdings PLC became the holding Company of the Group 
during the financial year ended 31 March 1986.
Consolidated financial statements
The financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2024 comprise 
“the Company” referring to John Keells Holdings PLC as the holding 
Company and “the Group” referring to the companies that have been 
consolidated therein. 
Approval of financial statements
The financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2024 were 
authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 21 May 2024.
Principal activities and nature of operations of the holding 
Company
John Keells Holdings PLC, the Group’s holding Company, manages 
a portfolio of investments consisting of a range of diverse business 
operations, which together constitute the John Keells Group, and 
provides function based services to its subsidiaries, jointly controlled 
entities and associates.
Responsibility for financial statements
The responsibility of the Board of Directors in relation to the financial 
statements is set out in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibility report 
in the Annual report.
Statements of compliance
The financial statements which comprise the income statement, 
statement of comprehensive income, statement of financial position, 
statement of changes in equity and the statement of cash flows, 
together with the accounting policies and notes (the “financial 
statements”) have been prepared in accordance with Sri Lanka 
Accounting Standards (SLFRS/ LKAS) as issued by the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka) and in compliance 
with the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007.
2. 	
GROUP INFORMATION 
Subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures
The companies within the Group and its business activities are described 
in the Group Directory under the Supplementary Information section of 
the Annual Report.
There were no significant changes in the nature of the principal activities 
of the Company and the Group during the financial year under review.
BASIS OF PREPARATION AND OTHER MATERIAL ACCOUNTING 
POLICIES
3. 	
BASIS OF PREPARATION 
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on an accrual 
basis and under the historical cost convention except for investment 
properties, land and buildings, derivative financial instruments, fair 
value through profit or loss financial assets and financial instruments 
measured at fair value through other comprehensive income that have 
been measured at fair value.
Going Concern
The Group has prepared the financial statements for the year ended 
31 March 2024 on the basis that it will continue to operate as a going 
concern. Based on available information, the management has assessed 
prevailing macroeconomic conditions and its effect on the Group 
companies in determining the going concern basis for preparation of 
the financial statements.
The management has formed judgment that the Company, its 
subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures have adequate resources 
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future driven 
by the continuous operationalisation of risk mitigation initiatives and 
monitoring of business continuity and response plans at each business 
unit level along with the financial strength of the Group. 
In determining the above, significant management judgement, 
estimates and assumptions, the impact of the macroeconomic 
uncertainties, including exchange rate volatility and interest rate 
volatility have been considered as of the reporting date and specific 
considerations have been disclosed under the notes, as relevant.
Offsetting
Assets and liabilities or income and expenses, are not offset unless 
required or permitted by Sri Lanka Accounting Standards.
Presentation of functional currency
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sri Lankan 
Rupees (Rs), which is the primary economic environment in which the 
holding Company operates. Each entity in the Group uses the currency 
of the primary economic environment in which they operate as their 
functional currency. 

281
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
The following subsidiaries are using different functional currencies other 
than Sri Lankan Rupees (Rs):
Country of 
incorporation
Functional 
Currency
Name of the Subsidiary 
Singapore
Singapore 
Dollar (SGD)
John Keells Singapore (Pte) Ltd
Republic of 
Maldives
United States 
Dollar (USD)
Fantasea World Investments (Pte) Ltd
John Keells Maldivian Resort (Pte) Ltd
Mack Air Services Maldives (Pte) Ltd
Tranquility (Pte) Ltd
Travel Club (Pte) Ltd
Mauritius
United States 
Dollar (USD)
John Keells BPO Holdings (Pvt) Ltd
John Keells BPO International (Pvt) 
Ltd
Each material class of similar items is presented cumulatively in the 
Financial Statements. Items of dissimilar nature or function are presented 
separately unless they are immaterial as permitted by the Sri Lanka 
Accounting Standard-LKAS 1 on ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’.
All values are rounded to the nearest rupees thousand (Rs.’000) except 
when otherwise indicated.
The material accounting policies are discussed with relevant individual 
notes.
The indicative US Dollar financial statements under Supplementary 
Information section of the Annual Report do not form a part of the 
financial statements prepared in accordance with SLFRS/LKAS.	
Comparative information
The presentation and classification of the financial statements of 
the previous years have been amended, where relevant for better 
presentation and to be comparable with those of the current year.
Amendments to the financial statements due to changes in accounting 
standards are discussed in Note 6. 
4. 	
SUMMARY OF MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
Summary of material accounting policies have been disclosed along 
with the relevant individual notes in the subsequent pages.
Those accounting policies presented with each note, have been applied 
consistently by the Group.
Other material accounting policies not disclosed with individual 
notes
Following accounting policies, which have been applied consistently by 
the Group, are considered to be material but not covered in any other 
sections.
Current versus non-current classification 
The Group presents assets and liabilities in statement of financial 
position based on current/non-current classification. An asset as current 
when it is:
• 	 Expected to be realised or intended to be sold or consumed in normal 
operating cycle
• 	 Held primarily for the purpose of trading
• 	 Expected to be realised within twelve months after the reporting 
period, or
• 	 Cash or cash equivalent unless restricted from being exchanged or 
used to settle a liability for at least twelve months after the reporting 
period
All other assets are classified as non-current.
A liability is current when:
• 	 It is expected to be settled in normal operating cycle
• 	 It is held primarily for the purpose of trading 
• 	 It is due to be settled within twelve months after the reporting period
• 	 There is no unconditional right to defer the settlement of the liability 
for at least twelve months after the reporting period
The Group classifies all other liabilities as non-current. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as non-current assets and 
liabilities. 
Foreign currency translation, foreign currency  
transactions and balances
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sri Lanka Rupees 
(Rs), which is the Company’s functional and presentation currency. 
The functional currency is the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the entities of the Group operate. All foreign 
exchange transactions are converted to functional currency, at the 
rates of exchange prevailing at the time the transactions are effected. 
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currency are 
retranslated to functional currency equivalents at the spot exchange rate 
prevailing at the reporting date.	
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in 
a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the 
dates of the initial transactions. Non monetary assets and liabilities are 
translated using exchange rates that existed when the values were 
determined. The gain or loss arising on translation of non-monetary 
items is treated in line with the recognition of gain or loss on changing 
fair value of the item.
Change in functional currency of Waterfront Properties (Pvt) Ltd 
(WPL)
In August 2023, the functional reporting currency of Waterfront 
Properties (Private) Limited (WPL), the project company of the City of 
Dreams Sri Lanka, was changed from US Dollars (USD) to Sri Lankan 
Rupees (Rs.) given the impending transition of the project from 
construction to an operational business next year. The appreciation 
of the rupee against the USD post-transition resulted in a non-cash 
exchange gain of Rs. 3.01 billion on the USD 225 million term loan 
facility at WPL, which is recognised under Finance Income in the Leisure 
industry group.
The change in functional currency has been accounted for prospectively 
from August 2023 in accordance with LKAS 21 The Effects of Changes in 
Foreign Exchange Rates.	

282 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Foreign operations
The statement of financial position and income statement of overseas 
subsidiaries which are deemed to be foreign operations are translated 
to Sri Lanka rupees at the rate of exchange prevailing as at the reporting 
date and at the average annual rate of exchange for the period 
respectively.
The exchange differences arising on the translation are taken directly 
to other comprehensive income. On disposal of a foreign entity, the 
deferred cumulative amount recognised in other comprehensive 
income relating to that particular foreign operation is recognised in the 
income statement.
The Group treated goodwill and any fair value adjustments to the 
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities arising on the acquisition as 
assets and liabilities of the parent. Therefore, those assets and liabilities 
are non-monetary items already expressed in the functional currency of 
the parent and no further translation differences occur.
5. 	
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS, ESTIMATES AND 
ASSUMPTIONS 
The preparation of the financial statements of the Group require the 
management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions, which 
may affect the amounts of income, expenditure, assets, liabilities and the 
disclosure of contingent liabilities, at the end of the reporting period.
Uncertainty about these assumptions and estimates could result in 
outcomes that require a material adjustment to the carrying amount of 
assets or liabilities affected in future periods. In the process of applying 
the Group’s accounting policies, management has made various 
judgements. Those which management has assessed to have the 
most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the consolidated 
financial statements have been discussed in the individual notes of the 
related financial statement line items.
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of 
estimation uncertainty at the reporting date, that have a significant 
risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets 
and liabilities within the next financial year, are also described in the 
individual notes to the financial statements. The Group based its 
assumptions and estimates on parameters available when the financial 
statements were prepared. Existing circumstances and assumptions 
about future developments, however, may change due to market 
changes or circumstances arising that are beyond the control of the 
Group. Such changes are reflected in the assumptions when they occur.
The items which have most significant effect on accounting, 
judgements, estimate and assumptions are as follows;
a)	Going concern basis
b)	Valuation of property, plant and equipment and investment property
c)	Impairment of non-financial assets
d)	Share based payments
e)	Taxes
f)	Employee benefit liability
g)	Valuation of insurance contract liabilities
h)	Provision for expected credit losses of trade receivables and contract 
assets
i)	 Leases 
The Group performed impairment testing for non-current assets with 
the indicators of impairment in accordance with the accounting policies 
stated in Note 22 Property, Plant and equipment, Note 23 Right of use 
assets, Note 24 Investment property and Note 25 Intangible assets. 
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the asset’s 
carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable 
amounts of cash generating units are the higher of asset’s fair value less 
costs of disposals and value in use. These calculations require the use of 
estimates, assumptions and judgements. The discount rate used is the 
risk free rate, adjusted by the addition of an appropriate risk premium.
The Group assesses the fair value of its property, plant and equipment 
and investment property based on valuations determined by 
independent qualified valuers’ best estimate based on the market 
conditions that prevailed, which in the valuers’ considered opinion, 
meets the requirements in SLFRS-13 Fair Value Measurement.
6. 	
CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING STANDARDS 
The following amendments and improvements are not expected to have 
a significant impact on the Group's financial statements.
Amendments to LKAS 1 : Disclosure of Accounting Policies
Amendments to LKAS 8 : Definition of Accounting Estimate
Amendments to LKAS 12 : Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities 
arising from a Single Transaction	
7.	
 STANDARDS ISSUED BUT NOT YET EFFECTIVE
SLFRS 17 - Insurance Contracts
As recommended by the Accounting Standards Committee, the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (ICASL) has decided to 
adopt SLFRS 17 - Insurance Contracts with effect from annual reporting 
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2025. However to facilitate 
a seamless transition and allow ample time for implementation, the 
Council of ICASL has granted approval for another one-year extension 
in the effective date of SLFRS 17. Consequently, SLFRS 17 will now be 
applicable for the annual reporting period commencing on or after 1 
January 2026. Simultaneously, the mandatory application of SLFRS 9, 
which has implications for the insurance industry, will also take effect 
from 1 January 2026, aligning with the deferred implementation of 
SLFRS 17.
Early adoption along with the adoption of SLFRS 9 - Financial 
Instruments and SLFRS 15 - Revenue from Contracts with Customers 
is permitted if the regulator permits. SLFRS 17 supersedes SLFRS 4 - 
Insurance Contracts.
SLFRS 4 permitted insurers to continue to use the statutory basis of 
accounting for insurance assets and liabilities that existed in their 
jurisdictions prior to January 2005. SLFRS 17 replaces this with a new 
measurement model for all insurance contracts.
SLFRS 17 requires liabilities for insurance contracts to be recognised 
as the present value of future cash flows, incorporating an explicit risk 
adjustment, which is updated at each reporting date to reflect current 
conditions, and a contractual service margin (CSM) that is equal and 
opposite to any day-one gain arising on initial recognition. Losses 
are recognised directly into the income statement. For measurement 
purposes, contracts are grouped together into contracts of similar risk, 
profitability profile and issue year, with further divisions for contracts that 
are managed separately.

283
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Profit for insurance contracts under SLFRS 17 is represented by the 
recognition of the services provided to policyholders in the period 
(release of the CSM), release from non-economic risk (release of risk 
adjustment) and investment profit.
The CSM is released as profit over the coverage period of the insurance 
contract, reflecting the delivery of services of the policyholder. For 
certain contracts with participating features (where a substantial share 
of the fair value of the related investments and other underlying items is 
paid to policyholders) the CSM reflects the variable fee to shareholders. 
For these contracts, the CSM is adjusted to reflect the changes in 
economic experience and assumptions. For all other contracts the CSM 
is only adjusted for non-economic assumptions.
SLFRS 17 introduces a new measure of insurance revenue, based on 
the delivery of services to policyholders and excluding any premiums 
related to the investment elements of policies, which will be significantly 
different from existing premium revenue measures, currently reported 
in the income statement. In order to transition to SLFRS 17, the amount 
of deferred profit, being the CSM at transition date, needs to be 
determined.
SLFRS 17 requires, this CSM to be calculated as if the standard had 
applied retrospectively. If this is not practical, an entity is required to 
choose either a simplified retrospective approach or determine the CSM 
by reference to the fair value of the liabilities at the transition date. The 
approach for determining the CSM will have a significant impact on both 
shareholders’ equity and on the amount of profits on in-force business in 
future reporting periods.
SLFRS 17 Implementation Programme – Union Assurance PLC (UA)
SLFRS 17 is expected to have a significant impact, as the requirements 
of the new standard are complex and requires a fundamental change 
to accounting for insurance contracts as well as the application of 
significant judgement and new estimation techniques. The effect of 
changes required to UA’s accounting policies as a result of implementing 
these standards are currently uncertain, but these changes can be 
expected to, among other things, alter the timing of profit recognition. 
Given the implementation of this standard is likely to involve crucial 
enhancements to IT, actuarial and finance systems of UA, significant 
investments are made to ensure smooth transition & operations.
UA has an implementation programme underway to implement 
SLFRS 17 and SLFRS 9. The scope of the programme consists of setting 
accounting policies and developing application methodologies, 
establishing appropriate processes and controls, sourcing appropriate 
data and implementing actuarial and finance system changes.
SLFRS 17 Steering Committee has been formed to ensure strategic, 
tactical, and operational readiness for the implementation of SLFRS 17. 
UA has made steady progress in the SLFRS 17 implementation journey 
and awarded a proof of concept (POC) to a selected vendor. Throughout 
this process, the vendor successfully addressed the requirements using 
their ready-made software with minimal customisations.
With this positive feedback from the POC, the SLFRS 17 Steering 
Committee has granted approval to proceed with contracting the 
respective vendor for the implementation of SLFRS 17. A detailed 
progress of the SLFRS 17 project along with the governing structure 
and project timelines are given in Finance Capital section of the Annual 
Report in page 191.
UA is on track to providing SLFRS 17 financial statements in line with 
the requirements when it becomes effective. Governing structure and 
project timelines are given in the Finance Capital section of Annual 
Report.
The following amendments and improvements are not expected to have 
a significant impact on the Group’s financial statements. 
Amendments to LKAS 1: Non-Current liabilities with Covenants	
Amendments to LKAS 7 and SLFRS 7: Supplier Finance Arrangements	
Amendments to SLFRS 16: Lease Liability in a Sale and Leaseback	
Amendment to LKAS 21: Lack of Exchangeability	 	
Amendments to SLFRS 10 and LKAS 28: Sale or Contribution of Assets 
between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture

284 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
8.1 	
Business segments
In Rs.'000s
Transportation
Consumer Foods
Retail
For the year ended 31 March
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
Disaggregation of revenue - Timing of revenue recognition
Goods transferred at a point in time 
 48,770,859 
 71,301,704 
 35,532,797 
 33,776,305 
 122,601,877 
 106,922,269 
Services transferred over time
 2,784,462 
 3,177,956 
 - 
 - 
 162,966 
 133,559 
Total segment revenue
 51,555,321 
 74,479,660 
 35,532,797 
 33,776,305 
 122,764,843 
 107,055,828 
Elimination of inter segment revenue
External revenue
Segment results
 1,740,516
 4,253,990
 3,624,233
 2,060,269
 6,080,922
 4,463,112
Finance cost
 (673,419)
 (719,143)
 (754,908)
 (958,157)
 (3,205,414)
 (4,096,912)
Finance income
 329,639 
 260,451 
 61,939 
 65,532 
 77,096 
 196,401 
Change in fair value of investment properties
 - 
 - 
 16,955 
 24,149 
 4,914 
 (3,085)
Share of results of equity accounted investees 
 6,207,278 
 5,774,946 
 - 
 - 
 (24,475)
 - 
Eliminations / adjustments
 - 
 - 
 25,672 
 (28,112)
 5,263 
 (1,453)
Profit / (loss) before tax
 7,604,014 
 9,570,244 
 2,973,891 
 1,163,681 
 2,938,306 
 558,063 
Tax expense
 (133,962)
 (560,375)
 (800,133)
 580,918
 (882,245)
 737,612
Profit/ (loss) for the year
 7,470,052
 9,009,869
 2,173,758
 1,744,599
 2,056,061
 1,295,675
 Purchase and construction of PPE* 
 702,830 
 331,667 
 1,217,802 
 1,026,914 
 1,695,197 
 3,041,194 
 Addition to IA* 
 - 
 - 
 721,187 
 539,752 
 642,965 
 642,701 
 Depreciation of PPE* 
 187,128 
 187,335 
 1,102,454 
 1,025,718 
 1,743,856 
 1,642,420 
 Amortisation of IA* 
 8,377 
 8,434 
 124,776 
 56,062 
 413,660 
 359,672 
 Amortisation of ROU* 
 102,835 
 75,112 
 8,317 
 4,347 
 1,148,383 
 1,153,054 
 Employee benefit provision and related costs 
 (10,893)
 10,327 
 148,416 
 2,020 
 153,913 
39,573
In addition to segment results, information such as finance costs / income, tax expenses has been allocated to segments for better presentation.
* PPE - Property, plant and equipment, IA - Intangible assets, ROU - Right-of-use assets
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
GROUP BUSINESS, OPERATIONS AND MANAGEMENT 
8.	
OPERATING SEGMENT INFORMATION 
Accounting policy 
The Group’s internal organisation and management is structured 
based on individual products and services which are similar in nature 
and process and where the risks and returns are similar. The operating 
segments represent this business structure. 
In addition, segments are determined based on the Group’s 
geographical spread of operations as well. The geographical analysis 
of turnover and profits are based on location of customers and assets 
respectively. 
The activities of each of the operating business segments of the Group 
are detailed in the Group directory in the Supplementary section of the 
Annual report.
The Group has now organised its business units into seven reportable 
operating segments based on their products and services as follows:
Transportation
This operating segment provides an array of transportation related 
services, which comprise of container terminals in the Port of Colombo, 
a marine bunkering business, domestic airline, joint venture/associations 
with leading shipping, logistics and air transportation multinationals as 
well as travel and airlines services in Sri Lanka and the Maldives.
Consumer Foods
Consumer foods segment focuses on manufacturing of a wide 
range of soft drinks, dairy products, ice creams and processed foods 
which competes in three major categories namely beverages, frozen 
confectionery and convenience foods.
Retail
Retail segment focuses on modern organised retailing through a chain 
of supermarkets, multi-use international logistics centre, distribution of 
printers, copiers, smartphones and other office automation equipment 
and Importing and selling new energy vehicles and providing after sales 
services.

285
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Leisure
Property
Financial Services
Others
Group Total
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
 - 
 - 
 - 
 552,474 
 - 
 - 
 3,055,960 
 3,743,937 
 209,961,493 
 216,296,689 
 47,946,329 
 39,731,355 
 1,919,026 
 1,875,744 
 18,664,852 
 16,202,957 
 6,331,706 
 6,699,917 
 77,809,341 
 67,821,488 
 47,946,329 
 39,731,355 
 1,919,026 
 2,428,218 
 18,664,852 
 16,202,957 
 9,387,666 
 10,443,854 
 287,770,834 
 284,118,177 
 (6,998,230)
 (7,478,270)
 280,772,604 
 276,639,907 
 3,461,766
 2,398,333
 (710,003)
 (1,627,298)
 4,758,059
 3,626,660
 (1,383,336)
 (825,919)
 17,572,157
 14,349,147
 (3,239,205)
 (3,084,504)
 (121,551)
 (122,006)
 (63)
 (12)
 (11,674,291)
 (8,822,134)
 (19,668,851)
 (17,802,868)
 3,163,845 
 292,374 
 211,248 
 299,854 
 204,080 
 178,486 
 5,682,585 
 16,682,719 
 9,730,432 
 17,975,817 
 98,250 
 201,400 
 232,559 
 525,342 
 - 
 - 
 97,414 
 130,732 
 450,092 
 878,538 
 24,745 
 (19,653)
 (408,621)
 (1,127,788)
 4,330,087 
 2,946,038 
 - 
 - 
 10,129,014 
 7,573,543 
 (98,579)
 (217,825)
 (60,954)
 (83,057)
 615 
 - 
 (70,937)
 (54,313)
 (198,920)
 (384,760)
 3,410,822 
 (429,875)
 (857,322)
 (2,134,953)
 9,292,778 
 6,751,172 
 (7,348,565)
 7,111,085 
 18,013,924 
 22,589,417 
 (695,457)
 76,220
 288,502
 (215,164)
 (1,498,960)
 (1,077,835)
 (2,164,135)
 (3,234,669)
 (5,886,390)
 (3,693,293)
 2,715,365
 (353,655)
 (568,820)
 (2,350,117)
 7,793,818
 5,673,337
 (9,512,700)
 3,876,416
 12,127,534
 18,896,124
 31,473,575 
 1,996,884 
 385,952 
 112,907 
 93,406 
 117,516 
 204,000 
 446,776 
 35,772,762 
 7,073,858 
 18,320 
 5,050 
 - 
 - 
 125,157 
 74,818 
 15,823 
 33,469 
 1,523,452 
 1,295,790 
 3,119,972 
 3,080,095 
 73,222 
 62,701 
 117,724 
 118,669 
 201,064 
 163,672 
 6,545,420 
 6,280,610 
 64,930 
 75,607 
 6,500 
 6,601 
 308,640 
 294,149 
 60,129 
 51,724 
 987,012 
 852,249 
 2,470,098 
 2,771,224 
 20,455 
 20,477 
 132,987 
 125,838 
 48,668 
 1,178 
 3,931,743 
 4,151,230 
 259,575 
 (42,308)
 22,169 
(27,520)
 57,169 
 (62,150)
 149,711
 (115,624)
 780,060 
 (195,682)
Leisure
The leisure segment comprises of five-star city hotels, a lean luxury hotel, 
resort hotels spread across prime tourist locations in Sri Lanka as well as 
Maldives, and a destination management business in Sri Lanka.
Property
Property industry group consists of the property development sector 
and the property management sector which includes renting of 
commercial office spaces and management of the Group’s real estate.
Financial Services
The segment engages in a broad range of financial services including 
insurance, commercial banking, debt trading, fund management, leasing 
and stock broking. 
Others
This reportable segment represents companies in the plantation 
industry, Information technology, management and holding Company 
of the Group as well as several ancillary companies.
Segment information has been prepared in conformity with the 
accounting policies adopted for preparing and presenting the 
consolidated financial statements of the Group.
No operating segments have been aggregated to form the above 
reportable operating segments. An individual segment manager is 
determined for each operating segment and the results are regularly 
reviewed by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors monitors 
the operating results of its business units separately for the purpose 
of making decisions about resource allocation and performance 
assessment. Segment performance is evaluated based on operating 
profit or loss which in certain respects, as explained in the operating 
segments’ information, is measured differently from operating profit 
or loss in the consolidated financial statements. However, except the 
Financial Services segment, other segments’ financing activities are 
managed on a group basis and are not allocated to operating segments. 
Pricing between operating segments comply with the arm’s length 
principals relating to transfer pricing in the ordinary course of business.

286 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
8.	
OPERATING SEGMENT INFORMATION (CONTD.)
8.2.	
Business segments
The following table presents segment assets and liabilities of the Group’s business segments. 
In Rs.'000s
Transportation
Consumer Foods
Retail
As at
31.03.2024
31.03.2023
31.03.2024
31.03.2023
31.03.2024
31.03.2023
 Property, plant and equipment 
 1,338,007 
 1,065,820 
 11,102,360 
 10,822,124 
 18,496,255 
 18,294,522 
 Right-of-use-assets 
 310,075 
 549,380 
 258,984 
 267,301 
 9,894,229 
 9,539,807 
 Investment properties
 - 
 - 
 358,353 
 341,398 
 309,388 
 304,474 
 Intangible assets 
 56,623 
 65,000 
 1,801,995 
 1,182,500 
 2,819,436 
 2,557,066 
 Non-current financial assets 
 141,523 
 125,974 
 383,357 
 273,966 
 264,693 
 218,490 
 Other non-current assets 
 51,170 
 51,972 
 58,448 
 128,962 
 1,113,273 
 993,260 
 Segment non-current assets 
 1,897,398 
 1,858,146 
 13,963,497 
 13,016,251 
 32,897,274 
 31,907,619 
 Investments in equity accounted investees 
 21,911,210
 17,769,439
-
-
 (24,475)
-
 Deferred tax assets 
 Goodwill 
 Eliminations / adjustments 
 Total non-current assets 
 Inventories 
 2,125,399 
 462,430 
 4,722,058 
 5,541,602 
 10,271,009 
 11,173,246 
 Trade and other receivables 
 6,585,354 
 2,799,055 
 5,944,817 
 4,660,106 
 4,887,289 
 2,639,958 
 Short term investments 
 4,956,582 
 6,665,675 
 580 
-
 1,165 
 243,742 
 Cash in hand and at bank 
 1,740,615 
 3,012,674 
 728,188 
 547,979 
 1,593,322 
 1,335,771 
 Segment current assets 
 15,407,950 
 12,939,834 
 11,395,643 
 10,749,687 
 16,752,785 
 15,392,717 
 Other current assets 
 Eliminations / adjustments 
 Total current assets 
 Total assets 
 Insurance contract liabilities 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 
 510,125 
 199,760 
 746,614 
 227,802 
2,416,957
 6,622,609 
 Lease liabilities 
 344,656 
 573,466 
 138,715 
 160,906 
10,691,302
 9,840,263 
 Employee benefit liabilities 
 126,498 
 118,217 
 752,078 
 523,330 
594,249
 410,492 
 Non-current financial liabilities 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
-
 - 
 Other non-current liabilities 
 - 
 - 
 111,259 
 104,036 
-
 - 
 Segment non-current liabilities 
 981,279 
 891,443 
 1,748,666 
 1,016,074 
 13,702,508 
 16,873,364 
 Deferred tax liabilities 
 Eliminations / adjustments 
 Total non-current liabilities 
 Trade and other payables 
 6,991,638
 2,970,264 
 4,014,970 
 3,716,255 
18,015,627
 13,838,670 
 Short term borrowings 
 5,108,357
 5,943,802 
 500,000 
 262,177 
1,003,879
 1,205,078 
 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 
-
 2,000 
 467,966 
 391,775 
4,260,000
 2,068,696 
 Lease liabilities
-
 - 
 4,804 
 1,829 
687,580
 652,273 
 Bank overdrafts 
 1,270,728 
 2,545,939 
 3,523,068 
 5,653,860 
7,018,292
 10,625,490 
 Segment current liabilities 
 13,370,723 
 11,462,005 
 8,510,808 
 10,025,896 
30,985,378
 28,390,207 
 Income tax liabilities 
 Other current liabilities 
 Eliminations / adjustments 
 Total current liabilities 
 Total liabilities 
 Total segment assets 
 17,305,348 
 14,797,980 
 25,359,140 
 23,765,938 
49,650,059
 47,300,336 
 Total segment liabilities 
 14,352,002 
 12,353,448 
 10,259,474 
 11,041,970 
44,687,886
 45,263,571 
Inter company investments made by the Group of companies have not been considered for the calculation of segment assets.

287
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Leisure
Property
Financial Services
Others
Group Total
31.03.2024
31.03.2023
31.03.2024
31.03.2023
31.03.2024
31.03.2023
31.03.2024
31.03.2023
31.03.2024
31.03.2023
 316,955,748 
297,722,918
 5,161,817 
 5,126,480 
 3,012,007 
 2,737,024 
 2,126,685 
 1,935,074 
 358,192,879 
 337,703,962 
 36,326,515 
 42,150,699 
 207,405 
 210,292 
 401,343 
 425,118 
 225,805 
 33,622 
 47,624,356 
 53,176,219 
 5,312,616 
 5,117,334 
 48,354,871 
 49,925,083 
 - 
 - 
 2,912,467 
 2,596,897 
 57,247,695 
 58,285,186 
 83,320 
 129,931 
 334 
 500 
 1,067,185 
 1,251,283 
 129,616 
 180,255 
 5,958,509 
 5,366,535 
 9,415,821 
 10,869,131 
 17,828 
 27,692 
 69,637,501 
 58,388,861 
 3,849,944 
 4,775,231 
 83,710,667 
 74,679,345 
 77,648 
77,072
 1,510,820 
 - 
 103,655 
 86,193 
 287,922 
 233,844 
 3,202,936 
 1,571,303 
 368,171,668 
 356,067,085 
 55,253,075 
 55,290,047 
 74,221,691 
 62,888,479 
 9,532,439 
 9,754,923 
 555,937,042 
 530,782,550 
 1,865,385
 1,372,911
 1,270,932
 1,679,553
 23,128,152
 17,664,243
-
-
 48,151,204 
 38,486,146 
 1,716,261 
 2,582,275 
 966,608 
 730,901 
 (9,689,798)
 (10,881,000)
 597,081,317 
 561,700,872 
 925,501 
 1,017,150 
 20,946,729 
 20,491,493 
 - 
 - 
 349,479 
 497,343 
 39,340,175 
 39,183,264 
 8,370,912 
 7,153,088 
 1,192,530 
 2,796,959 
 1,792,568 
 1,537,315 
 3,894,851 
 3,312,418 
 32,668,321 
 24,898,899 
 4,477,144 
 3,649,725 
 125,259 
 4,361,202 
 16,628,409 
 12,098,950 
 58,048,051 
 58,036,307 
 84,237,190 
 85,055,601 
 4,108,942 
 2,923,886 
 2,170,291 
 4,243,625 
 1,000,983 
 1,060,260 
 4,030,609 
 11,769,967 
 15,372,950 
 24,894,162 
 17,882,499 
 14,743,849 
 24,434,809 
 31,893,279 
 19,421,960 
 14,696,525 
 66,322,990 
 73,616,035 
 171,618,636 
 174,031,926 
 10,304,760 
 14,570,452 
 (7,813,213)
 (5,796,835)
 174,110,183 
 182,805,543 
 771,191,500 
 744,506,415 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 69,510,867 
 58,907,310 
 - 
 - 
 69,510,867 
 58,907,310 
 77,536,189 
 96,201,931 
 107,350 
 304,742 
 - 
 - 
 55,056,493 
 66,919,718 
 136,373,728 
 170,476,562 
 16,375,202 
 21,125,638 
 358 
 410 
 298,183 
 306,148 
 186,497 
-
 28,034,913 
 32,006,831 
 1,128,100 
 823,169 
 12,622 
 8,699 
 236,510 
 184,892 
 740,726 
 490,833 
 3,590,783 
 2,559,632 
-
 - 
 1,185,726 
 1,726,877 
 - 
 - 
 10,201,449 
 18,380,148 
 11,387,175 
 20,107,025 
127,504
 182,444 
272,460
 - 
 104,486 
 - 
 407 
 427 
 616,116 
 286,907 
 95,166,995 
 118,333,182 
 1,578,516 
 2,040,728 
 70,150,046 
 59,398,350 
 66,185,572 
 85,791,126 
249,513,582 
 284,344,267 
 21,222,258 
 19,687,569 
 (9,159,237)
 (10,652,683)
 261,576,603 
 293,379,153 
 7,792,298 
 5,056,161 
 1,386,882 
 888,337 
 5,306,273 
 4,155,248 
 3,351,786 
 2,491,243 
 46,859,474 
 33,116,178 
 4,803,117 
 2,833,700 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 13,921,335 
 1,312,074 
 25,336,688 
 11,556,831 
 10,692,564 
 6,843,958 
 126,359 
 188,000 
 - 
 - 
 7,670,053 
 3,344,997 
 23,216,942 
 12,839,426 
 3,174,465 
 1,682,243 
 - 
 - 
 108,781 
 112,308 
 6,961 
 - 
 3,982,591 
 2,448,653 
 11,239,132 
 10,079,148 
 787,236 
 647,726 
 74,944 
 140,551 
 8,608,790 
 428,023 
 32,522,190 
 30,120,737 
 37,701,576 
 26,495,210 
 2,300,477 
 1,724,063 
 5,489,998 
 4,408,107 
 33,558,925 
 7,576,337 
 131,917,885 
 90,081,825 
 1,824,765 
 1,798,855 
 6,668,511 
 5,191,579 
 (8,272,958)
 (6,363,454)
 132,138,203 
 90,708,805 
 393,714,806 
 384,087,958 
 386,054,167 
 370,810,934 
 79,687,884 
 87,183,326 
 93,643,651 
 77,585,004 
 75,855,429 
 83,370,958 
 727,555,678 
 704,814,476 
 132,868,571 
 144,828,392 
 3,878,993 
 3,764,791 
 75,640,044 
 63,806,457 
 99,744,497
 93,367,463 
 381,431,467
 374,426,092 

288 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
8.	
OPERATING SEGMENT INFORMATION (CONTD.)
8.3	
 Business Segment analysis - Disaggregation of revenue - Business segment analysis 
In Rs.'000s
For the year ended 31 March
GROUP
2024
2023
Sale of 
goods
Rendering
of services
Total
revenue
Sale of 
goods
Rendering
of services
Total
revenue
Transportation
 48,769,114 
 2,395,678 
 51,164,792 
 70,829,986 
 2,816,120 
 73,646,106 
Consumer Foods 
 32,897,097 
 - 
 32,897,097 
 31,268,870 
 - 
 31,268,870 
Retail
 122,339,199 
 162,836 
 122,502,035 
 106,715,142 
 133,426 
 106,848,568 
Leisure
 - 
 47,885,151 
 47,885,151 
 - 
 39,677,238 
 39,677,238 
Property
 - 
 1,601,893 
 1,601,893 
 552,474 
 1,569,874 
 2,122,348 
Financial Services
 - 
 18,664,852 
 18,664,852 
 - 
 16,202,957 
 16,202,957 
Others
 3,055,960 
 3,000,824 
 6,056,784 
 3,743,937 
 3,129,883 
 6,873,820 
Group revenue
 207,061,370 
 73,711,234 
 280,772,604 
 213,110,409 
 63,529,498 
 276,639,907 
8.4 	
 Disaggregation of revenue - Geographical segment analysis (by location of customers) 
In Rs.'000s
For the year ended 31 March
GROUP
2024
2023
Sri Lanka
 196,896,746 
 183,951,601 
Asia (excluding Sri Lanka)
 30,892,350 
 34,539,211 
Europe
 34,287,355 
 34,864,970 
Others
 18,696,153 
 23,284,125 
Group external revenue
 280,772,604 
 276,639,907 
8.5 	
 Geographical segments, based on the location of assets 
In Rs.'000s
As at / For the year ended 31 March
Sri Lanka
Asia (excluding Sri Lanka)
Group Total
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
Group external revenue
 260,387,475 
 254,035,299 
 20,385,129 
 22,604,608 
 280,772,604 
 276,639,907 
Segment revenue
 267,339,834 
 261,470,529 
 20,431,000 
 22,647,648 
 287,770,834 
 284,118,177 
Segment results
 15,471,089 
11,537,476
 2,101,068 
2,809,671
 17,572,157 
 14,349,147 
Segment assets
661,227,841
642,642,346
66,327,837
 62,172,130 
 727,555,678 
704,814,476
Segment liabilities
333,074,967
320,695,977
48,356,500
 53,730,115 
 381,431,467 
374,426,092
Purchase and construction of property, plant 
and equipment
 35,058,056 
6,291,111
 714,706 
782,747
 35,772,762 
 7,073,858 
Purchase and construction of intangible assets
 1,523,452 
 1,295,790 
 - 
 - 
 1,523,452 
 1,295,790 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment
4,856,387
 5,159,591 
 1,689,033 
 1,121,019 
 6,545,420 
 6,280,610 
Amortisation of intangible assets
 987,012 
 852,249 
 - 
 - 
 987,012 
 852,249 
Amortisation of right- of - use assets
 1,523,415 
 1,418,893 
 2,408,328 
 2,732,337 
 3,931,743 
 4,151,230 
Employee benefit provision and related costs
 780,060 
 (195,682)
 - 
 - 
 780,060 
 (195,682)
Investments in equity accounted investees
48,151,204
 38,486,146 
 - 
 - 
48,151,204
 38,486,146

289
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
 9.	
 BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION AND MATERIAL PARTLY 
OWNED SUBSIDIARIES 
Accounting policy 
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial 
statements of the Group and its subsidiaries as at the end of reporting 
period. Control over an investee is achieved when the Group is 
exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the 
investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power 
over the investee.
Control over an investee 
Specifically, the Group controls an investee if, and only if, the Group has:
	y
Power over the investee (i.e., existing rights that give it the current 
ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee)
	y
Exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the 
investee
	y
The ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns
Consolidation of entities in which the Group holds less than a 
majority of voting rights 
When the Group has less than a majority of the voting or similar rights 
of an investee, the Group considers all relevant facts and circumstances 
in assessing whether it has power over an investee, including:
	y
The contractual arrangement with the other vote holders of the 
investee; 
	y
Rights arising from other contractual arrangements; and
	y
The Group’s voting rights and potential voting rights
Subsidiaries that are consolidated have been listed in the Group 
directory under Supplementary section of the annual report.
The following companies, with equity control equal to or less than 50%, 
have been consolidated as subsidiaries based on above criteria. 
% Holding
Rajawella Holdings Ltd
49.85
Mack Air Services Maldives (Pte) Ltd 
49.00
Tea Smallholder Factories PLC
37.62
The Group re-assesses whether or not it controls an investee, if facts 
and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of 
the three elements of control. Consolidation of a subsidiary begins 
when the Group obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when 
the Group loses control of the subsidiary. Assets, liabilities, income and 
expenses of a subsidiary acquired or disposed of during the year are 
included in the consolidated financial statements from the date the 
Group gains control until the date the Group ceases to control the 
subsidiary.	
Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive income 
(OCI) are attributed to the equity holders of the parent of the Group 
and to the non-controlling interests, even if this results in the non- 
controlling interests having a deficit balance. The financial statements 
of the subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting period as 
the parent Company, which is 12 months ending 31 March, using 
consistent accounting policies. 
Transactions eliminated on Consolidation 
All intra-group assets, liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash 
flows relating to transactions between members of the Group are 
eliminated in full on consolidation. A change in the ownership interest 
of a subsidiary, without a loss of control, is accounted for as an equity 
transaction.
Loss of control
If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it derecognises the related 
assets (including goodwill), liabilities, non-controlling interest and other 
components of equity while any resultant gain or loss is recognised in 
the income statement. Any investment retained is recognised at fair 
value. The total profits and losses for the year of the Company and of 
its subsidiaries included in consolidation are shown in the consolidated 
income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive 
income and all assets and liabilities of the Company and of its 
subsidiaries included in consolidation are shown in the Consolidated 
Statement of Financial Position.	
Non-controlling interest (NCI)
Non-controlling interest which represents the portion of profit or loss 
and net assets not held by the Group, are shown as a component of 
profit for the year in the consolidated income statement and statement 
of comprehensive income and as a component of equity in the 
consolidated statement of financial position, separately from equity 
attributable to the shareholders of the parent.
The Consolidated Statement of Cash Flow includes the cash flows of 
the Company and its subsidiaries.

290 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
9.	
 BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION AND MATERIAL PARTLY OWNED SUBSIDIARIES (CONTD.)
9.1 	
 Material partly-owned subsidiaries 
Financial information of subsidiaries that have material non-controlling interests (NCI) are provided below.
In Rs.'000s
Leisure 
Consumer Foods
Retail
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
Summarised Total Comprehensive Income 
Statement for the year ended 31 March
Revenue
 47,946,329 
 39,731,355 
 35,532,797 
 33,776,305 
 122,764,843 
 107,055,829 
Operating cost
 (43,886,544)
 (36,539,683)
 (30,788,778)
 (30,903,840)
 (116,683,921)
 (102,465,649)
Finance cost
 (3,239,205)
 (3,084,504)
 (754,908)
 (955,716)
 (3,205,414)
 (4,104,980)
Finance income
 3,163,845 
 292,374 
 61,939 
 65,532 
 77,096 
 196,401 
Change in fair value of investment properties
 193,305 
 415,701 
 16,955 
 24,149 
 4,914 
 (3,085)
Profit before tax 
 4,177,730 
 815,243 
 4,068,005 
 2,006,430 
 2,957,518 
 678,516 
Tax expense
 (695,457)
 41,326 
 (800,133)
 580,918 
 (882,245)
 737,612 
Profit for the year 
 3,482,273
 856,569 
 3,267,872 
 2,587,348 
 2,075,273 
 1,416,128 
Other comprehensive income
 3,739,171 
 4,620,526 
 (362,567)
 (97,231)
 158,904 
 142,242 
Total comprehensive income
 7,221,444
 5,477,095 
 2,905,305 
 2,490,117 
 2,234,177 
 1,558,370 
Profit/(loss) allocated to NCI
 (34,245)
 (182,808)
 420,021
 325,198
 233,054
 114,671
Dividend paid to NCI
 18,445
 33,574
 374,618
 242,468
 106,013
 142,342
Summarised Statement of Financial Position as 
at 31 March
Non-current assets
 368,171,668 
356,067,085
 13,963,497 
 13,016,251 
 32,897,274 
31,907,619
Current assets
17,882,499
26,228,533
 11,395,643 
 8,285,136 
 16,752,785 
 15,392,717 
Total assets
 386,054,167 
382,295,618
 25,359,140 
 21,301,387 
 49,650,059 
47,300,336
Non-current liabilities
 95,166,995
 47,510,875 
 1,748,666
 1,314,538 
 13,702,508
 16,873,364 
Current liabilities
37,701,576
 22,202,344 
 8,510,808
 7,078,159 
30,985,378
 28,390,207 
Total liabilities
132,868,571
 69,713,219 
10,259,474
 8,392,697 
44,687,886
 45,263,571 
Accumulated balances of NCI
 12,579,384
 13,312,276
 6,543,329
 5,726,737
 2,280,631
1,905,946
Summarised Statement of Cash Flows for the 
year ended 31 March
Cash flows from/(used in) operating activities
 2,963,087 
 3,799,933 
 4,767,372 
 (562,357)
 11,388,479 
 (6,114,653)
Cash flows from/(used in) investing activities
 (1,316,938)
 (1,407,021)
 (837,207)
 (1,572,338)
 (2,481,983)
 (3,501,597)
Cash flows from/(used in) financing activities
 (3,980,110)
 (4,364,007)
 (1,638,481)
 (1,451,251)
 (4,854,118)
 (4,096,593)
Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash 
equivalents
 (2,333,961)
 (1,971,095)
 2,291,684 
 (3,585,946)
 4,052,378 
 (13,712,843)
The above information is based on amounts before inter-company eliminations.

291
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Names of material partly-owned subsidiaries and effective holding % 
owned by non-controlling interest:
Considering the Group balances, none of the individual partly-owned 
subsidiaries have material non-controlling interest. However, the above 
information has been presented on the aggregated interests in similar 
entities namely, the Leisure, Consumer Foods and Retail segment, based 
on the nature and risks of the products and services.
John Keells Holdings has material partly owned subsidiaries in Consumer 
Foods, Retail and Leisure sectors.
In Consumer Foods Sector, Ceylon Cold Stores PLC, Keells Food Products 
PLC and The Colombo Ice Company (Pvt) Ltd has an effective holding 
owned by non-controlling interest ranging from 11.37% - 18.64% as at 
31 March 2024 (2023 - 11.37% - 18.64 %).
In Retail Sector, JayKay Marketing Services (Pvt) Ltd and Logipark 
International (Pvt) Ltd both have 18.64% effective holding owned by 
non-controlling interest as at 31 March 2024 (2023 - 18.64%).
Under Leisure Sector, following companies have significant partly 
owned subsidiaries with effective holding percentage owned by non-
controlling interest ranged from 1.65% - 24.67% (2023 – 1.65% - 24.67%). 
The Leisure Sector subsidiaries include Ahungalla Holiday Resorts (Pvt) 
Ltd, Asian Hotels and Properties PLC, Beruwala Holiday Resorts (Pvt) 
Ltd, Ceylon Holiday Resorts Ltd, Cinnamon Holidays (Pvt) Ltd, Fantasea 
World Investments (Pte) Ltd, Habarana Lodge Ltd, Habarana Walk Inn Ltd, 
Hikkaduwa Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd, International Tourists and Hoteliers 
Ltd, John Keells Hotels PLC, John Keells Maldivian Resorts (Pte) Ltd, Kandy 
Walk Inn Ltd, Nuwara Eliya Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd, Rajawella Hotels 
Company Ltd, Resort Hotels Ltd, Tranquility (Pte) Ltd, Trans Asia Hotels 
PLC, Travel Club (Pte) Ltd, Trinco Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd, Trinco Walk Inn 
Ltd, Walkers Tours Ltd, Wirawila Walk Inn Ltd and Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd.
Please refer Note 26 for the individual company’s effective holdings.
Accounting judgements,estimates and assumptions
Consolidation of entities in which the Group holds less than a 
majority of voting right (de facto control).
The Group considers that it controls some subsidiaries even though it 
owns less than 50% of the voting rights. This is because the Group is the 
single largest shareholder of those subsidiaries with equity interest. The 
remaining equity shares in those subsidiaries are widely held by many 
other shareholders, and there is no history of the other shareholders 
collaborating to exercise their votes collectively or to outvote the Group.
10.	
BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND ACQUISITIONS OF NON-
CONTROLLING INTERESTS 
Accounting policy 
Business combinations & goodwill
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method 
of accounting. The Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date as 
the fair value of the consideration transferred including the recognised 
amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree, less the net 
recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets 
acquired and liabilities assumed, all measured as of the acquisition date.
When the fair value of the consideration transferred including the 
recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree is 
lower than the fair value of net assets acquired, a gain is recognised 
immediately in the income statement. The Group elects on a 
transaction-by-transaction basis whether to measure non-controlling 
interests at fair value, or at their proportionate share of the recognised 
amount of the identifiable net assets, at the acquisition date. Transaction 
costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity 
securities, that the Group incurs in connection with a business 
combination are expensed as incurred. When the Group acquires a 
business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for 
appropriate classification and designation in accordance with the 
contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as 
at the acquisition date. If the business combination is achieved in stages, 
the acquisition date fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity 
interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date 
through profit or loss. Any contingent consideration to be transferred 
by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. 
Contingent consideration, resulting from business combinations, is 
valued at fair value at the acquisition date. Contingent consideration 
classified as equity is not remeasured and its subsequent settlement is 
accounted for within equity. Contingent consideration classified as an 
asset or liability that is a financial instrument and within the scope of 
SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments, is measured at fair value with the changes 
in fair value recognised in the Income Statement, in accordance with 
SLFRS 9.
Other contingent consideration that is not within the scope of SLFRS 9 is 
measured at fair value at each reporting date with changes in fair value 
recognised in profit or loss.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any 
accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment, 
annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.

292 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business 
combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the 
Group’s cash generating units that are expected to benefit from the 
combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the 
acquiree are assigned to those units.
Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of 
the cash-generating unit to which the goodwill relates. Where the 
recoverable amount of the cash generating unit is less than the carrying 
amount, an impairment loss is recognised. The impairment loss is 
allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated 
to the unit and then to the other assets pro-rata to the carrying amount 
of each asset in the unit. Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on 
the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities 
of the foreign operation and translated at the closing rate.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the 
operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated 
with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of 
the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the 
operation, goodwill disposed in this circumstance is measured based on 
the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the 
cash-generating unit retained.	
Impairment of goodwill
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually (as at 31 March) when 
circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired. 
Impairment is determined for goodwill by assessing the recoverable 
amount of each cash-generating unit (or group of cash-generating units) 
to which the goodwill relates. Where the recoverable amount of the cash 
generating unit is less than their carrying amount, an impairment loss is 
recognised. Impairment losses relating to goodwill cannot be reversed in 
future periods.
10.1 	 Investment in subsidiaries
Waterfront Properties (Pvt) Ltd (WPL) 
John Keells Holdings PLC (JKH) further invested Rs.19,585 Mn (2023 
- Rs.80,913 Mn) in WPL, a subsidiary of JKH involved in developing, 
owning, managing, operating, selling, leasing and renting of a luxury 
multi/mixed use Integrated Resort. 
The project's key investments are presented in the statement of financial 
position under the following categories.
Asset Category
Type
Value
(In Mn)
Note
reference
Property, plant and 
equipment 
Integrated hotel
246,933
 22 
 Investment Property Commercial buildings
 17,112 
 24 
 Inventory 
Residential apartments
 20,896 
 30 
The recoverability of the investment in Waterfront Properties is duly 
assessed based on the projected revenue, EBITDA margins, occupancy 
rates and cash flow projections discounted using a rate reflecting 
the appropriate risk appetite of the Company and considering the 
performance of similar integrated properties regionally.
10.2 	 Investment in equity accounted investees
Colombo West International Container Terminal (Pvt) Ltd (CWIT)
John Keells Holdings PLC further invested Rs.5,170 Mn (2023 - Rs.2,723 
Mn) in CWIT as per the Build, Own and Transfer (BOT) Agreement 
between the Sri Lanka Ports Authority and CWIT.
John Keells CG Auto (Pvt) Ltd (JKCG)
John Keells Holdings PLC entered into a new joint venture with CG 
Auto Pte Ltd to form a new business which is involved in Importing and 
selling New Energy Vehicles and providing after sales services. JKH has a 
50% stake in the business.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
10. 	
BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND ACQUISITIONS OF NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS (CONTD.)

293
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
11.	
 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES
The Group has loans and other receivables, trade and other receivables 
and cash and short-term deposits that arise directly from its operations. 
The Group also holds other financial instruments such as available 
for sale and fair value through profit or loss financial instruments and 
may enter into derivative transactions. The Group’s principal financial 
liabilities, comprise of loans and borrowings, trade and other payables 
and financial guarantee contracts. The main purpose of these financial 
liabilities is to finance the Group’s operations and to provide guarantees 
to support its operations. The financial risk governance framework 
provides assurance to the Group’s senior management that the 
Group’s financial risk activities are governed by appropriate policies 
and procedures and that financial risks are identified, measured and 
managed in accordance with the Group’s policies and risk objectives.  
The Group is exposed to market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
11.1 	  Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not meet its obligations 
under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading to a financial 
loss. The Group is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities 
(primarily trade receivables) and from its financing activities, including 
deposits with banks and financial institutions, foreign exchange 
transactions and other financial instruments.
The Group trades only with recognised, creditworthy third parties. It is 
the Group’s policy that all clients who wish to trade on credit terms are 
subject to credit verification procedures. In addition, receivable balances 
are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that the Group’s 
exposure to bad debts is not significant.
With respect to credit risk arising from the other financial assets of the 
Group, such as cash and cash equivalents, available-for-sale financial 
investments, investments, and certain derivative instruments, the Group’s 
exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty. The 
Group manages its operations to avoid any excessive concentration of 
counterparty risk and the Group takes all reasonable steps to ensure the 
counterparties fulfil their obligations.	

294 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
11.	
 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (CONTD.)
11.1.1 Risk exposure
The maximum risk positions of financial assets which are generally subject to credit risk are equal to their carrying amounts (without consideration of  
collateral, if available). Following table shows the maximum risk positions.	
In Rs.'000s
As at 31 March
2024
Notes
 Non- 
current 
financial 
assets 
Cash in 
hand and 
at bank
Trade
and other
receivables
Short term 
investments
Amounts 
due from 
related 
parties
Group
Government securities
11.1.2
 59,500,492 
 - 
 - 
 8,404,134 
 - 
Corporate debt securities
11.1.3
 7,458,459 
 - 
 - 
 3,752,741 
 - 
Deposits with bank
11.1.4
 230,495 
 - 
 - 
 62,907,725 
 - 
Loans to executives
11.1.5
 1,491,012 
 - 
 415,865 
 - 
 - 
Loans to life policyholders
11.1.6
 2,310,660 
 - 
114,677
 - 
 - 
Interest rate swap
11.1.7
 3,294,625 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Trade and other receivables
11.1.8
 - 
 - 
26,652,427
 - 
 - 
Reinsurance receivables
11.1.9
 116,444 
 - 
 313,050 
 - 
 - 
Assets backed securities
11.1.10
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Premium receivable
11.1.11
 - 
 - 
 881,186 
 - 
 - 
Amounts due from related parties
11.1.12
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 674,179 
Cash in hand and at bank
11.1.13
 - 
 15,417,894 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total credit risk exposure 
 74,402,187 
 15,417,894 
 28,377,205 
 75,064,600 
 674,179 
Financial assets at fair value through P&L
11.3.3.1
 - 
 - 
 - 
 4,966,042 
 - 
Financial assets at fair value through OCI
11.3.3.2
 79,629 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total equity risk exposure 
 79,629 
 - 
 - 
 4,966,042 
 - 
Total 
 74,481,816 
 15,417,894 
 28,377,205 
 80,030,642 
 674,179 
Company
Deposits with bank
11.1.4
 - 
 - 
 - 
 57,805,464 
 - 
Loans to executives
11.1.5
 173,401 
 - 
 20,802 
 - 
 - 
Interest rate swap
11.1.7
 3,294,625 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Trade and other receivables
11.1.8
 - 
 - 
 439,880 
 - 
 - 
Amounts due from related parties
11.1.12
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,290,846 
Cash in hand and at bank
11.1.13
 - 
 556,930 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Total credit risk exposure 
 3,468,026 
 556,930 
 460,682 
 57,805,464 
 1,290,846 
Financial assets at fair value through OCI
11.3.3.2
 43,666 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total equity risk exposure 
 43,666 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total 
 3,511,692 
 556,930 
 460,682 
 57,805,464 
 1,290,846 

295
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
2023
Total
%
of 
allocation
 Non- 
current 
financial 
assets 
Cash in 
hand and 
at bank
Trade
and other
receivables
Short term
investments
Amounts 
due from 
related 
parties
Total
%
of 
allocation
 67,904,626 
35%
 45,906,390 
 - 
 - 
 7,521,144 
 - 
 53,427,534 
28%
 11,211,200 
6%
 9,185,289 
 - 
 - 
 1,653,689 
 - 
 10,838,978 
6%
 63,138,220 
33%
 803,775 
 - 
 - 
 69,453,925 
 - 
 70,257,700 
37%
 1,906,877 
1%
 1,260,602 
 - 
356,266
 - 
 - 
1,616,868
1%
2,425,337
1%
 2,199,675 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2,199,675 
1%
 3,294,625 
2%
 4,215,838 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 4,215,838 
2%
 26,652,427
14%
 - 
 - 
19,940,932
 - 
 - 
19,940,932
11%
 429,494 
0%
 - 
 - 
 590,215 
 - 
 - 
 590,215 
0%
 - 
-
 314,276 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 314,276 
0%
 881,186 
0%
 - 
 - 
 620,665 
 - 
 - 
 620,665 
0%
 674,179 
0%
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 317,700 
 317,700 
0%
 15,417,894
8%
 - 
 25,092,977 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 25,092,977 
14%
 193,936,065 
100%
 63,885,845 
 25,092,977 
 21,508,078 
 78,628,758 
 317,700 
 189,433,358
100%
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3,593,064 
 - 
 71,206 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 71,206 
 - 
 - 
 3,593,064 
 - 
 63,957,051 
 25,092,977 
 21,508,078 
 82,221,822 
 317,700 
 57,805,464 
91%
 - 
 - 
 - 
 57,473,253 
 - 
 57,473,253 
80%
 194,203 
0%
 151,987 
 - 
 20,766 
 - 
 - 
 172,753 
0%
 3,294,625 
5%
 4,215,838 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 4,215,838 
6%
 439,880 
1%
 - 
 - 
 186,967 
 - 
 - 
 186,967 
0%
 1,290,846 
2%
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,177,616 
 1,177,616 
2%
 556,930 
1%
 - 
 8,232,006 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 8,232,006 
12%
 63,581,948 
100%
 4,367,825 
 8,232,006 
 207,733 
 57,473,253 
 1,177,616 
 71,458,433 
100%
 37,158 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 37,158 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 4,404,983 
 8,232,006 
 207,733 
 57,473,253 
 1,177,616 

296 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
11.1.3 Corporate debt securities 
As at 31 March 2024 corporate debt securities comprise 6% (2023 - 6%) 
of the total investments in debt securities, out of which 18% (2023 - 20%) 
were rated “A” or better, or guaranteed by a banking institution with a 
rating of “A” or better.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
GROUP
As at 31 March
2024
2023
Fitch ratings
 In Rs.’000s 
% 
 In Rs.’000s 
% 
AAA
 101,177 
0%
 - 
-
A+
 628,247 
6%
 607,585 
6%
A 
 1,435,654 
12%
 1,568,959 
14%
A-
 867,523 
8%
 829,469 
8%
BBB+ 
 2,640,002 
24%
 2,596,193 
24%
BBB
 3,775,936 
34%
 3,471,458 
32%
BBB-
 1,445,202 
13%
 1,549,735 
14%
BB+
 101,857 
1%
 - 
 - 
CC
 215,602 
2%
 215,579 
2%
Total 
 11,211,200 
100%
 10,838,978 
100%
As at 31 March
Fitch ratings
GROUP
COMPANY
2024
2023
2024
2023
 In Rs.’000s 
% 
 In Rs.’000s 
% 
 In Rs.’000s 
% 
 In Rs.’000s 
% 
AAA 
 1,112,648 
2%
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
AA- 
 15,405 
0%
 2,988,505 
4%
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
A 
 41,335,052 
65%
 44,491,946 
63%
37,198,346
64%
 35,629,545 
62%
A-
 20,675,115 
33%
 22,777,249 
33%
20,607,118
36%
 21,843,708 
38%
Total 
 63,138,220 
100%
 70,257,700 
100%
57,805,464
100%
 57,473,253 
100%
11. 	
 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (CONTD.)
11.1.2 Government securities 
As at 31 March 2024 as shown in table above, 35% (2023 - 28%) of debt 
 securities comprise investments in government securities consist of  
treasury bonds, bills and reverse repo investments. 
11.1.4 Deposits with banks
Deposits with bank mainly consist of fixed and call deposits .
As at 31 March 2024, fixed and call deposits comprise 67% (2023 - 67%) and 64% (2023 - 62%) for the Group and Company respectively were rated “A” 
or better.
11.1.5 Loans to executives 
Loans to executive portfolio is largely made up of vehicle loans which 
are given to staff at assistant manager level and above. The respective 
business units have obtained the necessary promissory notes as 
collateral for the loans granted.	
11.1.6 Loans to life policyholders 
The surrender value of insurance policies considered as the collateral for the 
loans given to life policy holders by Union Assurance PLC. System controls 
are in place to automatically convert a policy to lapse stage when the policy 
loan amount together with the interest is reaching the surrender value of 
the policy.

297
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
11.1.8 Trade and other receivables 	
In Rs.'000s
As at 31 March
GROUP
COMPANY
2024
2023
2024
2023
Neither past due nor impaired
11,870,375
 7,367,072 
 362,173 
 170,823 
Past due but not impaired
	 0-30 days
9,933,334
 6,479,147 
 63,590 
1,680
	 31–60 days
 3,144,201
 2,059,955 
 2,963 
1,286
	 61–90 days
428,826
 373,006 
 1,515 
1,566
	 > 91 days
1,856,114
 4,139,581 
10,020
12,295
Gross carrying value
27,232,850
 20,418,761 
 440,261 
 187,650
Allowance for expected credit losses
 (580,423)
 (477,829)
(381)
(683)
Total
26,652,427
 19,940,932 
 439,880
 186,967 
The Group has obtained customer deposit from major customers by 
reviewing their past performance and credit worthiness, as collateral. 
The requirement for an impairment is analysed at each reporting date 
on an individual basis for major customers and uses a provision matrix to 
calculate Expected Credit Loss (ECL) for the balance. The provision rates 
are based on days past due for groupings of various customer segments 
that have similar loss patterns.
The provision matrix was initially based on the Group’s historical 
observed default rates. The Group calibrates the matrix to adjust the 
historical credit loss experience with forward-looking information. At 
every reporting date, the historical observed default rates are updated 
and changes in the forward-looking estimates are analysed.
The Group considers a financial asset, including trade and receivables, 
as indicating impairment when contractual payments are 90 days 
past due. However, in certain cases, the Group may also consider a 
financial asset to provide impairment indications when internal or 
external information indicates that the Group is unlikely to receive the 
outstanding contractual amounts in full before taking into account any 
credit enhancements held by the Group. A financial asset is written off 
when there is no reasonable expectation of recovering the contractual 
cash flows.
11.1.9 Reinsurance receivables 
The Union Assurance PLC operates a policy to manage its reinsurance 
counterparty exposures by limiting the reinsurers that may be used and 
applying strict limits each reinsurer.
11.1.10 Asset Backed Securities 
Asset Backed Securities are fixed income instruments created through 
securitisation. This involves transferring assets (collateral) from the 
original owner to the trustee and then issuing securities based by these 
assets. The asset cash flows of the collateral are used to pay interest 
and re- pay capital. The Group closely monitors the grate rate of the 
investment to mitigate the credit risk associated. 
11.1.11 Premium receivable 
Only designated institutions are employed as intermediary parties 
by Union Assurance PLC Agreements have been signed within the 
intermediaries committing them to settle dues within a specified time 
period.
11.1.12 Amounts due from related parties 
The Group's amounts due from related parties mainly consists of 
associates and other venture partners' balances. The Company balance 
consists of the balances from affiliate companies.
11.1.13 Credit risk relating to cash in hand and bank balance 
In order to mitigate the concentration, settlement and operational risks 
related to cash and cash equivalents, the Group consciously manages 
the exposure to a single counterparty taking into consideration, where 
relevant, the rating or financial standing of the counterparty, where the 
position is reviewed as and when required, the duration of the exposure 
in managing such exposures and the nature of the transaction and 
agreement governing the exposure. 
11.1.7 Interest rate swap
The Group has entered into interest rate swap that is a cash flow hedge. The changes in counterparty credit risk had no material effect on the hedge 
effectiveness assessment for derivatives designated in hedge relationships. Refer Note 13.3.

298 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
11. 	
 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (CONTD.)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
11.2.2 	
 Liquidity risk management 
The mixed approach combines elements of the cash flow matching 
approach and the liquid assets approach. 
The Group has implemented a mixed approach that combines elements 
of the cash flow matching approach and the liquid assets approach. The 
business units matched cash outflows in each time bucket against the 
combination of contractual cash inflows plus other inflows that can be 
generated through the sale of assets, repurchase agreement, or other 
secured borrowings.
The Group continued to place emphasis on ensuring that cash and 
undrawn committed facilities are sufficient to meet the short, medium 
and long-term funding requirements, unforeseen obligations as well 
as unanticipated opportunities. Constant dialogue between Group 
companies and banks regarding financing requirements, ensures that 
availability within each single borrower limit is optimised by efficiently 
reallocating under-utilised facilities within the Group. 
The daily cash management processes at the business units include 
active cash flow forecasts and matching the duration and profiles of 
assets and liabilities, thereby ensuring a prudent balance between 
liquidity and earnings.
11.2.1 Net debt/(cash) 
In Rs.'000s
As at 31 March
GROUP
COMPANY
2024
2023
2024
2023
Short term investments
 80,030,642 
 82,221,822 
 57,805,464 
 57,473,253 
Cash in hand and at bank
 15,417,894 
 25,092,977 
 556,930 
 8,232,006 
Adjustments to liquid assets
 (8,620,436)
 (6,974,998)
 - 
 - 
Total liquid assets
 86,828,100 
 100,339,801 
 58,362,394 
 65,705,259 
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings (Non-current)
 127,169,502 
 159,778,892 
 55,044,493 
 66,907,718 
Liability attributable to convertible debentures
 10,201,449 
 18,380,148 
 10,201,449 
 18,380,148 
Lease liabilities (Non-current)
 28,080,571 
 32,052,489 
 109,139 
 - 
Short term borrowings
 21,062,456 
 8,701,652 
 13,909,261 
 1,300,000 
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings (Current)
 23,216,942 
 12,839,426 
 7,670,053 
 3,344,997 
Lease liabilities (Current)
 3,884,003 
 2,258,653 
 6,961 
 - 
Bank overdrafts
 32,450,187 
 30,048,743 
 8,303,941 
 172,372 
Total liabilities
 246,065,110 
 264,060,003 
 95,245,297 
 90,105,235 
Net debt / (cash)
 159,237,010 
 163,720,202 
 36,882,903 
 24,399,976 
11.2 	  Liquidity risk 
The Group’s policy is to hold cash and undrawn committed facilities at 
a level sufficient to ensure that the Group has available funds to meet 
its short and medium term capital and funding obligations, including 
organic growth and acquisition activities, and to meet any unforeseen 
obligations and opportunities. The Group holds cash and undrawn 
committed facilities to enable the Group to manage its liquidity risk.
The Group monitors its risk to a shortage of funds using a daily cash 
management process. This process considers the maturity of both 
the Group’s financial investments and financial assets (e.g. accounts 
receivable, other financial assets) and projected cash flows from 
operations.
The Group’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of 
funding and flexibility through the use of multiple sources of funding 
including debentures, bank loans, loan notes, overdrafts and finance 
leases over a broad spread of maturities.

299
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Maturity analysis - Group
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities at 31 March 2024 based on contractual undiscounted (principal plus 
interest) payments.
In Rs.'000s
Within 1 
year
Between
1-2 years
Between
2-3 years
Between
3-4 years
Between
4-5 years
More than 
5 years
Total
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
34,198,998
34,378,082
76,589,291
13,222,118
11,389,212
15,335,050
185,112,751
Lease liabilities
3,762,037
 3,442,626 
 3,345,329 
3,239,028
3,154,475
37,176,448
54,119,943
Convertible debenture
 403,717 
 12,946,021 
 - 
- 
 - 
 - 
 13,349,738 
Trade and other payables
 42,582,596 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 42,582,596 
Amounts due to related parties
 448,743 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 448,743 
Short term borrowings
 21,062,456 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 21,062,456 
Bank overdrafts
 32,450,187 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 32,450,187 
134,908,734
50,766,729
79,934,620
16,461,146
14,543,687
52,511,498
349,126,414
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities at 31 March 2023 based on contractual undiscounted (principal plus 
interest) payments.
In Rs.'000s
Within 1 
year
Between
1-2 years
Between
2-3 years
Between
3-4 years
Between
4-5 years
More than 
5 years
Total
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
 25,794,290 
 32,963,699 
 35,025,155 
 77,783,057 
 13,380,226 
 28,315,286 
 213,261,713 
Lease liabilities
 3,728,265 
 5,570,684 
 3,812,219 
 3,901,551 
 3,050,595 
 23,068,693 
 43,132,007 
Convertible debenture
811,687
813,911
27,458,758
-
-
-
29,084,356
Trade and other payables
 29,866,282 
-
-
-
-
-
 29,866,282 
Amounts due to related parties
 3,615 
-
-
-
-
-
 3,615 
Short term borrowings
 8,701,652 
-
-
-
-
-
 8,701,652 
Bank overdrafts
 30,048,743 
-
-
-
-
-
 30,048,743 
 98,954,534 
 39,348,294 
 66,296,132 
 81,684,608 
 16,430,821 
 51,383,979 
 354,098,368 
Maturity analysis - Company
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Company’s financial liabilities at 31 March 2024 based on contractual undiscounted (principal 
plus interest) payments.
In Rs.'000s
Within 1 
year
Between
1-2 years
Between
2-3 years
Between
3-4 years
Between
4-5 years
More than 
5 years
Total
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
 10,646,447 
 16,203,216 
 13,023,804 
 11,833,967 
 10,511,486 
 14,589,790 
 76,808,710 
Lease liability
 20,308 
 20,478 
 22,339 
 22,525 
 24,573 
 69,829 
 180,052 
Convertible debenture
 403,717 
 12,946,021 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 13,349,738 
Trade and other payables
 1,463,935 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,463,935 
Amounts due to related parties
 88,841 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 88,841 
Short term borrowings
 13,909,261 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 13,909,261 
Bank overdrafts
 8,303,941 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 8,303,941 
 34,836,450 
 29,169,715 
 13,046,143 
 11,856,492 
 10,536,059 
 14,659,619 
 114,104,478 

300 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
11. 	
 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (CONTD.)
11.3 	  Market risk 	
Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial 
instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market prices.
Market risk comprises of the following types of risk:
* 	 Interest rate risk
* 	 Currency risk
* 	 Equity price risk
* 	 Commodity price risk
The objective of market risk management is to manage and 
control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while 
optimising the return.
The sensitivity analyses in the following sections relate to the 
position as at 31 March in 2024 and 2023.
The analysis excludes the impact of movements in market variables 
on the carrying values of other post-retirement obligations, 
provisions, and the non-financial assets and liabilities.
The following assumptions have been made in calculating the 
sensitivity analyses:
* 	The sensitivity of the Statement of Financial Position item mainly 
relates to derivatives and debt instruments.
*	 The sensitivity of the relevant Income Statement item is the effect 
of the assumed changes in respective market risks. 
*	 This is based on the financial assets and financial liabilities held at 
31 March 2024 and 2023. 
11.3.1 Interest rate risk 
Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows 
of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in 
market interest rates. The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes in 
market interest rates relate primarily to the Group’s long-term debt 
obligations with floating interest rates. 
To manage the exposure of floating interest rates which is 
common to most loans, the Group enters into interest rate swaps, 
where necessary and applicable, in which it agrees to exchange, 
at specified intervals, the difference between fixed and variable 
rate interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed upon 
notional principal amount. 
The Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL) began to ease its monetary 
policy stance during the current financial year amid decelerating 
inflation, resulting in a downward trend in market interest rates 
throughout the financial year. The directions issued by the Central 
Bank to licensed banks to reduce interest rates, and the significant 
reduction of risk premia on government securities, have accelerated 
the downward adjustment in market interest rates, particularly 
lending rates, in the second half of the financial year. Downward 
pressures on inflation on account of many factors including 
decreases in global commodity prices, food supply, and the 
appreciation of the currency have resulted in eased policy actions by 
the CBSL during the reporting period. 
The Group has managed the risk of volatile interest rates by having 
a balanced portfolio of borrowings at fixed and variable rates while 
interest rate swap agreements are in place for a significant portion of 
the Group’s foreign currency borrowing portfolio.
The table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible 
change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, of the 
Group’s and Company's profit before tax (through the impact on 
floating rate borrowings). 
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Company's financial liabilities at 31 March 2023 based on contractual undiscounted (principal 
plus interest) payments. 
In Rs.'000s
Within 1 
year
Between
1-2 years
Between
2-3 years
Between
3-4 years
Between
4-5 years
More than 
5 years
Total
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 
 7,192,964 
 10,036,388 
 16,582,561 
 13,634,699 
 12,561,837 
 27,160,286 
 87,168,735 
Convertible debenture
811,687
813,911
27,458,758
-
-
-
29,084,356
Trade and other payables 
 631,405 
-
-
-
-
-
 631,405 
Amounts due to related parties 
 58,244 
-
-
-
-
-
 58,244 
Short term borrowings
 1,300,000 
-
-
-
-
-
 1,300,000 
Bank overdrafts 
 172,372 
-
-
-
-
-
 172,372 
 10,166,672 
 10,850,299 
 44,041,319 
 13,634,699 
 12,561,837 
 27,160,286 
 118,415,112 

301
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
For the year ended 31 March
GROUP
COMPANY
Increase/(decrease)
in exchange rate USD
Effect on profit 
before tax 
Rs.‘000s
Effect on equity 
Rs.‘000s
Effect on profit 
before tax 
Rs.‘000s
Effect on equity 
Rs.‘000s
2024
+7.5%
 (5,641,757)
 7,312,743 
 297,643 
247,097
-7.5%
5,641,757
 (7,312,743)
 (297,643)
(247,097)
2023
+13%
1,010,599
35,396,628
890,672
532,882
-13%
(1,010,599)
(35,396,628)
(890,672)
(532,882)
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
Increase/ (decrease) in basis points
Effect on profit before tax 
Rs.‘000s
Rupee 
borrowings
Other currency
borrowings
2024
+1316
+60
 (3,993,690)
 (1,696,919)
-1316
-60
 3,993,690 
 1,696,919 
2023
+ 1916
 + 427
(11,907,043)
(4,715,482)
- 1916
-427
 11,907,043
4,715,482
The assumed spread of basis points for the interest rate sensitivity analysis is based on the currently observable market environment changes to base 
floating interest rates.
11.3.2 	
 Foreign currency risk 
Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows 
of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in foreign 
exchange rates. The Group has exposure to foreign currency risk where it 
has cash flows in overseas operations and foreign currency transactions 
which are affected by foreign exchange movements. The Group treasury 
analyses the market condition of foreign exchange and provides market 
updates to the Group Executive Committee (GEC), with the use of 
external consultants' advice. Based on the suggestions made by the 
Group treasury the GEC takes decisions on whether to hold, sell, or make 
forward bookings of foreign currency as per decision rights given by 
Board of Directors.
Assumptions
The assumed spread of the exchange rate is based on the current 
observable market environment.
The Sri Lankan Rupee experienced appreciation in the first quarter, 
followed by a marginal depreciation in the second and third quarters, 
before showing an upward trend again in the final quarter.
The Group adopted prudent measures, as and when required, to 
manage the financial impacts arising from the liquidity constraints and 
currency fluctuations by matching liabilities with corresponding inflows. 
At a Group level, the translation risk on foreign currency debt is largely 
hedged “naturally” because of the conscious strategy of maintaining 
US Dollar cash balances at the holding company whilst also ensuring 
obligations can be managed through US Dollar denominated revenue 
streams. 
11.3.3 Equity price risk 
The Group’s listed and unlisted equity securities are susceptible to 
market price risk arising from uncertainties about future values of the 
investment securities. 
11.3.3.1 Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss 
The Group manages the equity price risk through diversification and by 
placing limits on individual and total equity instruments. Reports on the 
equity portfolio are submitted to the Group’s senior management on 
a regular basis. The Board of Directors reviews and approves all equity 
investment decisions. 
11.3.2.1 Effects of currency translation 
For purposes of Group consolidated financial statements, income and 
expenses and assets and liabilities of subsidiaries whose functional 
currency differs from the Group presentation currency are translated into 
the Group presentation currency. Therefore, period-to-period changes in 
average exchange rates may cause currency translation effects that have 
a significant impact on, for example, revenue, segment results (Earnings 
Before Interest and Taxes –EBIT) and assets and liabilities of the Group. 
Unlike exchange rate transaction risk, exchange rate translation risk 
does not necessarily affect future cash flows. The Group’s equity position 
reflects changes in book values caused by exchange rates.

302 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
As at 31 March
GROUP
2024
2023
Rs.’000s
%
Rs.’000s
%
Application Software
 - 
 - 
 49,812 
1%
Banks
 1,528,273 
31%
 396,380 
11%
Capital Goods
 1,555,137 
31%
 906,535 
25%
Consumer Durables and Apparel
 387,599 
8%
 398,982 
11%
Consumer Services
 45,360 
1%
 194,454 
5%
Diversified Financials
 39,738 
1%
 - 
 - 
Energy
 - 
 - 
 315,951 
10%
Food and Staples Retailing
 - 
-
 13,018 
0%
Food Beverage and Tobacco
 645,106 
13%
 440,292 
12%
Investment Banking and Brokerage
-
-
 36,709
1%
Materials
 561,046 
11%
 641,028 
18%
Real Estate 
-
-
 16,063
0%
Telecommunication Services
 203,783 
4%
 183,840 
6%
 4,966,042 
100%
 3,593,064 
100%
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
GROUP
For the year ended 31 March
Change in year-end
 market price index
Effect on profit
before tax Rs.‘000s
Effect on equity
Rs.‘000s
 2024
+21%
 1,042,869 
-
-21%
 (1,042,869)
-
 2023
+10%
359,306
-
-10%
(359,306)
-
11. 	
 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (CONTD.)
11.3.3.1 Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss (Contd.)
11.3.3.2 Financial instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income statement 
All unquoted equity investments are made after obtaining Board of Directors approval. 
11.3.3.3 	  Sensitivity analysis 
The table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in the market index, with all other variables held constant, of the Group and 
Company's profit before tax and equity due to changes in the fair value of the listed equity securities.

303
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
11.4 	  Capital management 
The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to ensure 
that it maintains a strong financial position and healthy capital ratios in 
order to support its business and maximise shareholder value. 
As at 31 March
GROUP
COMPANY
2024
2023
2024
2023
Debt / Equity
65.2%
73.3%
46.2%
46.7%
12. 	
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT AND RELATED FAIR VALUE 
DISCLOSURES 
Fair value measurement 
Fair value related disclosures for financial instruments and non-financial 
assets that are measured at fair value or where fair values are only, disclosed 
are reflected in this note. Aside from this note, additional fair value related 
disclosures, including the valuation methods, significant estimates and 
assumptions are also provided in:
•	 Investment in unquoted equity shares - Note 28.1
•	 Property, plant and equipment under revaluation model -  
Note 22.3
•	 Investment properties - Note 24
•	 Financial Instruments (including those carried at amortised cost) - 
Note 13
Accounting policy
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to 
transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants 
at the measurement date. The fair value measurement is based on the 
presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability 
takes place either:
• 	 In the principal market for the asset or liability, or 
• 	 In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous 
market for the asset or liability 
The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible by 
the Group. 
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions 
that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, 
assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest.
A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account 
a market participant’s ability to generate economic benefits by using 
the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market 
participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the 
circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair 
value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising 
the use of unobservable inputs.
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in 
the financial statements are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, 
described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to 
the fair value measurement as a whole:
•	 Level 1 — Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active markets for 
identical assets or liabilities 
•	 Level 2 — Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that 
is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly 
observable
•	 Level 3 — Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is 
significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable.
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements 
on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have 
occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation 
(based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value 
measurement as a whole) at the end of each reporting period.
The Group determines the policies and procedures for both recurring fair 
value measurement, such as investment properties and unquoted equity 
instruments, and for non-recurring measurement, such as assets held for 
sale in discontinued operations.
The services of external valuers are obtained for valuation of significant 
assets, such as land and building and investment properties. Selection 
criteria for external valuers include market knowledge, reputation, 
independence and whether professional standards are maintained. 
The Group decides, after discussions with the external valuers, which 
valuation techniques and inputs to use for individual assets.
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group has determined 
classes of assets on the basis of the nature, characteristics and risks of the 
asset and the level of the fair value hierarchy as explained above.
The Group manages its capital structure, and makes adjustments to it, in 
the light of changes in economic conditions. To maintain or adjust the 
capital structure, the Group may issue new shares, have a rights issue or 
buy back of shares. 	

304 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
12. 	
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT AND RELATED FAIR VALUE DISCLOSURES (CONTD.)
12.1 	 Fair value measurement hierarchy - Group
The Group held the following financial instruments carried at fair value in the Statement of Financial Position:
In Rs.'000s
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
As at 31 March
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
FINANCIAL ASSETS
Non-listed equity 
investments
 - 
 - 
 280 
 280 
 79,214 
 70,926 
 79,494 
 71,206 
Listed equity investments
 7,744,702 
 3,899,110 
 133 
 210 
 - 
 - 
 7,744,835 
 3,899,320 
Quoted debt instruments
 22,330,268  15,032,489 
 106,248 
 154,424 
 - 
 -  22,436,516  15,186,913 
Unquoted debt instruments
 - 
 - 
 26,316 
 7,569 
 - 
 - 
 26,316 
 7,569 
Interest rate swap
 - 
 - 
 3,294,625 
 4,215,838 
 - 
 - 
 3,294,625 
 4,215,838 
Total
 30,074,970  18,931,599 
 3,427,602 
 4,378,321 
 79,214 
 70,926  33,581,786  23,380,846 
NON FINANCIAL ASSETS
Assets measured at fair 
value
Note
Land and buildings
 22.1 
-
-
-
-
 72,706,582
 69,771,307  72,706,582
 69,771,307 
Buildings on leasehold land
 22.1 
-
-
-
-
 40,606,471  40,944,758  40,606,471  40,944,758 
Investment properties
 24
-
-
-
-
 31,518,824
 33,029,385  31,518,824
 33,029,385 
Total
-
-
-
-  144,831,877  143,745,450  144,831,877  143,745,450 
In determining the fair value, highest and best use of the property has 
been considered including the current condition of the properties, 
future usability and associated redevelopment requirements. Also, the 
valuers have made reference to market evidence of transaction prices for 
similar properties, with appropriate adjustments for size and location. The 
appraised fair values are rounded within the range of values.
All the other financial instruments were properly categorised and during 
the period were not materially different from the transaction prices at the 
date of initial recognition. The fair value changes on financial instruments 
in Level 3 category was properly recorded in the statement of other 
comprehensive income fair valuation was done as of 31 March 2024.
Financial assets at fair value through Profit and loss 
There may be an increase in the amount of subjectivity involved in fair 
value measurements, and as such, a greater use of unobservable inputs will 
be required because relevant observable inputs are no longer available. 
This will have a direct impact to the policyholder profit or loss where 
diversification of the portfolio with the unaffected and growing industries 
will mitigate the risk.
12.2 	 Fair value measurement hierarchy - Company
In Rs.'000s
Level 2
Level 3
As at 31 March
2024
2023
2024
2023
FINANCIAL ASSETS
Non-listed equity investments
 - 
 - 
 43,666 
 37,158 
Interest rate swap
 3,294,625 
 4,215,838 
 - 
 - 
 3,294,625 
 4,215,838 
 43,666 
 37,158 

305
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
12.3 	 Reconciliation of fair value measurements of level 3 financial instruments
The Group and Company carries unquoted equity shares are classified as Level 3 within the fair value hierarchy. A reconciliation of the beginning and 
closing balances including movements is summarised below:
In Rs.'000s
GROUP
COMPANY
Fair value through other 
comprehensive income
As at 1 April 2023
 70,926 
 37,158 
Purchase of equity shares 
5,750
5,750
Disposal of equity shares
 (16,079)
 (15,941)
Remeasurement recognised in OCI
18,617
16,699
As at 31 March 2024
 79,214 
43,666
Fair valuation done as at 31 March 2024 for all unquoted equity shares are classified as Level 3 within the fair value hierarchy using fair valuation 
methodology. Fair value would not significantly vary if one or more of the inputs were changed.	
13.	
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RELATED POLICIES 
Accounting policy
Financial instruments — Initial recognition and subsequent 
measurement
Initial recognition and measurement
Financial assets within the scope of SLFRS 9 are classified as amortised 
cost, fair value through other comprehensive income (OCI), and fair 
value through profit or loss.
The classification of financial assets at initial recognition depends on the 
financial asset’s contractual cash flow characteristics and the Group’s 
business model for managing them. This assessment is referred to as the 
SPPI test and is performed at an instrument level. The business model 
determines whether cash flows will result from collecting contractual 
cash flows, selling the financial assets, or both. With the exception of 
trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing component 
or for which the Group has applied the practical expedient are measured 
at the transaction price.
At initial recognition, the Group measures a financial asset at its fair value 
plus, in the case of a financial asset not at fair value through profit or loss 
(FVPL), transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition 
of the financial asset. Transaction costs of financial assets carried at FVPL 
are expensed in profit or loss.
The Group’s financial assets include cash and short-term deposits, 
trade and other receivables, loans and other receivables, quoted and 
unquoted financial instruments and derivative financial instruments.
Subsequent measurement
For purposes of subsequent measurement, financial assets are classified 
in four categories
• 	 Financial assets at amortised cost
•	 Financial assets at fair value through OCI with recycling of cumulative 
gains and losses
•	 Financial assets designated at fair value through OCI with no recycling 
of cumulative gains and losses upon derecognition
• 	 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
Debt instruments
Financial assets at amortised cost
Assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows where 
those cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest 
are measured at amortised cost. The Group measures financial assets at 
amortised cost if both of the following conditions are met:
• 	 The financial asset is held within a business model with the objective 
to hold financial assets in order to collect contractual cash flows and
• 	 The contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates 
to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the 
principal amount outstanding. 
Financial assets at amortised cost are subsequently measured using the 
effective interest (EIR) method and are subject to impairment. Gains and 
losses are recognised in profit or loss when the asset is derecognised, 
modified or impaired.
The Group’s financial assets at amortised cost includes trade receivables 
and short term investments.	

306 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Financial assets at fair value through OCI
Assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows and for 
selling the financial assets, where the assets’ cash flows represent solely 
payments of principal and interest, are measured at FVOCI. The Group 
measures debt instruments at fair value through OCI if both of the 
following conditions are met:
• 	 The financial asset is held within a business model with the objective 
of both holding to collect contractual cash flows and selling and;
• 	 The contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates 
to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the 
principal amount outstanding.
Movements in the carrying amount are taken through OCI, except for 
the recognition of impairment gains or losses, interest income and 
foreign exchange gains and losses which are recognised in profit or 
loss. When the financial asset is derecognised, the cumulative gain or 
loss previously recognised in OCI is reclassified from equity to profit or 
loss and recognised in other gains/(losses). Interest income from these 
financial assets is included in finance income using the effective interest 
rate method. Foreign exchange gains and losses are presented in other 
gains/(losses) and impairment expenses are presented as separate line 
item in the income statement. 
Equity Instruments
Financial assets designated at fair value through OCI
Upon initial recognition, the Group can elect to classify irrevocably its 
equity investments as financial assets at fair value through OCI when 
they meet the definition of equity under LKAS 32 Financial Instruments: 
Presentation and are not held for trading. The classification is determined 
on an instrument-by-instrument basis.
Gains and losses on these financial assets are never recycled to profit 
or loss. Dividends are recognised as other income in the statement of 
profit or loss when the right of payment has been established, except 
when the Group benefits from such proceeds as a recovery of part of the 
cost of the financial asset, in which case, such gains are recorded in OCI. 
Equity instruments designated at fair value through OCI are not subject 
to impairment assessment.
The Group elected to classify irrevocably its non-listed equity 
investments under this category.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include financial assets 
held for trading, financial assets designated upon initial recognition at 
fair value through profit or loss, or financial assets mandatorily required 
to be measured at fair value. Financial assets are classified as held for 
trading if they are acquired for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in 
the near term. Derivatives, including separated embedded derivatives, 
are also classified as held for trading unless they are designated as 
effective hedging instruments. Financial assets with cash flows that are 
not solely payments of principal and interest are classified and measured 
at fair value through profit or loss, irrespective of the business model. 
Notwithstanding the criteria for debt instruments to be classified at 
amortised cost or at fair value through OCI, as described above, debt 
instruments may be designated at fair value through profit or loss on 
initial recognition if doing so eliminates, or significantly reduces, an 
accounting mismatch.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are carried in the 
statement of financial position at fair value with net changes in fair value 
recognised in the statement of profit or loss.
This category includes derivative instruments and listed equity 
investments which the Group had not irrevocably elected to classify at 
fair value through OCI. Dividends on listed equity investments are also 
recognised as finance income in the statement of profit or loss when the 
right of payment has been established.
Dividends received from equity instruments have been disclosed in  
Note17.	
Financial assets - derecognition
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash 
flows from the financial assets have expired or have been transferred 
and the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of 
ownership.
Impairment of financial assets
The Group recognises an allowance for expected credit losses (ECLs) for 
all debt instruments not held at fair value through profit or loss. ECLs 
are based on the difference between the contractual cash flows due 
in accordance with the contract and all the cash flows that the Group 
expects to receive, discounted at the Group's effective interest rate. 
13.	
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RELATED POLICIES (CONTD.)

307
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Based on the nature of the sector and the company, the Group is using 
appropriate and company specific LGD’s and PD’s when calculating the 
expected credit loss.
For trade receivables, the Group applies the simplified approach 
permitted by SLFRS 9, which requires expected lifetime losses to be 
recognised from initial recognition of the receivables. The Group has 
established a provision matrix that is based on its historical credit loss 
experience, adjusted for forward-looking factors specific to the debtors 
and the economic environment.
Financial Liabilities
Initial recognition and measurement
Financial liabilities are classified, at initial recognition, as financial 
liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, loans and borrowings, 
payables, or as derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an 
effective hedge, as appropriate.
All financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value and, in the 
case of loans and borrowings and payables, net of directly attributable 
transaction costs.	
The Group’s financial liabilities include trade and other payables, loans 
and borrowings including bank overdrafts, and derivative financial 
instruments.
Subsequent measurement
The measurement of financial liabilities depends on their classification, 
as described below:
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss include financial 
liabilities held for trading and financial liabilities designated upon initial 
recognition as at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial liabilities are classified as held for trading if they are incurred for 
the purpose of repurchasing in the near term. This category also includes 
derivative financial instruments entered into by the Group that are not 
designated as hedging instruments in hedge relationships as defined by 
SLFRS 9. Separated embedded derivatives are also classified as held for 
trading unless they are designated as effective hedging instruments.
Gains or losses on liabilities held for trading are recognised in the Income 
statement.
Loans and borrowings
This is the category most relevant to the Group. After initial recognition, 
interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at 
amortised cost using the EIR method. Gains and losses are recognised in 
profit or loss when the liabilities are derecognised as well as through the 
EIR amortisation process.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or 
premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part of the 
EIR. The EIR amortisation is included as finance costs in the statement of 
profit or loss.
Derecognition
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the 
liability is discharged or cancelled or expires. When an existing 
financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on 
substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are 
substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as 
the derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new 
liability. The difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised 
in the Income statement.
Offsetting of financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is 
reported in the consolidated statement of financial position if there is a 
currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts and 
there is an intention to settle on a net basis, to realise the assets and 
settle the liabilities simultaneously.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting - Initial 
recognition and subsequent measurement
The Group uses derivative financial instruments, such as forward 
currency contracts, interest rate swaps and forward commodity 
contracts, to hedge its foreign currency risks, interest rate risks and 
commodity price risks, respectively. Such derivative financial instruments 
are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative 
contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value. 
Derivatives are carried as financial assets when the fair value is positive 
and as financial liabilities when the fair value is negative.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as:
•	 Fair value hedges when hedging the exposure to changes in the 
fair value of a recognised asset or liability or an unrecognised firm 
commitment
•	 Cash flow hedges when hedging the exposure to variability in cash 
flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a 
recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction 
or the foreign currency risk in an unrecognised firm commitment
•	 Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation.

308 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
13.	
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RELATED POLICIES (CONTD.)
13.1 	 Financial assets and liabilities by categories in accordance with SLFRS 9
GROUP
Financial assets at  
amortised cost
Financial assets at fair value 
through OCI
In Rs.'000s
As at 31 March
2024
2023
2024
2023
 Financial instruments in non-current assets/non-current liabilities 
Non-current financial assets / liabilities
 54,849,214 
 51,296,399 
19,368,145
 12,080,643 
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Leases liabilities
 - 
-
 - 
-
Financial instruments in current assets / current liabilities
Trade and other receivables / payables
 28,377,205 
 21,508,078 
 - 
 - 
Amounts due from / due to related parties
674,179
 317,700 
 - 
 - 
Short term investments / borrowings
 69,376,083 
 82,221,822 
 2,794,192 
-
Cash in hand and at bank
15,417,894
 25,092,977 
 - 
 - 
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
-
-
 - 
-
Leases liabilities
-
-
 - 
-
Bank overdrafts 
-
-
 - 
-
Total
 168,694,575
 180,436,976 
 22,162,337 
 12,080,643 
13.2 	 Financial assets and liabilities by categories in accordance with SLFRS 9
COMPANY
Financial assets at  
amortised cost
Financial assets at fair value 
through OCI
In Rs.'000s
As at 31 March
2024
2023
2024
2023
 Financial instruments in non-current assets/non-current liabilities 
 Non-current financial assets / liabilities
 3,468,026 
 4,367,825 
 43,666 
 37,158 
 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Leases liabilities
-
-
-
-
 Financial instruments in current assets/current liabilities 
 Trade and other receivables / payables 
 460,682 
 207,733 
 - 
-
 Amounts due from / due to related parties 
 1,290,846 
 1,177,616 
 - 
-
 Short term investments / borrowings 
 57,805,464 
 57,473,253 
 - 
-
 Cash in hand and at bank 
 556,930 
 8,232,006 
 - 
-
 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 
-
-
-
-
 Leases liabilities
-
-
-
-
 Bank overdrafts 
-
-
-
-
 Total 
 63,581,948
 71,458,433
 43,666
 37,158

309
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Financial assets at fair value 
through profit or loss 
Total
Financial liabilities 
measured at amortised cost/
fair value
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
 264,457 
 580,009 
 74,481,816 
 63,957,051 
 11,387,177 
20,107,025 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 127,169,502
 159,778,892 
 - 
-
 - 
 - 
 28,080,571 
 32,052,489 
 - 
 - 
 28,377,205 
 21,508,078 
 42,582,596 
 29,866,282 
 - 
 - 
674,179
 317,700 
448,743
 3,615 
 7,860,367 
-
 80,030,642 
 82,221,822 
 21,062,456 
 8,701,652 
 - 
 - 
15,417,894
 25,092,977 
-
-
 - 
-
 - 
 - 
23,216,942
 12,839,426 
 - 
-
 - 
 - 
 3,884,003 
 2,258,653 
 - 
-
 - 
 - 
 32,450,187 
 30,048,743 
 8,124,824 
 580,009 
198,981,736
 193,097,628 
 290,282,177
295,656,777
Total
Financial liabilities measured 
at amortised cost/fair value
2024
2023
2024
2023
 3,511,692 
 4,404,983 
 10,201,449 
18,380,148
 - 
 - 
 55,044,493 
 66,907,718 
-
-
109,139
-
 460,682 
 207,733 
 1,463,935 
 631,405 
 1,290,846 
 1,177,616 
 88,841 
 58,244 
 57,805,464 
 57,473,253 
 13,909,261 
 1,300,000 
 556,930 
 8,232,006 
-
 -
 - 
 - 
 7,670,053 
 3,344,997 
-
-
6,961
-
 - 
 - 
 8,303,941 
 172,372 
 63,625,614 
 71,495,591
96,798,073
90,794,884

310 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
13.3 	 Derivative financial instruments
Cash-flow hedges
GROUP
COMPANY
Contract notional 
amount in USD ‘000s
Fair value
In Rs.‘000s
Contract notional 
amount in USD ‘000s
Fair value
In Rs.‘000s 
As at 31 March
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
Interest rate swap - Derivative asset
 100,000 
100,000
3,294,625
 4,215,838 
 100,000 
100,000
3,294,625
 4,215,838 
The management assessed that, cash and short-term deposits, trade 
receivables, trade payables, bank overdrafts and other current financial 
liabilities approximate their carrying amounts largely due to the short-
term maturities of these instruments.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to 
transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants 
at the measurement date.
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate 
the fair values:
Fair value of quoted equities, debentures and bonds is based on price 
quotations in an active market at the reporting date.
Accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions
Fair value of financial instruments
Where the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded 
in the statement of financial position cannot be derived from active 
markets, their fair value is determined using valuation techniques 
including the discounted cash flow model. The inputs to these models 
are taken from observable markets where possible.
Where this is not feasible, a degree of judgement is required in 
establishing fair values. The judgements include considerations of inputs 
such as liquidity risk, credit risk and volatility. 
NOTES TO THE INCOME STATEMENT, STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE 
INCOME AND STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
14. 	
REVENUE
Accounting policy
14.1 	 Total revenue
14.1.1 Revenue from contract with customers
Revenue from contracts with customers is recognised when control of 
the goods or services is transferred to the customer at an amount that 
reflects the consideration to which the Group expects to be entitled in 
exchange for those goods or services.
The fair value of unquoted instruments, loans from banks and other 
financial liabilities, obligations under finance leases, as well as non-
current financial liabilities are estimated by discounting future cash flows 
using rates currently available for debt on similar terms, credit risk and 
remaining maturities.
Fair value of the unquoted ordinary shares has been estimated using a 
Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) model. The valuation requires management 
to make certain assumptions about the model inputs, including forecast 
cash flows, the discount rate, credit risk and volatility. The probabilities 
of the various estimates within the range can be reasonably assessed 
and are used in management’s estimate of fair value for these unquoted 
equity investments.
13.	
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RELATED POLICIES (CONTD.)
Goods transferred at a point in time
Under SLFRS 15, revenue is recognised upon satisfaction of a 
performance obligation. The revenue recognition occurs at a point in 
time when control of the asset is transferred to the customer, generally, 
on delivery of the goods. 
Services transferred over time
Under SLFRS 15, the Group determines, at contract inception, whether it 
satisfies the performance obligation over time or at a point in time. For 
each performance obligation satisfied over time, the Group recognises 
the revenue over time by measuring the progress towards complete 
satisfaction of that performance obligation. 
14.1.2 Revenue from insurance contracts
Revenue from insurance contracts comprise of gross written premiums 
net of premium ceded to reinsurers.
14.2 	 Disaggregation of revenue 
The Group presented disaggregated revenue with Group’s reportable 
segments based on timing of revenue recognition and geographical 
region in the operating segment information section.

311
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
In Rs.'000s
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
Note
2024
2023
2024
2023
Timing of revenue recognition
Goods transferred at a point in time
 207,061,370 
 213,110,409 
 - 
 - 
Services transferred over time
 55,277,005 
 47,576,963 
 2,916,390 
 2,543,712 
Total revenue from contracts with customers
14.1.1
 262,338,375 
 260,687,372 
 2,916,390 
 2,543,712 
Revenue from insurance contracts 
14.1.2
 18,434,229 
 15,952,535 
 - 
 - 
Total revenue
 280,772,604 
 276,639,907 
 2,916,390 
 2,543,712 
For the better understanding of the Industry segment revenue, please refer Note 8.3 - 8.5 Business Segment analysis - Disaggregation of revenue.
14.3 	 Reconciliation of revenue 
Reconciliation between Revenue from contracts with customers 
and revenue for each reportable segment has been provided in the 
operating segment information section.
14.4 	 Contract balances
Contract assets
Contract assets are the Group’s right to consideration in exchange for 
goods or services that the Group has transferred to a customer, with 
rights that are conditional on some criteria other than the passage of 
time. Upon satisfaction of the conditions, the amounts recognised as 
contract assets are reclassified to trade receivables.
Contract liabilities
Contract liabilities are the Group's obligation to transfer goods or 
services to a customer for which the Group has received consideration 
(or the amount is due) from the customer. Contract liabilities include 
long-term advances received to deliver goods and services, short-term 
advances received to render certain services as well as transaction price 
allocated to unexpired service warranties, and loyalty points not yet 
redeemed. 
In Rs.'000s
GROUP
Contract balances
Performance obligations 
satisfied
As at / for the year ended 31 March
Note
2024
2023
2024
2023
Contract assets
286,539
230,530
-
-
Contract liabilities
	 Other non current liabilities
40
395,686
 158,640 
 - 
-
	 Trade and other payables
41
 179,618 
 186,264 
 355,053 
348,091
	 Other current liabilities
43
2,085,632
2,016,418
 3,490 
3,422
 2,660,936 
2,361,322
 358,543 
351,513

312 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
14. 	
REVENUE (CONTD.) 
14.5 	 Performance obligations and significant judgements
The Group’s performance obligations and significant judgements are 
summarised below:
Transportation
This operating segment provides an array of transportation related 
services, which primarily include a marine bunkering business, shipping, 
logistics and air transportation multinationals as well as travel and airline 
services. In providing airline services, net revenue is recognised at a point 
in time upon the sale of tickets as the entity is deemed as the agent. 
Total transaction price is comprised of cost and commission which is 
equal to the total ticketing service fee.
In providing Marine Services, the principal activity of the entity is to 
supply bunker services to their customers, in exchange for a bunker 
fee. The performance obligation can be termed as bunkering services. 
Revenue is recognised at a point in time, upon supply of the bunker to 
the vessels. Transaction price shall comprise of cost and mark up which 
is equal to total bunkering fee.
Consumer Foods 
Consumer Foods segment focuses on manufacturing of a wide range 
of beverages, frozen confectionery, processed meat and dairy products. 
Revenue is recognised at the point in time when the control of the asset 
is transferred to the customer, which is generally upon delivery of the 
goods. Revenue is measured based on actual sales, and therefore the 
output method is used for revenue recognition.
Retail
The Retail segment focuses on modern organised retailing through 
a chain of supermarkets. The office automation business comprises 
of distribution of printers, copiers, smartphones and other office 
automation equipment.
Revenue is recognised upon satisfaction of a performance obligation. 
The revenue recognition occurs at a point in time when control of the 
asset is transferred to the customer, which is generally upon delivery 
of the goods. The output method will provide a faithful depiction in 
recognising revenue. 
Customers who purchase from outlets may enter the entity’s customer 
loyalty programme and earn points that are redeemable against future 
purchases of the entity’s products. The entity will allocate a portion 
of the transaction price to the loyalty programme based on relative 
standalone selling price.
Leisure 
Leisure segment comprises of city hotels, resort hotels, as well as 
destination management business.
The revenue for providing the services are usually recognised at or 
after the guests' departure, over the period of stay or at the point of 
arrival of guests. The entity identifies the services under each contract 
as one performance obligation. The revenue is accounted based on 
the output method. Since revenue will be based on the final good or 
service provided, the output method will provide a faithful depiction in 
recognising revenue. 
In providing destination management services, the entity acts as the 
principal. Customer receives and consumes the benefits of the entity's 
performance, as and when the service is performed. Therefore, revenue 
is recognised at gross over the period, based on the output method. 
The timing and the amount of cash flow will vary according to the 
agreements.
Transaction price shall comprise of supplier fee and company mark-up, 
summing up to be the Gross Service fee. The advance payments are 
recognised as a liability. Upon provision of the services, the liability is set 
off and revenue is recognised over the period.	
Property
Property industry group concentrates on property development and 
property management.
At inception of the contract, the entity determines whether it satisfies 
the performance obligation over time or at a point in time. Timing and 
amount of cash flow will be determined according to the agreement.
Financial Services
Financial Services provides a complete range of financial solutions 
including commercial banking, insurance, stock broking, debt trading, 
fund management and leasing. The services under one contract can be 
identified as one performance obligation.
Entity determines at contract inception whether it satisfies the 
performance obligation over time or at a point in time. For each 
performance obligation satisfied overtime, the entity recognises the 
revenue over time by measuring the progress towards complete 
satisfaction of that performance obligation. The output method will 
provide a faithful depiction in recognising revenue. 
Others
Others represents companies in the Plantation Industry, Information 
Technology, Management and Investments companies. The main 
streams of revenue; Management fees, BPO service fees and Consultancy 
fees, are recognised over a period of time, depending on service level 
agreements. 
Some contracts include multiple deliverables. Where the contracts 
include multiple performance obligations, the transaction price will 
be allocated to each performance obligation based on the stand-
alone selling prices. Where these are not directly observable, they are 
estimated based on expected cost plus margin.
Remaining performance obligations
The Group applies the practical expedient and does not disclose the 
amount of the transaction price allocated to the remaining performance 
obligations and an explanation of when the Group expects to recognise 
that amount as revenue for the year ended 31 March 2024.

313
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
15. 	
DIVIDEND INCOME 
Accounting policy 
Dividend
Dividend income is recognised when right to receive the payment is established.
In Rs.'000s
For the year ended 31 March
COMPANY
2024
2023
Dividend income from investments in subsidiaries and equity accounted investees
 11,503,190
 10,635,000
16. 	
OTHER OPERATING INCOME AND OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES 
Accounting policy 
Gains and losses
Net gains and losses of a revenue nature arising from the disposal of 
property, plant and equipment and other non-current assets, including 
investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, are accounted 
in the income statement, after deducting from the proceeds on disposal, 
the carrying amount of such assets and the related selling expenses.
Gains and losses arising from activities incidental to the main revenue 
generating activities and those arising from a group of similar 
transactions, which are not material are aggregated, reported and 
presented on a net basis.
Any losses arising from guaranteed rentals are accounted for, in the 
year of incurring the same. A provision is recognised if the projection 
indicates a loss.
Other income and expenses
Other income and expenses are recognised on an accrual basis.
16.1 	 Other operating income
In Rs.'000s
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
2024
2023
2024
2023
Promotional income and commission fee
 2,269,364 
 1,969,177 
 - 
 - 
Exchange gains
 741,872 
-
 - 
-
(Profit) / loss on sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
 8,214 
 14,230 
11
 - 
Sundry income
 1,490,967 
 1,277,214 
 125,257 
 41,219 
 4,510,417 
 3,260,621 
 125,268 
 41,219 
16.2 	 Other operating expenses 
In Rs.'000s
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
2024
2023
2024
2023
Provisions and impairment losses
 638,900 
 1,106,367 
 - 
 684,451 
Heat, light and power
 2,959,811 
 2,479,316 
 - 
 - 
Exchange loss
 - 
 2,829,548 
 - 
 - 
Other overheads
4,589,601
 3,410,542
 86,595 
 63,703 
 8,188,312
 9,825,773 
 86,595 
 748,154 
During the year under review, a new residential project, “VIMAN” was 
launched by John Keells Properties Ja-ela (Pvt) Ltd which resulted in a 
de-recognition loss of Rs.639 Mn due to the write-off of the building. 
Last year, the Group balance includes Rs.422 Mn as impairment provision 
on the preference share investment in Saffron Aviation (Pvt) Ltd while 
the Company recognised Rs.684 Mn as an impairment loss of advance 
payments done for the advanced analytics use cases.	

314 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
17.	
NET FINANCE INCOME 
Accounting policy 
Finance income
Finance income comprises of interest income on funds invested 
including interest income from the life insurance fund of Union 
Assurance PLC, dividend income, gains on the disposal of fair value 
through OCI financial assets, fair value gains on financial assets at fair 
value through profit or loss, gains on the remeasurement to fair value 
of any pre-existing interest in an acquiree that are recognised in the 
income statement.
Interest income is recorded as it accrues using the effective interest 
rate (EIR), which is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future 
cash receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument or 
a shorter period, where appropriate, to the net carrying amount of the 
financial asset. Interest income is included in finance income in the 
income statement.
Finance costs
Finance costs comprise interest expense on borrowings, unwinding of 
the discount on provisions, losses on disposal of fair value through OCI 
financial assets, fair value losses on financial assets at fair value through 
profit or loss, impairment losses recognised on financial assets (other 
than trade receivables) that are recognised in the income statement.
Interest expense is recorded as it accrues using the effective interest 
rate (EIR), which is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future 
cash payments through the expected life of the financial instrument or 
a shorter period, where appropriate, to the net carrying amount of the 
financial liability.
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or 
production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time 
to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost 
of the respective assets. All other borrowing costs are expensed in the 
period they occur. Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs 
that the Group incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds.
In Rs.'000s
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
Note
2024
2023
2024
2023
Net finance income 
Finance income
Interest income
17.1
 18,027,120 
 16,859,268 
 5,787,333 
 6,868,182 
Dividend income on
	 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
 154,075 
 122,681 
 - 
 - 
	 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income
 2,314 
 8,418 
 - 
 - 
Realised gains on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
 841,411 
 392,743 
 - 
 - 
Unrealised gains on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
 1,012,306 
 170,719
 - 
 - 
Investment related direct expenses
 (101,831)
 (113,773)
 - 
 - 
Exchange gains
 2,632,244 
 9,459,720 
 - 
 9,459,720 
Total finance income
 22,567,639 
 26,899,776 
 5,787,333 
 16,327,902 
Finance cost
Interest expense on borrowings
 (13,822,692)
 (13,726,751)
 (7,763,945)
(6,539,398)
Finance charge on lease liabilities
23.1.2
 (2,012,793)
 (1,836,690)
 (1,193)
 - 
Finance charge on convertible debentures
 (3,833,366)
 (2,239,427)
 (3,833,367)
 (2,239,427)
Exchange loss
 - 
 - 
 (372,036)
 - 
Total finance cost
 (19,668,851)
 (17,802,868)
 (11,970,541)
 (8,778,825)
Net finance income
 2,898,788 
 9,096,908 
 (6,183,208)
 7,549,077 
17.1	 Interest income
In Rs.'000s
For the year ended 31 March
GROUP
2024
2023
Interest income from life insurance policy holder funds at Union Assurance PLC
 11,085,318 
 8,474,271 
Interest income of the Group excluding Union Assurance PLC
 6,941,802 
 8,384,997 
Total interest income
 18,027,120 
 16,859,268 

315
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
18.	
PROFIT BEFORE TAX 
 Accounting policy 
Expenditure recognition
Expenses are recognised in the income statement on the basis of a 
direct association between the cost incurred and the earning of specific 
items of income. All expenditure incurred in the running of the business 
and in maintaining the property, plant and equipment in a state of 
efficiency has been charged to the income statement.
For the purpose of presentation of the income statement, the “function 
of expenses” method has been adopted, on the basis that it presents 
fairly the elements of the Company’s and Group’s performance.
In Rs.'000s
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
2024
2023
2024
2023
Profit before tax 
Profit before tax is stated after charging all expenses including the following; 
Remuneration to executive directors
 761,051 
 620,151 
 262,282 
196,094
Remuneration to non executive directors
 83,817 
 71,658 
 25,752 
19,725
Costs of defined employee benefits
Defined benefit plan cost
 804,199
425,375
66,581
 27,626 
Defined contribution plan cost - EPF and ETF
 1,733,566 
 1,475,419 
133,331
97,851
Other long term employee benefits cost
 (24,139)
 (621,057)
-
(151,006)
Staff expenses
 26,132,892 
 21,283,417 
1,322,384
924,883
Share based payments
 341,011 
 274,062 
 94,585 
78,989
Auditors’ remuneration
Audit
76,891
72,429
12,730
10,239
Non-audit
4,567
10,924
1,240
2,061
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment
 6,545,420 
 6,280,610 
 44,805 
 45,153 
Amortisation of intangible assets
 987,012 
 852,249 
 28,034 
 31,551 
Amortisation of right of use assets
 3,931,743 
 4,151,230 
1,287
 - 
Provisions and impairment losses
 638,900 
 1,106,367 
-
 684,451 
(Profit) / loss on sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
(8,214)
 (14,230)
(11)
-
Donations
 42,559 
 106,612 
-
101,377

316 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
19.1 	 Basic earnings per share
In Rs.'000s
For the year ended 31 March
Note
GROUP
2024
2023
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent
 11,248,152 
 18,173,868 
Weighted average number of ordinary shares
19.3
 1,395,945 
 1,384,917 
Basic earnings per share
8.06
 13.12 
19.2 	 Diluted earnings per share 
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent
 11,248,152 
 18,173,868 
Adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares 
19.3
 1,399,003 
 1,384,948 
Diluted earnings per share
8.04
 13.12 
19.3 	 Amount used as denominator 
In Rs.'000s
Number of shares
For the year ended 31 March
GROUP
2024
2023
Ordinary shares at the beginning of the year
 1,384,917 
 1,384,917 
Effect of conversion of convertible debentures
9,167
 - 
Effect of share options exercised 
1,861
 - 
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue before dilution
 1,395,945 
 1,384,917 
Effects of dilution from:
	 Share option scheme
 3,058 
31
Adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares
 1,399,003 
 1,384,948
20. 	
DIVIDEND PER SHARE
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
2024
2023
Rs
In Rs.'000s
Rs
In Rs.'000s
Equity dividend on ordinary shares declared and paid during the year
Final dividend (Previous years’ final dividend paid in the current year)
 0.50 
 692,458 
 0.50 
 692,458 
Interim dividends
 1.00 
 1,388,015 
 1.50 
 2,077,375 
Total dividend
 1.50 
 2,080,473 
 2.00 
 2,769,833 
21. 	
TAXES
Accounting policy 
Current tax
Current tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are 
measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to 
the taxation authorities. The tax rates and tax laws used to compute 
the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted, at the 
reporting date in the countries where the Group operates and generates 
taxable income.
Current income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is 
recognised in equity and for items recognised in other comprehensive 
income shall be recognised in other comprehensive income and not in 
the income statement. Management periodically evaluates positions 
taken in the tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable 
tax regulations are subject to interpretation and establishes provisions 
where appropriate.
19.	
EARNINGS PER SHARE
Accounting policy
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to 
ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number 
of ordinary shares outstanding during the year. Diluted EPS is calculated 
by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the 
parent (after adjusting for outstanding share options) by the weighted 
average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year plus 
the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued 
on conversion of all the dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary 
shares.

317
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Management has used its judgment on the application of tax laws 
including transfer pricing regulations involving identification of 
associated undertakings, estimation of the respective arm’s length prices 
and selection of appropriate pricing mechanisms.
The Group has complied with the arm’s length principles relating to 
transfer pricing as prescribed in the Inland Revenue Act.
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is provided using the liability method on temporary 
differences at the reporting date between the tax bases of assets and 
liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary 
differences, except:
• 	 Where the deferred tax liability arising from the initial recognition of 
goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business 
combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the 
accounting profit nor the taxable profit or loss; and
•	 In respect of taxable temporary differences associated with 
investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, 
where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be 
controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not 
reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, 
and unused tax credits and tax losses carried forward, to the extent 
that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the 
deductible temporary differences and the unused tax credits and tax 
losses carried forward can be utilised except:
•	 Where the deferred income tax assets relating to the deductible 
temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or 
liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the 
time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable 
profit or loss; and 
•	 In respect of deducible temporary differences associated with 
investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, 
deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable 
that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future 
and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary 
differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each 
reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable 
that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the 
deferred tax asset to be utilised. Unrecognised deferred tax assets are 
reassessed at each reporting date and are recognised to the extent that 
it has become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred 
tax asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at tax rates that are 
expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or liability is 
settled, based on the tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or 
substantively enacted as at the reporting date.
Deferred tax relating to items recognised outside the income statement 
is recognised outside the income statement. Deferred tax items are 
recognised in correlation to the underlying transaction either in other 
comprehensive income or directly in equity.
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset, if a legally 
enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current tax 
liabilities and when the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity 
and the same taxation authority.
No deferred tax asset or liability has been recognised in the companies 
which are enjoying the Board of Investment (BOI) tax holiday period, if 
there are no qualifying assets or liabilities beyond the tax holiday period.
Sales tax
Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of sales 
tax except:
•	 Where the sales tax incurred on the purchase of an asset or service is 
not recoverable from the taxation authority, in which case the sales 
tax is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as 
part of the expense item as applicable; and
•	 Where receivables and payables are stated with the amount of sales 
tax included.
The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation 
authority is included as part of receivables or payables in the statement 
of financial position.
IFRIC interpretation 23 uncertainty over income tax treatment 
The Interpretation addresses the accounting for income taxes when 
tax treatments involve uncertainty that affects the application of LKAS 
12 Income Taxes. It does not apply to taxes or levies outside the scope 
of LKAS 12, nor does it specifically include requirements relating to 
interest and penalties associated with uncertain tax treatments. The 
Interpretation specifically addresses the following: 
• 	 Whether an entity considers uncertain tax treatments separately 
• 	 The assumptions an entity makes about the examination of tax 
treatments by taxation authorities 
• 	 How an entity determines taxable profit (tax loss), tax bases, unused tax 
losses, unused tax credits and tax rates 
• 	 How an entity considers changes in facts and circumstances 
The Group determines whether to consider each uncertain tax 
treatment separately or together with one or more other uncertain tax 
treatments and uses the approach that better predicts the resolution of 
the uncertainty.
The Group applies significant judgement in identifying uncertainties 
over income tax treatments. Since the Group operates in a complex 
environment, it assessed whether the Interpretation had an impact on its 
consolidated financial statements.
Upon adoption of the Interpretation, the Group considered whether it 
has any uncertain tax positions and Group determined that it is probable 
that its tax treatments (including those for the subsidiaries) will be 
accepted by the taxation authorities. The Interpretation did not have an 
impact on the consolidated financial statements of the Group. 

318 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Temporary differences associated with the undistributed reserves in subsidiaries for which a deferred tax liability has not been recognised, amounts to 
Rs.915 Mn (2023 - Rs.1,985 Mn). The deferred tax effect on undistributed reserves of subsidiaries has not been recognised since the parent can control 
the timing of the reversal of these temporary differences.
21. 	
TAXES (CONTD.)
21.1 	 Tax expense 
In Rs.'000s
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
Note
2024
2023
2024
2023
Income statement
Current tax charge
21.5
 4,909,128 
 5,251,698 
 - 
2,057,640
	 (Over)/Under provision of current tax of previous years
 (386,891)
 (646,128)
 - 
-
	 Irrecoverable tax (economic service charge and remittance tax)
21.7
 129,812 
 8,925 
 6,296 
-
Deferred tax charge/(reversal)
	 Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences
21.2
 1,234,341 
 (921,202)
 - 
-
21.6
 5,886,390 
 3,693,293 
 6,296 
2,057,640
 
 
Other comprehensive income
Deferred tax charge/(reversal)
	 Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences
21.2 
 1,109,091 
 7,688,637 
-
-
 1,109,091 
 7,688,637 
-
-
21.2 	 Deferred tax expense
In Rs.'000s
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
2024
2023
2024
2023
Income statement
Deferred tax expense arising from;
	 Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes
 (86,531)
 883,146 
 2,790 
3,487
	 Revaluation of investment property to fair value
 68,180 
 960,902 
 - 
-
	 Retirement benefit obligations
 (94,965)
 (109,207)
 (13,265)
8,170
	 Reversal / (Benefits) arising from tax losses
 1,790,033 
 (2,822,192)
 235,770 
294,713
	 Unrealised capital gains/others
 (442,376)
 166,149 
 (225,295)
(306,370)
Deferred tax charged/(reversal) directly to Income Statement
 1,234,341 
 (921,202)
-
-
Other comprehensive income
Deferred tax expense arising from;
	 Actuarial losses on defined benefit obligations
 (124,195)
 37,850 
-
-
	 Revaluation of land and building to fair value
 1,233,286 
 7,650,787 
-
-
Deferred tax charged/(reversal) directly to OCI
 1,109,091 
 7,688,637
-
-

319
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
21.3 	 Income tax liabilities
In Rs.'000s
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2024
2023
2024
2023
At the beginning of the year
 1,798,855 
 2,618,554 
 888,214 
 880,969
Charge for the year
 2,544,021 
 2,475,665 
 - 
2,057,640
Payments and set off against refunds
 (2,518,111)
 (3,295,364)
 (630,000)
(2,050,395)
At the end of the year
 1,824,765 
 1,798,855 
 258,214 
888,214
21.4 	 Deferred tax 
In Rs.'000s
GROUP
COMPANY
 ASSETS
LIABILITIES
LIABILITIES
As at 31 March
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
At the beginning of the year
 2,582,275  1,554,438  19,687,569  12,016,404  2,841,984  2,841,984
Charge and release
 (684,825)
 887,641  1,659,326  7,671,165 
 - 
-
Transfers / exchange differences 
 (181,189)
 140,196 
 (124,637)
 - 
 - 
-
At the end of the year
 1,716,261  2,582,275  21,222,258  19,687,569  2,841,984  2,841,984
The closing deferred tax asset and liability balances relate to the 
following;
Revaluation of land and building to fair value
 (589,663)
 (495,207)  14,427,658  14,007,848 
-
-
Revaluation of investment property to fair value
 (23,850)
 - 
 165,193  3,930,908 
-
-
Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes
 (398,616)
 96,240  3,155,993  3,955,708 
 13,789 
5,514
Employee benefit liability
 195,119 
 127,925 
 (502,664)
 (368,839)
 (97,465)
(66,167)
Losses available for offset against future taxable income
 1,648,541  2,601,568  (1,342,732)  (1,804,729)
 235,770 
-
Net gain/loss on fair value through OCI
 72,873 
 - 
 - 
 (33,327)
 - 
-
Unrealised capital gains/others
 811,857 
 251,749  5,318,810 
 -  2,689,890 
2,902,637
 1,716,261  2,582,275  21,222,258  19,687,569  2,841,984  2,841,984 
A deferred tax liability for the Group amounting to Rs.955 Mn  
(2023 – Rs.955 Mn) has been recognised based on the impact 
of declared dividends of subsidiaries and the Group’s portion of 
distributable reserves of equity accounted investees.
Accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions 
The Group is subject to income tax and other taxes including VAT. 
Significant judgement was required to determine the total provision for 
current, deferred and other taxes due to uncertainties that exist with 
respect to the interpretation of the applicability of tax law at the time of 
the preparation of these financial statements.
Uncertainties also exist with respect to the interpretation of complex tax 
regulations and the amount and timing of future taxable income. 
Given the wide range of business relationships and the long-term 
nature and complexity of existing contractual agreements, differences 
arising between the actual results and the assumptions made, or future 
changes to such assumptions, could necessitate future adjustments to 
tax income and expense already recorded. Where the final tax outcome 
of such matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, 
such differences will impact the income and deferred tax amounts in the 
period in which the determination is made.
The Group has contingent tax liability amounting to Rs.2,352 Mn 
(2023 - Rs.2,353 Mn). These have been arrived at after discussing with 
independent legal and tax experts and based on information available. 
All assumptions are revisited as of the reporting date.	

320 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
21. 	
TAXES (CONTD.) 
21.5	 Reconciliation between current tax charge and the accounting profit 
In Rs.'000s
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
2024
2023
2024
2023
Profit before tax
 18,013,924 
 22,589,417 
 4,258,609 
16,766,924
Dividend income from Group companies
 13,646,673 
 12,838,346 
 - 
-
Share of results of equity accounted investees (net of tax)
 (10,129,014)
 (7,573,543)
 - 
-
Other consolidation adjustments
 (565,516)
 (907,462)
 - 
-
Profit after adjustments
 20,966,067 
 26,946,758 
 4,258,609 
16,766,924
Exempt profits
 (1,426,860)
 (8,257,531)
-
(6,341,931)
Income not liable for income tax
 (4,658,673)
 (10,754,364)
 (4,315,723)
(9,483,972)
Resident dividend
 (13,220,469)
 (5,361,312)
 (11,485,030)
(4,730,328)
Adjusted accounting profit chargeable to income taxes
 1,660,065 
 2,573,551 
 (11,542,144)
(3,789,307)
Disallowable expenses
 26,256,860 
 27,270,260 
 11,439,497 
9,128,503
Allowable expenses
 (17,890,882)
 (24,927,414)
 (3,176,879)
(9,735,830)
Utilisation of tax losses
 (4,947,050)
 (6,914,133)
 (305,826)
(1,882,772)
Current year tax losses not utilised
4,824,241
 1,945,620 
 3,585,352 
-
Tax effect on investment income 
 - 
 20,218,305 
-
20,218,305
Qualifying payment deductions
 (817)
 (100,187)
-
(100,187)
Taxable income
9,902,417
 20,066,002 
 - 
13,838,712
Income tax charged at:
	 Standard rate 
 4,702,049 
 4,652,313 
-
803,633
	 Other concessionary rates 
 207,079 
 599,385 
-
1,254,007
Current tax charge
 4,909,128 
 5,251,698 
-
2,057,640
21.6	 Reconciliation between tax expense and the product of accounting profit 
In Rs.'000s
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
2024
2023
2024
2023
Adjusted accounting profit chargeable to income taxes
 1,660,065 
 2,573,551
(11,542,144)
(3,789,307)
Tax effect on chargeable profits
 2,780,062
2,057,362
-
(556,530)
Tax effect on non deductible expenses
 645,448 
 324,694 
-
65,143
Tax effect on deductions claimed
 (262,310)
 (879,004)
-
(38,563)
Net tax effect of unrecognised deferred tax assets for the year
 2,980,269 
 (1,126,112)
-
-
Under/(over) provision for previous years
 (386,891)
 (646,128)
-
-
Deferred tax due to carried forward tax losses
 - 
 705,811 
-
-
Deferred tax due to tax rate change on the temporary differences of previous years
 - 
660,155
-
-
Other income based taxes:
	 Irrecoverable tax (economic service charge and remittance tax)
 129,812
 8,925 
 6,296
-
 	 Tax effect on investment income
-
 2,587,590 
-
2,587,590
Tax expense
 5,886,390
 3,693,293 
 6,296
2,057,640
Group tax expense is based on the taxable profit of individual companies within the Group. At present the tax laws of Sri Lanka do not provide for 
Group taxation.

321
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
21.9	  Applicable rates of income tax 
The tax liability of resident companies are computed at the standard rate of 30% except for the following companies which enjoy full or partial 
exemptions and concessions.
COMPANY / SECTOR
Basis
Exemptions 
or 
concessions
Period
Exemptions / concessions granted under the Inland Revenue Act
John Keells Properties Ja-Ela (Pvt) Ltd 
New undertaking engaged in construction of 
commercial buildings
Exempt
9 years from 1st April 2015
Sancity Hotels & Properties Ltd (Subsidiary of Capitol 
Hotel Holdings (Pvt) Ltd)
Construction and operation of a tourist hotel
- do -
12 years from 1st year of profit 
or 2 years from operations 
Cinnamon Hotel Management Ltd 
Export of services 
- do -
Open ended
Cinnamon Hotel Management International Pvt Ltd
- do -
- do -
- do -
Walkers Tours Ltd
- do -
- do -
- do -
Whittall Boustead Travels Ltd
- do -
- do -
- do -
John Keells International (Pvt) Ltd
- do -
- do -
- do -
Infomate (Pvt) Ltd
- do -
- do -
- do -
John Keells Information Technology (Pvt) Ltd
- do -
- do -
- do -
Exemptions / concessions granted under the Board of Investment Law
Asian Hotels and Properties PLC
Construction and operation of office, 
apartment complex and a hotel
2% of 
turnover
15 years from 1st April 2014
John Keells Logistics (Pvt) Ltd (Sites covered by the 
BOI agreement)
Warehousing
20%
Open ended
Waterfront Properties (Pvt) Ltd
Integrated super luxury tourist  
resort
Exempt
10 years from 1st year of profit  
or 3 years from operations
 
21.7	 Irrecoverable tax (economic service charge and remittance tax)
In Rs.'000s
For the year ended 31 March
GROUP
COMPANY
2024
2023
2024
2023
Irrecoverable tax (economic service charge and remittance tax)
129,812
 8,925 
6,296
-
129,812
 8,925 
6,296
-
21.8	 Tax losses carried forward
In Rs.'000s
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
2024
2023
2024
2023
Tax losses brought forward
 12,872,655 
 16,157,602 
 1,230,471 
 1,230,471 
Adjustments on finalisation of liability
 456,987 
 140,433 
 - 
-
Tax losses arising during the year
 6,071,558 
 3,488,753 
 - 
-
Utilisation of tax losses
 (4,944,757)
 (6,914,133)
 - 
-
 14,456,443 
 12,872,655 
 1,230,471 
 1,230,471
The Group has tax losses amounting to Rs.14,456 Mn (2023 - Rs.12,873 Mn) are available to offset against future taxable profits of the companies in 
which the tax losses arose.

322 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
22.	
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 
Accounting policy 
Basis of recognition
Property, plant and equipment are recognised if it is probable that future 
economic benefits associated with the asset will flow to the Group and 
the cost of the asset can be reliably measured.
Basis of measurement
Property, plant and equipment except for land and buildings are stated 
at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment 
loss. Such cost includes the cost of replacing component parts of the 
plant and equipment and borrowing costs for long-term construction 
projects if the recognition criteria are met. When significant parts of 
plant and equipment are required to be replaced at intervals, the Group 
derecognises the replaced part, and recognises the new part with its 
own associated useful life and depreciation. Likewise, when a major 
inspection is performed, its cost is recognised in the carrying amount of 
the plant and equipment as a replacement if the recognition criteria are 
satisfied. All other repair and maintenance costs are recognised in the 
income statement as incurred.
Land and buildings are measured at fair value less accumulated 
depreciation on buildings and impairment charged subsequent to the 
date of the revaluation.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for 
impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the 
carrying value may not be recoverable.
Any revaluation surplus is recognised in other comprehensive income 
and accumulated in equity under the revaluation reserve, except to 
the extent that it reverses a revaluation decrease of the same asset 
previously recognised in the income statement, in which case the 
increase is recognised in the income statement. A revaluation deficit is 
recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it offsets 
an existing surplus on the same asset recognised in the asset revaluation 
reserve.
21. 	
TAXES (CONTD.) 
21.10	 Income tax rates of off-shore subsidiaries
Country of incorporation
Company
Rate
India
John Keells Foods India (Pvt) Ltd
25%
Mauritius
John Keells BPO International (Pvt) Ltd
15%
John Keells BPO Holdings (Pvt) Ltd
15%
Republic of Maldives
Fantasea World Investments (Pte) Ltd
15%
Travel Club (Pte) Ltd
15%
Tranqulity (Pte) Ltd
15%
John Keells Maldivian Resorts (Pte) Ltd
15%
Mack Air Services Maldives (Pte) Ltd
15%
Singapore
John Keells Singapore (Pte) Ltd
17% (Max)
Accumulated depreciation as at the revaluation date is eliminated 
against the gross carrying amount of the asset and the net amount 
is restated to the revalued amount of the asset. Upon disposal, 
any revaluation reserve relating to the particular asset being sold 
is transferred to retained earnings. Where land and buildings are 
subsequently revalued, the entire class of such assets is revalued at fair 
value on the date of revaluation. The Group has adopted a policy of 
revaluing assets by professional valuers at least every 5 years, except for 
properties held for rental and occupied mainly by group companies, 
which are revalued by professional valuers at least every 3 years.
Derecognition
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon 
replacement, disposal or when no future economic benefits are 
expected from its use. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of 
the asset is included in the income statement in the year the asset is 
derecognised.
Depreciation
Depreciation is calculated by using a straight-line method on the cost or 
valuation of all property, plant and equipment, other than freehold land, 
in order to write off such amounts over the estimated useful economic 
life of such assets.
The estimated useful life of assets is as follows:
Assets
Years
Buildings (other than hotels)
50
Hotel buildings
up to 70 
Plant and machinery
10 – 25
Equipment
2– 15
Furniture and fittings
2– 15
Motor vehicles
4 – 10
Returnable containers
10
Vessels 
10-25
Other
3-20

323
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
the asset. Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement, 
except that, impairment losses in respect of property, plant and 
equipment previously revalued are recognised against the revaluation 
reserve through the statement of other comprehensive income to the 
extent that it reverses a previous revaluation surplus.
An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is 
any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no 
longer exist or may have decreased. If such an indication exists, the 
recoverable amount is estimated. A previously recognised impairment 
loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used 
to determine the asset’s recoverable amount since the last impairment 
loss was recognised. If that is the case, the carrying amount of the asset 
is increased to its recoverable amount. That increased amount cannot 
exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of 
depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in 
prior years. Such reversal is recognised in the income statement unless 
the asset is carried at revalued amount, in which case the reversal is 
treated as a revaluation increase. After such a reversal, the depreciation 
charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate the asset’s revised 
carrying amount, less any residual value, on a systematic basis over its 
remaining useful life.
Borrowing costs 
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction 
or production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of 
time to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the 
cost of the asset. All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period 
in which they occur. Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs 
that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds.
Impairment of property plant and equipment
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication 
that an asset may be impaired. If any such indication exists, or when 
annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group makes 
an estimate of the asset’s recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable 
amount is the higher of an asset’s or cash generating unit’s fair value 
less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual 
asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely 
independent of those from other assets or groups of assets. Where the 
carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset 
is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount. 
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted 
to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current 
market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to 

324 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
22. 	
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTD.)
22.1 	 Property, plant and equipment - Group 
In Rs.’000s
As at 31 March
Land and
buildings
 Buildings on 
 leasehold 
 land 
Plant and
machinery
Equipment,
furniture
and fittings
Cost or valuation
At the beginning of the year
 71,020,168 
 49,919,175 
 19,870,135 
 20,094,423 
Additions
 363,207 
 1,044,869 
 991,466 
 1,660,970 
Disposals
 (6,414)
 (30,689)
 (211,736)
 (405,391)
Revaluations
 2,923,204 
 1,574,428 
 - 
 - 
Transfers (from revaluation adjustment)
 (88,314)
 (659,789)
 - 
 - 
Transfers 
 53,747 
 208,710 
 155,225 
 191,476 
Exchange differences 
 - 
 (1,844,517)
 (212,632)
 (541,010)
At the end of the year
 74,265,598 
 50,212,187 
 20,592,458 
 21,000,468 
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
At the beginning of the year 
 (1,248,861)
 (8,974,417)
 (9,675,498)
 (11,695,505)
Charge for the year
 (399,288)
 (1,969,928)
 (1,425,356)
 (1,847,531)
Disposals
 189 
 11,622 
 193,006 
 356,608 
Transfers (from revaluation adjustment)
 88,314
659,789
 - 
 - 
Transfers 
 630 
 1,387 
 16,210 
 2,913 
Exchange differences
 - 
 665,831 
 140,797 
 380,109 
At the end of the year
 (1,559,016)
 (9,605,716)
 (10,750,841)
 (12,803,406)
Carrying value
As at 31 March 2024
 72,706,582
40,606,471
 9,841,617 
 8,197,062 
 As at 31 March 2023 
 69,771,307 
 40,944,758 
 10,194,637 
 8,398,918 
22.2 	 Property, plant and equipment - Company 
In Rs.’000s
As at 31 March
 Plant and 
 machinery 
 Equipment, 
 furniture 
 and fittings 
 Motor 
 vehicles 
Total
2024
Total
2023
Cost
At the beginning of the year
 3,454 
 386,388 
 50,162 
 440,004 
 337,664 
Additions
 - 
 22,713 
 - 
 22,713 
 102,340 
Disposals
 - 
 (1,035)
 - 
 (1,035)
 - 
At the end of the year
 3,454 
 408,066 
 50,162 
 461,682 
 440,004 
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
At the beginning of the year
 (3,200)
 (256,152)
 (40,232)
 (299,584)
 (254,431)
Charge for the year
(3)
 (44,802)
 - 
 (44,805)
 (45,153)
Disposals
 - 
 292 
 - 
 292 
 - 
At the end of the year
 (3,203)
 (300,662)
 (40,232)
 (344,097)
 (299,584)
Carrying value
As at 31 March 2024
 251 
 107,404 
 9,930 
 117,585 
 
As at 31 March 2023
 254 
 130,236 
 9,930 
 140,420

325
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Motor vehicles
Freehold
Returnable
containers
Others
Vessels
Capital
work in
progress
Total
2024
Total
2023
 977,251 
 976,743 
 7,316,158 
 1,009,122 
 229,110,980 
 400,294,155 
 158,022,367 
 288,550 
 30,259 
 999,499 
 116,539 
 30,277,403 
 35,772,762 
 7,073,858 
 (42,827)
 (2,553)
 (311,974)
-
 (242,977)
 (1,254,561)
 (1,396,287)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 4,497,632 
 8,002,843 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (748,103)
 (1,057,956)
 1,065 
-
 7,629 
 - 
 (994,880)
 (377,028)
227,918,813
 (39,475)
 - 
 (43,742)
 - 
 (10,675,445)
 (13,356,821)
 1,730,517 
 1,184,564 
 1,004,449 
 7,967,570 
 1,125,661 
 247,475,081 
 424,828,036 
400,294,155
 (720,566)
 (693,528)
 (4,697,812)
 (490,969)
 - 
 (38,197,156)
 (33,674,763)
 (69,981)
 (68,368)
 (658,943)
 (106,025)
 - 
 (6,545,420)
 (6,280,610)
 41,968 
 2,553 
 277,684 
-
 - 
 883,630 
 1,020,605 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 748,103 
 1,057,956 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 21,140 
 105 
 29,928 
 - 
 33,536 
 - 
 - 
 1,250,201 
 (320,449)
 (718,651)
 (759,343)
 (5,045,535)
 (596,994)
 - 
 (41,839,502)
 (38,197,156)
 465,913 
 245,106 
 2,922,035 
 528,667 
 247,475,081 
 382,988,534 
 256,685 
 283,215 
 2,618,346 
 518,153 
 229,110,980 
362,096,999 
During the year 2023/2024 there was no depreciation capitalised as a 
part of the cost of other assets. 
22.3 	 Revaluation of land and buildings 
Accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions 
The Group uses the revaluation model of measurement of land and 
buildings. The Group engaged independent expert valuers to determine 
the fair value of its land and buildings. Fair value is determined by 
reference to market-based evidence of transaction prices for similar 
properties. Valuations are based on open market prices, adjusted for any 
difference in the nature, location or condition of the specific property. 
These valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances 
and for which sufficient data is available to measure fair value, 
maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the 
use of unobservable inputs. The most recent revaluation was carried out 
on 31 December 2023.
The changes in fair value are recognised in other comprehensive income 
and in the statement of equity. The valuer has used valuation techniques 
such as market values and discounted cash flow methods.

326 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
22. 	
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTD.)
22.3 	 Revaluation of land and buildings (Contd.)	
	
	
	
Details of Group’s land, building and other properties stated at valuation are indicated below;
Property
Name of the 
Chartered Valuation 
Surveyor
Method 
of 
valuation
Significant unobservable inputs
Estimated price 
per perch
Estimated price per 
square foot
Estimated 
discount 
rate
Correlation 
to fair 
value
Land and Building 
Asian Hotels & Properties PLC
P B Kalugalagedara
CMA
Rs. 18,000,000 - 
Rs. 21,000,000
Rs. 3,500 - Rs. 16,000
 - 
Positive
Beruwala Holiday Resorts (Pvt ) Ltd
-do-
CMA
Rs. 1,200,000 - 
Rs. 1,600,000
 Rs. 2,000 - Rs. 8,200 
 - 
Positive
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC
-do-
CMA
Rs. 275,000 -  
Rs. 310,000
Rs. 500 - Rs. 5,000
 - 
Positive
Ceylon Holiday Resorts Ltd
-do-
CMA
Rs. 250,000 -  
Rs. 1,400,000
 Rs. 2,000 - Rs. 4,000 
 - 
Positive
Hikkaduwa Holiday Resort (Pvt) Ltd 
-do-
CMA
Rs. 1,200,000 
 Rs. 1,750 - Rs. 3,600 
 - 
Positive
Kandy Walk Inn Ltd
S Fernando 
CMA
Rs. 15,000 -  
Rs. 1,500,000
 Rs. 1,500 - Rs. 9,500 
 - 
Positive
Keells Food Products PLC
P B Kalugalagedara
CMA
Rs. 70,000 -  
Rs. 725,000 
 Rs. 400 - Rs. 3,500 
 - 
Positive
Keells Realtors Ltd
-do-
CMA
Rs. 2,000,000 
 Rs. 500 - Rs. 1,500 
-
Positive
Mackinnons Keells Ltd
-do-
CMA
Rs. 11,000,000
Rs. 1,850
-
Positive
Tea Smallholder Factories PLC
K.T.D. Tissera
CMA
Rs. 5,000 -  
Rs. 43,750
Rs. 500 - Rs. 3,000
 - 
Positive
Trinco Holiday Resort (Pvt) Ltd
P B Kalugalagedara
CMA
Rs. 400,000 -  
Rs. 600,000
Rs. 1,000 - Rs. 8,750
 - 
Positive
Union Assurance PLC
-do-
CMA
Rs. 9,000,000 - 
Rs. 21,000,000
Rs. 17,000 - Rs. 22,000
-
Positive
Vauxhall Land Developments (Pvt) Ltd
-do-
CMA
Rs. 18,250,000
-
-
Positive
Buildings on leasehold land
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC
P B Kalugalagedara
CMA
-
Rs. 500 - Rs. 5,500
-
Positive
Ceylon Holiday Resorts Ltd
-do-
CMA
-
Rs. 9,300 - Rs. 17,500
 - 
Positive
Colombo Ice Company (Pvt) Ltd
-do-
CMA
-
Rs. 2,500 - Rs. 9,000 
-
Positive
Keells Food Products PLC
-do-
CMA
-
Rs. 150 - Rs. 10,000
 - 
Positive
Habarana Lodge Ltd.
S Fernando 
CMA
-
Rs. 1,000 - Rs. 12,000
 - 
Positive
Habarana Walk Inn Ltd
-do-
CMA
-
Rs. 3,200 - Rs. 9,500 
 - 
Positive
Hikkaduwa Holiday Resort (Pvt) Ltd
P B Kalugalagedara
CMA
-
Rs. 3,000 - Rs. 9,000
 - 
Positive
Jaykay Marketing Service (Pvt) Ltd
-do-
IA
-
Rs. 30 - Rs. 300
6%
Negative
John Keells Warehousing (Pvt) Ltd
K T D Tissera
DRC
-
Rs. 800 - Rs. 5,500
 - 
Positive
Rajawella Holdings Ltd
P B Kalugalagedara
CMA
-
Rs. 2000 - Rs. 9,500 
 - 
Positive
Trans Asia Hotels PLC
-do-
CMA
-
Rs. 475 - Rs. 10,000 
 - 
Positive
Yala Village (Pvt ) Ltd
-do-
CMA
-
Rs. 2,500 - Rs. 9,200
 - 
Positive
Effective date of valuation was 31 December 2023.

327
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Summary description of valuation methodologies;
Comparable market approach (CMA)
This method uses prices and other relevant information generated by 
market transactions involving identical or comparable assets or a group 
of assets.
Depreciated replacement cost (DRC)
The replacement cost method is used to value properties which do 
not generally exchange on the open market and for which comparable 
evidence therefore does not exist. The valuations are based on two 
components: the depreciated cost of the building element and the 
market value of the land. Current building costs and often the land price 
will be established by comparison.
Income approach (IA)
The income approach is used to value properties which are let to 
produce an income for the investor. Conventionally, investment value 
is a product of rent and yield. Each of these elements is derived using 
comparison techniques.
22.4	
The carrying amount of revalued land and buildings if they were carried at cost less depreciation and impairment, would be as follows; 
In Rs.'000s
As at 31 March
GROUP
2024
2023
Cost
49,572,663
48,164,587
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
(7,358,672)
(6,539,161)
Carrying value
42,213,991
41,625,426
Group land and buildings with a carrying value of Rs.3,884 Mn  
(2023 - Rs.4,090 Mn) have been pledged as security for term loans 
obtained, details of which are disclosed in Note 37.2.
Group property, plant and equipment with a cost of Rs.15,842 Mn  
(2023 - Rs.12,818 Mn) have been fully depreciated and continue to be in 
use by the Group. The cost of fully depreciated assets continued to be in 
used by the Company Rs.891 Mn (2023 - Rs.684 Mn).
The amount of borrowing costs capitalised during the year ended 31 
March 2024 was Rs.7.8 Bn (2023 - Rs.8.1 Bn) by the Group.	
23. 	
RIGHT OF USE ASSETS AND LEASE LIABILITIES
Accounting Policy
Right of use assets
The Group recognises right of use assets when the underlying asset 
is available for use. Right of use assets are measured at cost, less any 
accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, and adjusted for any 
measurement of lease liabilities. The cost of right of use assets includes 
the amount of lease liabilities recognised, initial direct costs incurred, 
and lease payments made at or before the commencement date less 
any lease incentives received. Unless the Group is reasonably certain to 
obtain ownership of the leased asset at the end of the lease term, the 
recognised right of use assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis 
over the shorter of its estimated useful life or the lease term. Right of use 
assets are subject to impairment.
Lease liabilities
At the commencement date of the lease, the Group recognises lease 
liabilities measured at the present value of lease payments to be 
made over the lease term. In calculating the present value of lease 
payments, the Group uses the incremental borrowing rate at the lease 
commencement date if the interest rate implicit in the lease is not 
readily determinable. After the commencement date, the amount 
of lease liabilities is increased to reflect the accretion of interest and 
reduced for the lease payments made. In addition, the carrying amount 
of lease liabilities is remeasured if there is a modification, a change in 
the lease term, a change in the in-substance fixed lease payments or a 
change in the assessment to purchase the underlying asset .
The Group uses 6 months AWPLR based plus margin when calculating 
the incremental borrowing rate which reflects the average rate of 
borrowings in the Group. Quarterly calculated incremental borrowing 
rates were used to discount new leases obtained during the year.
Short-term leases and leases of low-value assets
The Group applies the short-term lease recognition exemption to leases 
that have a lease term of 12 months or less from the commencement 
date. It also applies the lease of low-value assets recognition exemption 
to leases of office equipment that are considered of low value. Lease 
payments on short-term leases and leases of low-value assets are 
recognised as expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.

328 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
23. 	
RIGHT OF USE ASSETS AND LEASE LIABILITIES (CONTD.)
23.1	 Amounts recognised in the statement of financial position and income statement
Set out below, are the carrying amounts of the Group's right of use assets and the movements for the year ended 31 March 2024.
23.1.1 Right of use assets
In Rs.'000s
GROUP
COMPANY
Lease hold
properties
Motor 
Vehicles
Total
2024
Total
2023
 Lease hold
properties 
2024
 Lease hold
properties 
2023
At the beginning of the year
 54,166,815 
 18,131 
 54,184,946 
 53,481,574 
 - 
 - 
Additions
 2,276,514 
-
 2,276,514 
 1,446,168 
 123,573 
 - 
Disposals
 (349,289)
-
 (349,289)
 (57,921)
 - 
 - 
Amortisation expense
 (3,921,208)
 (10,535)
 (3,931,743)
 (4,151,230)
 (1,287)
 - 
Exchange differences
 (3,487,811)
 - 
 (3,487,811)
 3,466,355 
 - 
 - 
At the end of the year
 48,685,021 
 7,596 
 48,692,617 
 54,184,946 
 122,286 
 - 
23.1.2 Lease liabilities
Set out below are the carrying amounts of lease liabilities and the movements for the period ended 31 March 2024. 
In Rs.'000s
GROUP
COMPANY
2024
2023
2024
2023
At the beginning of the year
 34,311,142 
 33,526,448 
 - 
 - 
Additions
 2,259,563 
 1,446,167 
 116,643 
 - 
Transfers
 (52,430)
 (119,811)
 - 
 - 
Finance charge on lease liabilities
 2,012,793 
 1,836,690 
 1,193 
 - 
Disposals
 (399,188)
 (7,493)
 - 
 - 
Payments
 (4,501,907)
 (4,308,342)
 (1,736)
 - 
Exchange differences
 (1,665,399)
 1,937,483 
 - 
 - 
At the end of the year
 31,964,574 
 34,311,142 
 116,100 
 - 
Current
 3,884,003 
 2,258,653 
 6,961 
 - 
Non-current
 28,080,571 
 32,052,489 
 109,139 
 - 
Total lease liabilities as at 31 March
 31,964,574 
 34,311,142 
 116,100 
 - 
Following are the amounts recognised in income statement for the year ended 31 
March
Amortisation of right-of-use assets 
 3,931,743 
 4,151,230 
 1,287 
 - 
Interest expense on lease liabilities 
 2,012,793 
 1,836,690 
 1,193 
 - 
Total amount recognised in income statement
 5,944,536 
 5,987,920 
 2,480 
 - 
Expenses relating to short term leases and leases of low value assets amounting to Rs.874 Mn (2023 - Rs.573 Mn) has recognised in profit or loss.	

329
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
24. 	
INVESTMENT PROPERTIES
Accounting policy
Investment properties are measured initially at cost, including 
transaction costs. The carrying value of an investment properties 
includes the cost of replacing part of an existing investment properties, 
at the time that cost is incurred if the recognition criteria are met and 
excludes the costs of day to- day servicing of the investment properties. 
Subsequent to initial recognition, the investment properties are stated at 
fair values, which reflect market conditions at the reporting date.
Gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are included in the 
income statement in the year in which they arise. Fair values are 
revaluated at least every 3 years by an accredited external, independent 
valuer. The most recent revaluation was carried out on 31 December 
2023.
Investment properties are derecognised when disposed, or permanently 
withdrawn from use because no future economic benefits are expected. 
Any gains or losses on retirement or disposal are recognised in the 
income statement in the year of retirement or disposal.
Transfers are made to or from investment properties only when there 
is a change in use for a transfer from investment property to owner 
occupied property or inventory (WIP), the deemed cost for subsequent 
accounting is the fair value at the date of change in use. If owner 
occupied property becomes an investment property or inventory (WIP), 
the Group accounts for such property in accordance with the policy 
stated under property, plant and equipment up to the date of change 
in use. Where Group companies occupy a significant portion of the 
investment property of a subsidiary, such investment properties are 
treated as property, plant and equipment in the consolidated financial 
statements, and accounted for using accounting policy for property, 
plant and equipment.
In Rs.'000s
As at 31 March
GROUP
2024
2023
Carrying value 
 
At the beginning of the year
 33,029,385 
30,607,550
Additions
 17,349 
-
Transfers
 (1,339,102)
307,559
Net gain / (loss) from fair value remeasurement
 450,092 
878,538
Impairment
 (638,900)
-
Exchange differences
 - 
1,235,738
At the end of the year
 31,518,824 
33,029,385
Freehold properties
 30,423,964 
32,121,651
Leasehold properties
 1,094,860 
907,734
 31,518,824 
33,029,385
Following are the amounts recognised in income statement for the year ended 31 March
Rental income earned
 433,606 
 403,745 
Direct operating expenses generating rental income 
 154,476 
154,626
Direct operating expenses that did not generate rental income
 - 
-
Accounting judgments, estimates and assumptions 
Fair value of the investment property is ascertained by independent 
valuations carried out by Chartered valuation surveyors, who have 
recent experience in valuing properties in similar locations and category. 
Investment property is appraised in accordance with LKAS 40, SLFRS 13 
and the 8th edition of International Valuation Standards published by the 
International Valuation Standards Committee (IVSC) by the independent 
valuers. In determining the fair value, the current condition of the 
properties, future usability and associated re-development requirements 
have been considered. Also, the valuers have made reference to market 
evidence of transaction prices for similar properties, with appropriate 
adjustments for size and location. The appraised fair values are rounded 
within the range of values.
The changes in fair value are recognised in the Income Statement. The 
determined fair values of investment properties, using income approach, 
are most sensitive to the estimated yield as well as the long term 
occupancy rate.

330 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
24. 	
INVESTMENT PROPERTY (CONTD.)
Description of valuation techniques used and key inputs to valuation of investment properties: 
Property
Name of the 
Chartered 
Valuation Surveyor
Method of 
valuation*
Significant unobservable inputs
Estimated price per 
perch
Estimated price 
per square foot
Estimated 
discount 
rate
Correlation 
to fair value
Freehold property
Ahungalla Holiday Resort Ltd
S Fernando 
CMA
Rs. 275,000 -  
Rs. 500,000 
-
-
Positive 
Asian Hotels and Properties PLC
P B Kalugalagedara
IA
 - 
 - 
6%
Negative 
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC 
-do-
CMA
Rs. 1,900,000
 Rs. 2,000
 - 
Positive 
Facets (Pvt) Ltd
S Fernando 
CMA
Rs. 550,000
 - 
 - 
Positive 
Glennie Properties (Pvt) Ltd
P B Kalugalagedara
CMA
Rs. 18,000,000
 - 
 - 
Positive 
John Keells Properties Ja-Ela (Pvt) Ltd
-do-
CMA
Rs. 1,400,000
Rs. 4,000
 - 
Positive 
John Keells PLC
-do-
CMA
Rs. 850,000
 - 
 - 
Positive 
J K Thudella Properties (Pvt) Ltd
P P T Mohideen
CMA
Rs. 375,000
 - 
 - 
Positive 
Keells Realtors Ltd
P B Kalugalagedara
CMA
Rs. 750,000 -  
Rs. 2,750,000 
 Rs. 500 
 - 
Positive 
Resort Hotels Ltd
S Fernando 
CMA
Rs. 130,000 -  
Rs. 300,000 
- 
- 
Positive 
Trinco Walk Inn Ltd
-do-
CMA
Rs. 160,000 -  
Rs. 400,000 
 - 
 - 
Positive 
Waterfront Properties (Pvt) Ltd
P B Kalugalagedara
IA
-
 - 
6%
Negative 
Whittall Boustead (Pvt) Ltd
-do-
CMA
Rs. 2,800,000
Rs. 500 - Rs. 2,200  - 
Positive 
Wirawila Walk Inn Ltd
S Fernando 
CMA
Rs. 26,250
 - 
 - 
Positive 
Vauxhall Land Developments (Pvt) 
Ltd
P B Kalugalagedara
CMA
Rs. 18,250,000
 - 
 - 
Positive 
Leasehold property
Jaykay Marketing Service (Pvt) Ltd
P B Kalugalagedara
IA
Rs. 270,000 -  
Rs. 400,000
-
6%
Negative 
Tea Smallholder Factories PLC
-do-
CMA
Rs. 2,500,000 -  
Rs. 3,500,000
Rs. 500 - Rs. 3,000  - 
Positive 
* Summary description of valuation methodologies can be found in property, plant and equipment Note 22.3. 
The level at which fair value measurement is categorised can be found in fair value measurement and related fair value disclosures Note 12.1.
Effective date of valuation was 31 December 2023.

331
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
25.	
INTANGIBLE ASSETS 
Accounting policy 
Basis of recognition
An Intangible asset is recognised if it is probable that future economic 
benefits associated with the asset will flow to the Group and the cost of 
the asset can be reliably measured.
Basis of measurement 
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition 
at cost. The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination 
is the fair value as at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less any 
accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Internally generated intangible assets, excluding capitalised development 
costs, are not capitalised, and expenditure is charged to income statement 
in the year in which the expenditure is incurred.
Useful economic lives, amortisation and impairment
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed as either finite or 
indefinite lives. Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over the 
useful economic life and assessed for impairment whenever there is an 
indication that the intangible asset may be impaired.
The amortisation period and the amortisation method for an intangible 
asset with a finite useful life is reviewed at least at each financial year-
end and treated as accounting estimates. The amortisation is calculated 
by using straight-line method on the cost of all the intangible assets 
and the amortisation expense on intangible assets with finite lives is 
recognised in the income statement.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives and goodwill are not 
amortised but tested for impairment annually, or more frequently 
when an indication of impairment exists either individually or at the 
cash-generating unit level. The useful life of an intangible asset with an 
indefinite life is reviewed annually to determine whether indefinite life 
assessment continues to be supportable. If not, the change in the useful 
life assessment from indefinite to finite is made on a prospective basis.
Research and development costs
Research costs are expensed as incurred. An intangible asset arising from 
development expenditure on an individual project is recognised as an 
intangible asset, when the Group can demonstrate:
•	 The technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that it 
will be available for use or sale,
•	 Its intention to complete and its ability to use or sell the assets,
•	 how the assets will generate future economic benefits,
•	 the availability of resources to complete the assets,
•	 the ability to measure reliably the expenditure during development.
Following initial recognition of the development expenditure of an asset, 
the cost model is applied requiring the asset to be carried at cost less 
any accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Amortisation of the asset begins when development is complete and 
the asset is available for use. It is amortised over the period of expected 
future benefit from the use or expected future sales from the related 
project. During the period of development, the asset is tested for 
impairment annually. 
Contractual relationships
Contractual relationships are rights which provide access to distribution 
networks. Contractual relationships are initially recognised at cost and 
amortised over the contract period.
A summary of the policies applied to the Group’s intangible assets is as 
follows.
Intangible assets
Useful life
Type
Impairment testing
Purchased software
5 - 10
Acquired
When indicators of impairment exists. The amortisation method is reviewed at each 
financial year end.
Software license
5
Contractual 
relationships
5 - 10
Developed software
5 - 10
Internally generated
Annually for assets not yet in use and more frequently when indicators of 
impairment arise. For assets in use, when indicators of impairment arise. The 
amortisation method is reviewed at each financial year end.
Gains or losses arising from derecognition of an intangible asset are measured as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying 
amount of the asset and are recognised in the income statement when the asset is derecognised.

332 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
25.	
INTANGIBLE ASSETS (CONTD.)
25.1	  Intangible assets
In Rs.’000s
Software
As at 31 March
Developed 
Purchased
Licenses
WIP
Cost/carrying value
At the beginning of the year
 3,767,165 
 1,261,896 
 2,219,559 
 23,951 
Additions
 923,302 
 122,644 
 225,976 
 15,823 
Transfers
 38,503 
 - 
 - 
 (38,503)
Disposal
 - 
 (141)
 - 
 - 
At the end of the year
 4,728,970 
 1,384,399 
 2,445,535 
 1,271 
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
At the beginning of the year
 (977,212)
 (635,617)
 (1,315,483)
 - 
Amortisation 
 (412,222)
 (150,353)
 (245,012)
 - 
Transfers
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Disposal
 - 
 60 
 - 
 - 
At the end of the year
 (1,389,434)
 (785,910)
 (1,560,495)
 - 
Carrying value
As at 31 March 2024
 3,339,536 
 598,489 
 885,040 
 1,271 
As at 31 March 2023
 2,789,953 
 626,279 
 904,076 
 23,951 
Group Intangible assets with a cost of Rs.263 Mn (2023- Rs.223 Mn) have been fully amortised and continue to be in use by the Group.
25.2	 Intangible assets - Goodwill
Goodwill acquired through business combinations have been allocated to following cash generating units (CGU's) for impairment testing.
In Rs.'000s
As at 31 March
GROUP
Net carrying value
2024
2023
Cinnamon Hotels and Resorts
 166,248 
 166,248 
Consumer Foods
 535,000 
 299,293 
Financial Services
 265,360 
 265,360
 966,608 
 730,901 
The recoverable amounts of all CGUs have been determined based on the fair value, less cost to sell or the value in use (VIU) calculation.

333
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
GROUP
COMPANY
Software Licenses
Goodwill
Other
2024
Total
2023
Total
2024
Total
2023
Total
 730,901 
 1,257,767 
 9,261,239 
 8,018,620 
 681,806 
 681,806 
 235,707 
 - 
 1,523,452 
 1,295,790 
 - 
-
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (42,176)
 - 
-
 - 
 - 
 (141)
 (10,995)
 - 
-
 966,608 
 1,257,767 
 10,784,550 
 9,261,239 
 681,806 
 681,806 
 - 
 (540,161)
 (3,468,473)
 (2,619,282)
 (618,994)
 (587,443)
 - 
 (179,425)
 (987,012)
 (852,249)
 (28,034)
 (31,551)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2,820 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 60 
 238 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (719,586)
 (4,455,425)
 (3,468,473)
 (647,028)
 (618,994)
 966,608 
 538,181 
 6,329,125 
 34,778 
 730,901 
 717,606 
 5,792,766 
 62,812 
Accounting judgments, estimates and assumptions 
Impairment of goodwill
Impairment exists when the carrying value of an asset or cash 
generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher 
of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use (VIU). The fair value 
less costs to sell calculation is based on available data from an active 
market, in an arm’s length transaction, of similar assets or observable 
market prices less incremental costs for disposing of the asset. The value 
in use calculation is based on a discounted cash flow model. The cash 
flows are derived from the budget for the next five years and do not 
include restructuring activities that the Group is not yet committed to or 
significant future investments that will enhance the asset’s performance 
of the cash generating unit being tested. The recoverable amount is 
most sensitive to the discount rate used for the discounted cash flow 
model as well as the expected future cash inflows and the growth rate 
used for extrapolation purposes. 
The key assumptions used to determine the recoverable amount for the 
different cash generating units, are as follows; 
Gross margins
The basis used to determine the value assigned to the budgeted 
gross margins is the gross margins achieved in the year preceding the 
budgeted year adjusted for projected market conditions.
Discount rates
This discount rate used is the risk free rate, adjusted by the addition of an 
appropriate risk premium, is 15%.
Inflation
The basis used to determine the value assigned to the budgeted cost 
inflation, is the inflation rate, based on projected economic conditions.
Volume growth
Volume growth has been budgeted on a reasonable and realistic basis 
by taking into account the industry growth rates of one to four years 
immediately subsequent to the budgeted year. Cash flows beyond the 
five year period are extrapolated using 0% growth rate.

334 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
26.	
INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES 
Accounting policy 
Investment in subsidiaries is initially recognised at cost in the financial statements of the Company. Any transaction cost relating to acquisition of 
investment in subsidiaries is immediately recognised in the income statement. After the initial recognition, Investments in subsidiaries are carried at 
cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
26.1 	 Carrying value
In Rs.'000s
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2024
2023
Quoted
26.2
 20,361,157 
 20,299,498 
Unquoted
26.3
 197,544,710 
 177,775,113 
 217,905,867
 198,074,611
26.2 	 Group quoted investments
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
Number of
shares
Effective
 holding %
Number of
shares
Effective
 holding %
2024
In Rs.’000s
2023
In Rs.’000s
Cost
Asian Hotels and Properties PLC
 347,824,190 
78.56%
 347,824,190 
78.56%
 5,379,784 
 5,377,344 
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC
 773,245,440 
81.36%
 671,558,120 
70.66%
 1,744,507 
 1,709,632 
John Keells Hotels PLC
 1,169,598,478 
80.32%
 1,169,598,478 
80.32%
 7,102,140 
 7,102,140 
John Keells PLC
 52,834,784 
86.90%
 52,834,784 
86.90%
 495,396 
 491,354 
Keells Food Products PLC
 22,937,250 
88.63%
 20,364,054 
79.86%
 1,244,012 
 1,241,989 
Tea Smallholder Factories PLC
 11,286,000 
37.62%
 11,286,000 
37.62%
 66,809 
 66,809 
Trans Asia Hotels PLC
 184,107,284 
82.74%
 97,284,256 
48.64%
 1,621,485 
 1,619,225 
Union Assurance PLC
 530,357,150 
90.00%
 530,357,150 
90.00%
 2,707,024 
 2,691,005 
 20,361,157 
 20,299,498 
In Rs.'000s
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2024
2023
2024
2023
Market Value
Asian Hotels and Properties PLC
 21,217,276 
 15,304,264 
 21,217,276 
 15,304,264 
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC
 41,677,929 
 30,929,818 
 36,196,983 
 26,862,325 
John Keells Hotels PLC
 21,754,532 
 22,105,411 
 21,754,532 
 22,105,411 
John Keells PLC
 3,423,694 
 3,635,033 
 3,423,694 
 3,635,033 
Keells Food Products PLC
 3,371,776 
 3,669,960 
 2,993,516 
 3,258,249 
Tea Smallholder Factories PLC
 468,369 
 496,584 
 468,369 
 496,584 
Trans Asia Hotels PLC
 7,842,970 
 8,321,649 
 4,144,309 
 4,397,248 
Union Assurance PLC
 24,820,715 
 17,501,786 
 24,820,715 
 17,501,786 
 124,577,261 
 101,964,505 
 115,019,394 
 93,560,900 

335
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
26.3 	 Group unquoted investments
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2024
2024
2023
Cost
In Rs.’000s
Number of
shares
Effective
 holding %
Number of
shares
Effective
 holding %
Cost
In Rs.’000s
Ahungalla Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
 13,633,282 
 80.32 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Beruwala Holiday Resorts (Pvt ) Ltd
 219,725,653 
 79.78 
 - 
 - 
 3,586 
 3,586 
British Overseas (Pvt) Ltd
 61 
 61.00 
 61 
 61.00 
 - 
 - 
Ceylon Holidays Resorts Ltd
 18,260,784 
 79.60 
 - 
 - 
 3,893 
 3,893 
Cinnamon Hotel Management Ltd
 1,000,000 
 100.00 
 1,000,000 
 100.00 
 547,329 
 500,486 
Cinnamon Hotel Management International (Pvt) Ltd
 50,000 
 100.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Cinnamon Holiday (Pvt) Ltd
 20,000 
 80.32 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Facets (Pvt) Ltd
 15,000 
 100.00 
 15,000 
 100.00 
 - 
 - 
Fantasea World Investments (Pte) Ltd
 7,299 
 80.32 
 - 
 - 
 5,245 
 4,908 
Glennie Properties (Pvt) Ltd
 16,386,140 
 100.00 
 16,386,142 
 100.00 
 163,861 
 163,861 
Habarana Lodge Ltd
 12,981,548 
 78.99 
 - 
 - 
 4,794 
 4,312 
Habarana Walk Inn Ltd
 4,321,381 
 79.34 
 - 
 - 
 2,719 
 2,719 
Hikkaduwa Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
 107,596,700 
 79.60 
 - 
 - 
 3,428 
 2,874 
Infomate (Pvt) Ltd
 2,000,000 
 100.00 
 2,000,000 
 100.00 
 46,720 
 43,773 
International Tourists and Hoteliers Ltd
 38,490,901 
 79.78 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
J K Land (Pvt) Ltd
 2,302,760,246 
 100.00  2,302,760,246 
 100.00 
 24,964,639 
 24,964,639 
J K Packaging (Pvt) Ltd
 1,450,000 
 100.00 
 1,450,000 
 100.00 
 - 
 - 
J K Thudella Properties (Pvt) Ltd 
 45,346,760 
 100.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
JayKay Marketing Services (Pvt) Ltd
 202,239,025 
 81.36 
 - 
 - 
 298,009 
 258,114 
John Keells BPO Holdings (Pvt) Ltd
 19,000,000 
 100.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
John Keells BPO International (Pvt) Ltd
 1,500,000,000 
 100.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
John Keells BPO Solutions Lanka (Pvt) Ltd
 32,843,578 
 100.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
John Keells Information Technology (Pvt) Ltd 
9,650,000
 100.00 
 9,650,000 
 100.00 
 126,362 
 124,665 
John Keells Foods India (Pvt) Ltd
 8,999,990 
 88.63 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
John Keells International (Pvt) Ltd
 199,160,000 
 100.00 
 199,160,000 
 100.00 
 680,895 
 676,747 
John Keells Logistics (Pvt) Ltd
 19,999,998 
 100.00 
 19,999,998 
 100.00 
 233,839 
 232,048 
John Keells Maldivian Resorts (Pte) Ltd
 49,044,238 
 80.32 
 - 
 - 
 18,587 
 18,299 
John Keells Office Automation (Pvt) Ltd
 500,000 
 100.00 
 500,000 
 100.00 
 79,426 
 74,813 
John Keells Properties (Pvt) Ltd
 101,804 
 100.00 
 101,804 
 100.00 
 - 
 - 
John Keells Properties Ja-Ela (Pvt) Ltd
 95,436,000 
 100.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
John Keells Residential Properties (Pvt) Ltd
 2,081,698 
 100.00 
 2,681,698 
 100.00 
 20,817 
 20,817 
John Keells Singapore (Pte) Ltd
 160,000 
 80.00 
 160,000 
 80.00 
 4,209 
 4,209 
John Keells Stock Brokers (Pvt) Ltd
 1,500,000 
 90.04 
 360,000 
 24.00 
 98,245 
 90,902 
John Keells Teas (Pvt) Ltd
 12,000 
 100.00 
 12,000 
 100.00 
 30,897 
 26,599 
John Keells Warehousing (Pvt) Ltd
 12,000,000 
 86.90 
 - 
 - 
 5,039 
 5,039 
Kandy Walk Inn Ltd
 6,165,484 
 79.03 
 - 
 - 
 4,094 
 4,094 
Keells Consultants (Pvt) Ltd
 928 
 100.00 
 928 
 100.00 
 2,070 
 2,070 
Keells Realtors Ltd
 7,500,000 
 95.81 
 5,100,000 
 40.00 
 119,124 
 119,124 
Keells Shipping (Pvt) Ltd
 50,000 
 100.00 
 50,000 
 100.00 
 - 
 - 
Lanka Marine Services (Pvt) Ltd
 34,805,470 
 99.44 
 34,805,470 
 99.44 
 1,426,805 
 1,418,844 
Logipark International (Pvt) Ltd
 60,407,698 
 81.36 
 - 
 - 
 894 
 284 
Mack Air (Pvt) Ltd
 89,260 
 100.00 
 89,260 
 100.00 
 50,174 
 40,405 
Mack Air Services Maldives (Pvt) Ltd
 4,900 
 49.00 
 4,700 
 47.00 
 2,022 
 2,022
Mack International Freight (Pvt) Ltd
 13,000,000 
 100.00 
 13,000,000 
 100.00 
 3,547 
 3,015 
Mackinnon Keells Ltd
 31,966,951 
 100.00 
 31,966,951 
 100.00 
 670,166 
 670,166 
Mackinnon Mackenzie and Company (Shipping) Ltd
 139,092 
 100.00 
 139,092 
 100.00 
 65,844 
 65,844 

336 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2024
2024
2023
Cost
In Rs.’000s
Number of
shares
Effective
 holding %
Number of
shares
Effective
 holding %
Cost
In Rs.’000s
Mackinnon Mackenzie and Company of (Ceylon) Ltd
 1,244 
 100.00 
 1,244 
 100.00 
 29,122 
 29,122 
Mackinnons Travels (Pvt) Ltd
 499,996 
 100.00 
 499,996 
 100.00 
 31,736 
 31,853 
Mortlake (Pvt) Ltd
 43 
 100.00 
 43 
 100.00 
 20,000 
 20,000 
Nuwara Eliya Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
 33,123,682 
 80.32 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Rajawella Holdings Ltd
 13,063,936 
 49.85 
 11,573,339 
 45.18 
 801,707 
 801,707 
Rajawella Hotels Company Ltd
 3,342,035 
 80.32 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Resort Hotels Ltd
 639,421 
 79.89 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
The Colombo Ice Company (Pvt) Ltd
 169,999,999 
 81.36 
 - 
 - 
 1,786 
 1,365 
Tranquility (Pte) Ltd
 637,499 
 80.32 
 - 
 - 
 6,300 
 5,879 
Trans-Ware Logistics (Pvt) Ltd
 5,539,929 
 100.00 
 5,539,929 
 100.00 
 58,983 
 58,983 
Travel Club (Pte) Ltd
 29,059 
 80.32 
 - 
 - 
 3,693 
 3,693 
Trinco Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
 8,120,005 
 80.32 
 - 
 - 
 3,628 
 3,628 
Trinco Walk Inn Ltd
 3,000,007 
 80.32 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Vauxhall Land Developments (Pvt) Ltd
 2,171,655,391 
 100.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Walkers Tours Ltd
 3,737,634 
 98.51 
 3,737,634 
 98.05 
 206,357 
 200,041 
Waterfront Properties (Pvt) Ltd
14,383,027,448
 99.27 13,652,103,021
 95.75 
 132,758,242 
132,745,038
Waterfront Properties (Pvt) Ltd - Preference shares
2,806,022,014
 - 
2,806,022,014
 - 
 31,933,105 
12,348,275
Whittall Boustead (Pvt) Ltd
 5,341,105 
 100.00 
 5,341,105 
 100.00 
 1,716,841 
 1,689,049 
Whittall Boustead (Travel) Ltd
 22,452,271 
 100.00 
 22,452,271 
 100.00 
 283,179 
 280,558 
Wirawila Walk Inn Ltd
 2,028,078 
 80.32 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd
 28,268,000 
 75.33 
 - 
 - 
 2,752 
 2,752 
Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd- Non voting preference shares
 10,000,000 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 197,544,710 
 177,775,113 
26.	
INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONTD.)
26.3 	 Group unquoted investments (Contd.)

337
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
27. 	
INVESTMENT IN EQUITY ACCOUNTED INVESTEES 
Accounting policy 
An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence. 
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and 
operating policy decisions of the investee, but is not control or joint 
control over those policies.
Associate companies incorporated in Sri Lanka of the Group which have 
been accounted for under the equity method of accounting are:
	
Capitol Hotel Holdings Ltd
	
Colombo West International Terminal (Pvt) Ltd
	
Fairfirst Insurance Ltd
	 	 Indra Hotels and Resorts Kandy (Pvt) Ltd
	
Maersk Lanka (Pvt) Ltd
	
Nations Trust Bank PLC
	
Saffron Aviation (Pvt) Ltd
	
South Asia Gateway Terminals (Pvt) Ltd
A joint venture is a type of joint arrangement whereby the parties that 
have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the 
joint venture. Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control 
of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant 
activities require unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
Joint ventures incorporated in Sri Lanka entered into by the Group, 
which have been accounted for using the equity method, are:
	
Braybrooke Residential Properties (Pvt) Ltd 
	
DHL Keells (Pvt) Ltd
	
Inchcape Mackinnon Mackenzie Shipping (Pvt) Ltd
	
John Keells CG Auto (Pvt) Ltd 
	
Sentinel Reality (Pvt) Ltd
The considerations made in determining significant influence or 
joint control are similar to those necessary to determine control over 
subsidiaries.
Nature of the entity’s relationship, principal place of business and the 
country of incorporation is disclosed in group directory.
The Group’s investments in its associate and joint venture are accounted 
for using the equity method. Under the equity method, the investment 
in an associate or a joint venture is initially recognised at cost. The 
carrying amount of the investment is adjusted to recognise changes in 
the Group’s share of net assets of the associate or joint venture since the 
acquisition date. Goodwill relating to the associate or joint venture is 
included in the carrying amount of the investment and is not tested for 
impairment individually.
The income statement reflects the Group’s share of the results of 
operations of the associate or joint venture. Any change in OCI of those 
investees is presented as part of the Group’s OCI. In addition, when there 
has been a change recognised directly in the equity of the associate 
or joint venture, the Group recognises its share of any changes, when 
applicable, in the statement of changes in equity.
Unrealised gains and losses resulting from transactions between the 
Group and the associate or joint venture are eliminated to the extent of 
the interest in the associate or joint venture.
The aggregate of the Group’s share of profit or loss of an associate 
and a joint venture is shown on the face of the income statement 
outside operating profit and represents profit or loss after tax and non-
controlling interests in the subsidiaries of the associate or joint venture.
After application of the equity method, the Group determines whether 
it is necessary to recognise an impairment loss on its investment 
in its associate or joint venture. At each reporting date, the Group 
determines whether there is objective evidence that the investment in 
the associate or joint venture is impaired. If there is such evidence, the 
Group calculates the amount of impairment as the difference between 
the recoverable amount of the associate or joint venture and its 
carrying value, and then recognises the loss as ‘Share of results of equity 
accounted investees’ in the Income Statement.
Upon loss of significant influence over the associate or joint control 
over the joint venture, the Group measures and recognises any retained 
investment at its fair value. Any difference between the carrying amount 
of the associate or joint venture upon loss of significant influence or joint 
control and the fair value of the retained investment and proceeds from 
disposal is recognised in income statement.
The accounting policies of associate companies and joint ventures 
conform to those used for similar transactions of the Group. Accounting 
policies that are specific to the business of associate companies are 
discussed below.
Equity method of accounting has been applied for associates and joint 
ventures using their corresponding/matching 12 months financial 
period. In the case of associates, where the reporting dates are different 
to Group reporting dates, adjustments are made for any significant 
transactions or events up to 31 March.

338 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
27. 	
INVESTMENT IN EQUITY ACCOUNTED INVESTEES (CONTD.)
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
Number
of shares
Effective 
Holding 
%
2024
In Rs.
‘000s
2023
In Rs.
‘000s
Number 
of shares
Effective 
Holding 
%
2024
In Rs.
‘000s
2023
In Rs.
‘000s
27.1 	 Investments in joint ventures
Braybrooke Residential Properties (Pvt) Ltd
 102 
 50.00 
 1,804,500 
 1,804,500 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
DHL Keells (Pvt) Ltd
 1,000,000 
 50.00 
 10,000 
 10,000 
 1,000,000 
 50.00 
 10,000 
 10,000 
Inchcape Mackinnon Mackenzie Shipping 
(Pvt) Ltd
 164,520 
 60.00 
 16,452 
 16,452 
 164,520 
 60.00 
 16,452 
 16,452 
Sentinel Reality (Pvt) Ltd
 7,054,938 
 40.16 
 66,668 
 65,768 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
27.2	 Investments in associates
Quoted
	 Nations Trust Bank PLC- Voting shares
 83,139,277 
 29.49 
 2,388,956 
 2,215,746 
55,611,559
 19.72 
 1,658,080 
 1,542,220 
	 Nations Trust Bank PLC- Non voting shares
23,049,754
 52.10 
 1,948,738 
 1,900,681 
18,283,973
 41.33 
 1,435,705 
 1,397,585 
Unquoted
	 Capitol Hotel Holdings (Pvt) Ltd
 3,249,232 
 19.47 
 325,483 
 325,483 
 3,254,832 
 19.47 
 325,483 
 325,483 
	 Colombo West International Terminal 
(Pvt) Ltd
 107,488,547 
 34.00  10,748,855 
 5,579,243  107,488,547 
 34.00  10,748,855 
 5,579,243 
	 Fairfirst Insurance Ltd
 68,902,870 
 19.80 
 689,718 
 689,718 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
	 Indra Hotels and Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
 125,170,025 
 32.13 
 1,137,570 
 670,742 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
	 Maersk Lanka (Pvt) Ltd
 30,000 
 30.00 
 150 
 150 
 30,000 
 30.00 
 150 
 150 
	 Saffron Aviation (Pvt) Ltd
 24,887,160 
 40.00 
 248,872 
 248,872 
24,887,160 
 40.00 
 - 
 - 
	 Saffron Aviation (Pvt) Ltd - Preference 
shares
 135,530,835 
 - 
 506,247 
 506,247  135,530,835 
 - 
 - 
 - 
	 South Asia Gateway Terminals (Pvt) Ltd
 159,826,750 
 42.19 
 7,346,367 
 7,346,367  159,826,750 
 42.19 
 7,346,367 
 7,346,367 
Cumulative profit accruing to the Group 
net of dividend
 10,307,388 
 6,088,033 
Share of net assets of equity accounted 
investees
 10,605,240  11,018,144 
 48,151,204
 38,486,146
 21,541,092  16,217,500 
Group's shareholding in Nations Trust Bank PLC (NTB)
The Director of Bank Supervision of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL) 
informed John Keells Holdings PLC, in terms of a decision taken by the 
Monetary Board of the CBSL, the Group has been granted further time 
till 31 December 2021 to reduce its shareholding in the voting shares 
of the NTB to 20 percent. Subsequent to that, the Group is required 
to reduce its shareholding in the NTB to 15 percent on or before 31 
December 2022. The Monetary Board has also required NTB to limit 
the voting rights of the Group to 10 percent with effect from 31 March 
2018. NTB will continue to be an associate company of the Group. As at 
31 March 2024, the Group has an economic interest of 32.57 percent in 
NTB. The Group requested for an extension by letter dated 15 November 
2021, and a response is awaited. 
In Rs.'000s
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2024
2023
2024
2023
Market Value
Quoted shares of Nations Trust Bank PLC
	 Voting shares
 8,937,472 
5,213,004
 5,978,243 
3,486,959
	 Non voting shares
 2,385,650 
 1,283,636 
 1,892,391 
 1,018,231 
 11,323,122 
6,496,640
 7,870,634 
4,505,190

339
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
27.3 	 SUMMARISED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF EQUITY ACCOUNTED INVESTEES
In Rs.’000s
South Asia Gateway
 Terminals (Pvt) Ltd
 Other associates
 Joint ventures
 Total
As at/year ended 31 March
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
Group share of;
Revenue
 12,663,859 
 14,382,232 
 16,390,797 
 13,363,535 
 7,282,133 
 7,092,226 
 36,336,789 
 34,837,993 
Operating expenses including 
cost of sales
 (6,893,824)
 (6,712,293)
 (8,980,371)
 (8,369,466)
 (6,169,415)
 (6,742,137)  (22,043,610)  (21,823,896)
Net finance income
 63,934 
 93,393 
 61,181 
 282,176 
 (801,326)
 (625,147)
 (676,211)
 (249,578)
Tax expense
 (551,101)
 (3,092,315)
 (2,695,359)
 (1,817,599)
 (241,494)
 (281,062)
 (3,487,954)
 (5,190,976)
Share of results of equity 
accounted investees
 5,282,868 
 4,671,017 
 4,776,248 
 3,458,646 
 69,898 
 (556,120)
 10,129,014 
 7,573,543 
Other comprehensive income
 (1,087,942)
 913,548 
 674,844 
 748,850 
 195 
 (21,415)
 (412,903)
 1,640,983 
Total Comprehensive Income
 4,194,926 
 5,584,565 
 5,451,092 
 4,207,496 
 70,093 
 (577,535)
 9,716,111 
 9,214,526 
Group share of;
Total assets
 13,636,693 
 14,954,279 
 205,697,451 
 168,098,266 
 15,577,813 
 15,468,925  234,911,957  198,521,470 
Total liabilities
 (3,123,833)
 (4,616,383)  (170,766,467)  (143,023,128)
 (13,049,612)  (12,574,972)  (186,939,912)  (160,214,483)
Net assets
 10,512,860 
 10,337,896 
 34,930,984 
 25,075,138 
 2,528,201 
 2,893,953 
 47,972,045 
 38,306,987 
Goodwill
 - 
 - 
 165,899 
 165,899 
 13,260 
 13,260 
 179,159 
 179,159 
 10,512,860 
 10,337,896 
 35,096,883 
 25,241,037 
 2,541,461 
 2,907,213 
 48,151,204 
 38,486,146 
Capital commitments
 - 
-
532,853
-
562,357
3,447,202
1,095,209
3,447,202
Other commitments and 
Guarantees
 - 
-
120,716,850
82,700,599
 - 
-
120,716,850
82,700,599
Dividend received 
 4,019,962 
 5,582,716 
 1,449,008 
711,294
 440,000 
110,000
 5,908,970 
6,404,010
The share of results of equity accounted investees in the Income 
Statement and the Statement of Other Comprehensive Income are 
shown net of all related taxes. 
The Group and the Company have neither contingent liabilities nor 
capital and other commitments towards its associates and joint ventures.
Material accounting policies that are specific to the business of 
equity accounted investees
Nations Trust Bank PLC (Bank)
Recognition of Income 
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the 
economic benefits will flow to the Bank and the revenue can be reliably 
measured. The specific recognition criteria must for recognition of 
income is explained below.
Interest income
The Bank calculates interest income on financial assets, other than those 
considered credit-impaired, by applying the EIR to the gross carrying 
amount of the financial asset. The Bank ceases the recognition of interest 
income on assets when it is probable that the economic benefits 
associated will not continue to flow to the Bank. Interest income on all 
trading assets and financial assets mandatorily required to be measured 
at FVPL is also recognised using the contractual interest rate in interest 
income.
Net fee and commission income
The Bank earns fee and commission income from a diverse range of 
services it provides to its customers. Fee income can be divided in to the 
following three categories:
•	 Fee and commission income from services where performance 
obligations are satisfied over time include asset management, custody 
and other management and advisory services, where the customer 
simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided by the 
Bank’s performance as the Bank performs. 
•	 Fee and commission income from providing services where 
performance obligations are satisfied at a point in time are recognised 
once control of the services is transferred to the customer. This is 
typically on completion of the underlying transaction or service or, for 
fees or components of fees that are linked to a certain performance, 
after fulfilling the corresponding performance criteria. These include 
fees and commissions arising from negotiating or participating 
in the negotiation of a transaction for a third party, such as the 
arrangement/participation or negotiation of lending transactions or 
other securities. 

340 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
27. 	
INVESTMENT IN EQUITY ACCOUNTED INVESTEES (CONTD.)
•	 Fee income forming an integral part of the corresponding financial 
instrument fees that the Bank considers to be an integral part of the 
corresponding financial instruments include: loan origination fees, 
loan commitment fees for loans that are likely to be drawn down and 
other credit related fees. The recognition of these fees (together with 
any incremental costs) form an integral part of the corresponding 
financial instruments and are recognised as interest income through 
an adjustment to the EIR.
Net gain/ (loss) from trading
Net gains/(losses) from trading includes all realised and unrealised 
foreign exchange transactions and unrealised fair value changes on fixed 
income securities.
Dividend Income
Dividend income is recognised when the Bank’s right to receive the 
payment is established, which is generally when the shareholders 
approve the dividend.
Rental Income
Rental income is recognised on an accrual basis.
Other Income
Other income is recognised on an accrual basis
South Asia Gateway Terminals (Pvt) Ltd
Stevedoring revenue 
Stevedoring revenue is recognised at the berthing time of the vessel. 
Storage revenue
Storage revenue is recognised on the issue of delivery advice. 
South Asia Gateway Terminals (Pvt) Ltd uses United States Dollar (USD) 
as its functional currency.
Fairfirst Insurance Ltd
Revenue from insurance contracts
General insurance business-gross written premium
Gross written premiums (GWP) comprise the total premiums received/ 
receivable for the whole period of cover provided by contracts entered 
into during the accounting period. GWP is generally written upon 
inception of the policy. Rebates that form part of the premium rate, such 
as no-claim rebates, are deducted from the gross written premium.
Insurance contract liabilities - general
Non-life insurance contract liabilities include the outstanding claims 
provision (Reserve for gross outstanding and incurred but not reported, 
and incurred and not enough reported - IBNR/ IBNER) and the provision 
for unearned premium and the provision for premium deficiency.
28.	
NON CURRENT FINANCIAL ASSETS
In Rs.'000s
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
Note
2024
2023
2024
2023
Other quoted equity investments 
 133 
 210 
-
 - 
Other unquoted equity investments
 28.1 
 79,496 
 70,996 
 43,666 
 37,158 
Other non equity investments
 28.2 
 74,402,187 
 63,885,845 
 3,468,026 
 4,367,825 
 74,481,816 
 63,957,051 
 3,511,692 
 4,404,983 
28.1 	  Other unquoted equity investments 
In Rs.'000s
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
Number of
 shares
2024
2023
Number of
 shares
2024
2023
Asia Power (Pvt) Ltd
 147,317 
 13,611 
 18,353 
 147,317 
 13,611 
 18,353 
Other equity instruments
-
 65,885 
 52,643 
-
 30,055 
 18,805 
 79,496 
 70,996 
 43,666 
 37,158 

341
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
28.2 	  Other non equity investments 
In Rs.'000s
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
Note
2024
2023
2024
2023
Bank deposits
 - 
 569,138 
 - 
 - 
Debentures 
 7,458,459 
 9,185,289 
 - 
 - 
Government securities
 59,500,492 
 45,906,390 
 - 
 - 
Deposits with non bank institution
 230,495 
 234,637 
 - 
 - 
Loans to executives
28.3
 1,491,012 
 1,260,602 
 173,401 
 151,987 
Loans to life policyholders
28.4
 2,310,660 
 2,199,675 
 - 
 - 
Reinsurance receivable
 116,444 
-
-
-
Cash flow hedge 
 3,294,625 
 4,215,838 
 3,294,625 
 4,215,838 
Asset backed securities
 - 
 314,276 
-
 - 
 74,402,187
 63,885,845 
 3,468,026 
 4,367,825 
28.3 	 Loans to executives
In Rs.'000s
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2024
2023
2024
2023
At the beginning of the year
 1,616,868 
 1,375,524 
 172,753 
 89,737 
Loans granted / transfers
 1,436,215 
1,516,068
 87,533 
115,615
Recoveries
 (1,146,206)
(1,274,724)
 (66,083)
(32,599)
At the end of the year
 1,906,877
1,616,868
 194,203 
 172,753 
Receivable within one year
 415,865 
356,266
 20,802 
 20,766 
Receivable between one and five years
 1,491,012 
1,260,602
 173,401 
 151,987 
 1,906,877
1,616,868
 194,203 
 172,753 
28.4 	 Loans to life policyholders
In Rs.'000s
As at 31 March
GROUP
2024
2023
At the beginning of the year
 2,199,675 
 1,952,394 
Loans granted / transfers
1,250,329
1,107,677
Recoveries
(1,024,667)
(860,396)
At the end of the year
 2,425,337
2,199,675
Receivable within one year
 114,677 
-
Receivable between one and five years
 2,310,660 
2,199,675
 2,425,337
2,199,675

342 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
29.	
OTHER NON CURRENT ASSETS 
In Rs.'000s
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2024
2023
2024
2023
Pre paid cost
605,218
 602,238 
 95,240 
125,931
Work-in-progress 
 1,597,893 
-
 - 
 - 
Non current advances
 999,825 
969,066
 - 
 - 
 3,202,936
1,571,304
 95,240 
 125,931 
30. 	
INVENTORIES 
Accounting policy 
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price less estimated costs of completion 
and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale. 
The costs incurred in bringing inventories to its present location and condition, are accounted for as follows:
•	 Raw materials - On a weighted average basis
•	 Finished goods and work-in-progress - At the cost of direct materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of fixed production overheads 
based on normal operating capacity but excluding borrowing costs
•	 Other inventories – At actual cost
In Rs.'000s
As at 31 March
GROUP
2024
2023
Inventories 
Raw materials
 1,806,790
 1,912,716 
Finished goods
 13,442,283 
 12,835,764 
Produce stocks
 338,860 
 491,670 
Other stocks
 2,821,938 
 3,435,980 
Apartments and commercial space
 20,895,632 
 20,418,384 
 39,305,503 
 39,094,514 
During the year ended 31 March 2024, Rs. 152 Mn (2023 - Rs. 113 Mn) was recognised as an expense for inventories carried at net realisable value.  
This is recognised in other operating expenses. 
31. 	
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 
A receivable represents the Group’s right to an amount of consideration that is unconditional. Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and 
are generally on terms of 30 to 90 days. During the year, Rs.580 Mn (2023 - Rs.478 Mn) and Nil (2023 - Rs.0.6 Mn) for the Group and the Company 
respectively, was recognised as a provision for expected credit losses on trade receivables.
In Rs.'000s
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
Note
2024
2023
2024
2023
Trade and other receivables
 26,652,427
 19,940,932 
 439,880 
 186,967 
Reinsurance receivables
 313,050 
 590,215 
 - 
 - 
Premiums receivable
 881,186 
 620,665 
 - 
 - 
Loans to executives
28.3
 415,865
 356,266
 20,802
 20,766
Loans to life policyholders
28.4
114,677 
- 
 -
- 
28,377,205
 21,508,078 
 460,682 
 207,733 

343
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
32. 	
OTHER CURRENT ASSETS 
In Rs.'000s
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2024
2023
2024
2023
Prepayments and non cash receivables
 7,765,046
 12,533,737 
 3,130,466 
 1,669,156 
Tax recoverable
 2,539,714 
 2,036,715 
 14,141 
 26,479 
 10,304,760
 14,570,452 
 3,144,607 
 1,695,635 
33. 	
SHORT TERM INVESTMENTS 
Short-term investments are liquid assets or cash, which are being held for a short period of time, with the primary purpose of controlling the tactical 
asset allocation.
In Rs.'000s
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
Note
2024
2023
2024
2023
Quoted equities at market value
33.1
 4,966,042 
 3,593,064 
 - 
 - 
More than 3 months and less than 1 year
	 Debentures
 3,094,417 
 1,331,083 
 - 
 - 
	 Bank deposits
 41,278,855 
 28,228,305 
 41,000,808 
 27,525,841 
	 Government securities 
 3,719,389 
 3,803,586 
 - 
 - 
 53,058,703 
 36,956,038 
 41,000,808 
 27,525,841 
Less than 3 months
	 Debentures 
 658,324 
 322,606 
-
-
	 Bank deposits 
 21,628,870 
 41,225,620 
 16,804,656 
 29,947,412 
	 Government securities 
 4,684,745 
 3,717,558 
-
-
Reported in statement of cash flow
 26,971,939 
 45,265,784 
 16,804,656 
 29,947,412 
 80,030,642 
 82,221,822 
 57,805,464 
 57,473,253 

344 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
33. 	
SHORT TERM INVESTMENTS (CONTD.)
33.1 	 Quoted equities at market value - Group
Number of shares
Cost
Market value
As at 31st March
2024
2023
2024
In Rs. ’000s
2023
In Rs. ’000s
2024
In Rs. ’000s
2023
In Rs. ’000s
Access Engineering PLC
 10,418,795 
 504,769 
 183,226 
 8,105 
 235,465 
 7,168 
Agstar PLC
 - 
 12,726,104 
 - 
 224,993 
 - 
 142,532 
Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC
 63,958 
 1,105,257 
 2,997 
 51,929 
 4,234 
 66,205 
Aitken Spence PLC
 2,284,705 
 2,684,367 
 244,201 
 285,761 
 297,583 
 351,652 
Alumex PLC
 - 
 9,440,274 
 - 
 77,455 
 - 
 77,410 
Capital Alliance PLC
 - 
 1,126,043 
 - 
 34,067 
 - 
 36,709 
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC
 - 
 974,844 
 - 
 36,212 
 - 
 38,994 
Ceylon Tobacco Company PLC
 197,619 
 307,316 
 170,180 
 250,799 
 242,726 
 209,205 
Chevron Lubricants Lanka PLC
 1,593,824 
 4,000 
 154,032 
 374 
 171,735 
 366 
CIC Holdings PLC
 - 
 6,161,257 
 - 
 497,655 
 - 
 413,328 
Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC
 2,484,034 
 - 
 225,507 
 - 
 242,690 
 - 
Dialog Axiata PLC
 17,417,713 
 17,676,940 
 194,511 
 200,978 
 203,787 
 183,840 
Distilleries Company of Sri Lanka PLC
 3,903,677 
 2,623,258 
 99,474 
 54,557 
 105,009 
 51,416 
Hayleys Fabric PLC
 6,044,803 
 3,367,985 
 235,429 
 109,239 
 248,441 
 84,874 
Hatton National Bank PLC
 5,832,821 
 2,917,710 
 784,714 
 339,427 
 1,045,564 
 377,843 
Hela Apparel Holdings PLC 
 15,871,596 
 10,305,776 
 143,935 
 126,838 
 96,817 
 82,446 
Hemas Holdings PLC
 4,897,886 
 5,788,039 
 294,000 
 347,330 
 393,790 
 376,223 
Hsenid Business Solutions PLC
 - 
 3,365,679 
 - 
 56,207 
 - 
 49,812 
JAT Holdings PLC
 529,945 
 - 
 7,926 
 - 
 9,168 
 - 
John Keells Holdings PLC
 3,238,657 
 1,224,949 
 508,109 
 157,387 
 628,299 
 171,493 
John Keells Hotels PLC
 2,211,127 
 6,785,692 
 30,188 
 81,748 
 41,127 
 128,250 
Lanka IOC PLC
 - 
 1,842,280 
 - 
 350,722 
 - 
 315,951 
Lion Brewery (Ceylon) PLC
 - 
 3,149 
 - 
 1,968 
 - 
 2,251 
Pan Asia Banking Corporation PLC
 - 
 1,145,638 
 - 
 16,268 
 - 
 14,320 
Peoples Leasing and Finance PLC
 3,612,531 
 - 
 41,177 
 - 
 39,738 
 - 
Piramal Glass Ceylon PLC
 2,388,666 
 - 
 64,880 
 - 
 70,466 
 - 
Prime Lands Residencies PLC
 - 
 2,007,801 
 - 
 14,441 
 - 
 16,062 
Sampath Bank PLC
 3,000,220 
 80,298 
 207,649 
 4,493 
 240,018 
 4,216 
Singer Sri Lanka PLC
 - 
 867,838 
 - 
 9,039 
 - 
 13,018 
Sunshine Holdings PLC
 4,997,813 
 3,076,136 
 208,327 
 113,216 
 297,370 
 138,426 
Textured Jersey Lanka PLC
 1,126,043 
 7,239,468 
 42,640 
 260,647 
 42,339 
 231,663 
Tokyo Cement Company (Lanka) PLC
 6,406,203 
 147,826 
 311,075 
 5,219 
 309,676 
 7,391 
 4,154,177 
 3,717,074 
 4,966,042 
 3,593,064 
Above list mainly comprises of the investments made by Union Assurance PLC (UA) under the unit linked equity tracker fund.

345
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
34.1 	 Stated capital 
COMPANY 
As at 31 March
2024
2023
Number of
shares
In ‘000s
Value of
shares
In Rs.‘000s
Number of
shares
In ‘000s
Value of
shares
In Rs.‘000s
Fully paid ordinary shares
At the beginning of the year
 1,384,917 
 73,187,861 
 1,384,917 
 73,187,861 
Conversion of convertible debentures
 110,000 
16,753,283
 - 
 - 
Share options exercised
 3,903 
661,309
 - 
 - 
At the end of the year
 1,498,820 
90,602,453
 1,384,917 
 73,187,861 
34. 	
STATED CAPITAL AND OTHER COMPONENTS OF EQUITY
Accounting policy
The ordinary shares of John Keells Holdings PLC are quoted in the Colombo Stock Exchange. The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive 
dividends as declared from time to time and are eligible for one vote per share at General Meetings of the Company. The Group has in place an 
Employee Share Option Plan. Please refer Note 35 for further details.
The number of shares in issue as at 31 March 2024 was 1,498,819,707 which include global depository receipts (GDRs) of 1,320,942 (2023 -1,320,942).  
The GDR programme has been terminated. 6-month cancellation period for GDR Holders to convert their GDRs to shares lapses on 14 June 2024. 
Further information on the composition of shares in issue is given under the share information section of the annual report. 
A quantum of 27,397,640 shares (2023 - 35,295,775) have been reserved to be issued under the employee share option plan as at 31 March 2024.
34.2	
Other components of equity 
In Rs.'000s
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2024
2023
2024
2023
Revaluation reserve
 43,808,213 
41,136,975
 - 
 - 
Foreign currency translation reserve
 71,649,151 
 84,594,202 
 - 
 - 
Other capital reserve
 8,495,016 
 13,840,507 
 8,495,016
 13,840,507 
Restricted regulatory reserve
 3,626,604 
 3,626,604 
 - 
 - 
Cash flow hedge reserve
 3,294,625 
 4,215,838 
 3,294,625 
 4,215,838 
Fair value reserve of financial assets at FVOCI
 5,579,169 
 (1,323,092)
 15,147 
 (1,340)
 136,452,778
146,091,034
 11,804,788 
 18,055,005 
The revaluation reserve consists of the net surplus on the revaluation of 
property, plant and equipment and present value of acquired in-force 
business (PVIB).
The foreign currency translation reserve comprises the net exchange 
movement arising from the currency translation of foreign operations 
and equity accounted investees into Sri Lankan rupees.
The other capital reserve is used to recognise the value of equity-
settled share-based payments provided to employees, including key 
management personnel, as part of their remuneration.
Restricted regulatory reserve
Union Assurance PLC (UA)
Based on the direction issued by the Insurance Regulatory Commission 
of Sri Lanka (IRCSL) dated 20 March 2018, and subsequent approval, UA 
has transferred Rs.3,382 Mn attributable to non-participating and non 
unit fund of unit linked business from the life policyholder fund to the 
life shareholder fund (SHF). The distribution of the one-off surplus to 
shareholders, held as part of the Restricted The regulatory Reserve, is 
subject to meeting governance requirements stipulated by the IRCSL 
and can only be released upon receiving approval from the IRCSL. The 
one-off surplus in the SHF is represented by government debt securities 
as per the direction of the IRCSL. 
Nations Trust Bank PLC (NTB)
The statutory reserve fund is maintained as per the requirements in 
terms of Section 20 of the Banking Act No 30 of 1988. Accordingly, a sum 
equivalent to 5% of proﬁt after tax transferred to the reserve fund until 
the reserve fund is equal to 50% of the Bank’s Stated Capital. Thereafter, 
a further 2% of proﬁts will be transferred until the said reserve fund is 
equal to the Bank’s stated Capital.
Cash flow hedge reserve includes the fair value changes on the effective 
portion of interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges. 
The fair value reserve of financial assets at FVOCI includes changes in fair 
value of financial instruments designated as financial assets at FVOCI.

346 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
35. 	
SHARE-BASED PAYMENT PLANS 
Accounting Policy
Employee share option plan - Equity-settled transactions
Employees of the Group receive remuneration in the form of share-
based payment transactions, whereby employees render services as 
consideration for equity instruments (equity-settled transactions).
The Group applies SLFRS 2 Share Based Payments in accounting for 
employee remuneration in the form of shares from 1 April 2013 onwards.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with 
a corresponding increase in other capital reserves in equity, over the 
period in which the performance and service conditions are fulfilled. 
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at 
each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which 
the vesting period has expired and the Group’s best estimate of the 
number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest. The expense or 
credit to the income statement for a period represents the movement 
in cumulative expense recognised as at the beginning and end of that 
period and is recognised in employee benefits expense.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, 
except for equity-settled transactions where vesting is conditional 
upon a market or non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting 
irrespective of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is 
satisfied, provided that all other performance and service conditions are 
satisfied.
Where the terms of an equity-settled transaction award are modified, 
the minimum expense recognised is the expense as if the terms had not 
been modified, if the original terms of the award are met. An additional 
expense is recognised for any modification that increases the total fair 
value of the share-based payment transaction, or is otherwise beneficial 
to the employee as measured at the date of modification.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share 
dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per share (further details 
are given in Note 19.2).
Employee share option scheme
Under the John Keells Group’s Employees share option scheme (ESOP), 
share options of the parent are granted to executives of the Group 
generally with more than 12 months of service. The exercise price of the 
share options is equal to the 30 days volume weighted average market 
price of the underlying shares on the date of grant. The share options 
vest over a period of four years and is dependent on a performance 
criteria and a service criteria. The performance criteria being a minimum 
performance achievement of “Met Expectations” and service criteria 
being that the employee has to be in employment at the time the share 
options vest. The fair value of the share options is estimated at the grant 
date using a binomial option pricing model, taking into account the 
terms and conditions upon which the share options were granted.
The contractual term for each option granted is five years. There are no 
cash settlement alternatives. The Group does not have a past practice of 
cash settlement for these share options.
In Rs.'000s
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
2024
2023
2024
2023
Share based payment expense during the year
 341,011
 274,062
 94,585
78,989
Movements in the year
The following table illustrates the number (No.) and weighted average exercise prices (WAEP) of, and movements in, share options during the year;
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2024
2023
2024
2023
No.
WAEP
No.
WAEP
No.
WAEP
No.
WAEP
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
 35,295,775 
 137.44 
36,788,659
149.01
 10,711,776 
 138.07 
12,088,237
150.18
Granted during the year
 5,535,665 
 145.59 
 8,291,500 
 124.57 
 1,619,735 
 145.59 
 2,200,300 
 123.21 
Transfers
 - 
 - 
-
 - 
 - 
 (7,373)
 154.10 
Exercised during the year
 (3,903,075)
 135.20 
-
-
 (875,700)
 136.03 
 - 
 - 
Expired during the year
 (9,530,725)
 151.82 
 (9,784,384)
170.02 
 (2,874,676)
 154.01 
 (3,569,388)
 169.91 
Outstanding at the end of the year
 27,397,640 
 134.41 
 35,295,775 
 137.44 
 8,581,135 
 134.35 
 10,711,776 
 138.07 
Exercisable at the end of the year
 12,084,325
 133.65 
18,711,100
143.90
 3,990,425
 133.83
 5,829,401 
 144.73 
Weighted average market price at the date 
of exercise
-
188.18
-
-
-
190.83
-
-
Accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions 
The Group measures the cost of equity-settled transactions with 
employees by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments on 
the date at which they are granted. Estimating fair value for share-based 
payment transactions require determination of the most appropriate 
valuation model, which is dependent on the terms and conditions of 
the grant. This estimate also requires the determination of the most 
appropriate inputs to the valuation model, including the expected life of 
the share option, volatility and dividend yield and making assumptions 
about them.

347
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
COMPANY
As at 31st March
2024
Plan no 11
Award 2.1
2024
Plan no 11
Award 2
2023
Plan no 11
Award 1
2022
Plan no 10
Award 3
2021
Plan no 10
Award 2
2020
Plan no 10
Award 1
Dividend yield (%)
2.07
2.54
2.90              3.28               3.87              3.62 
Expected volatility (%)
25.05
24.99
24.15            22.37              21.35            17.47 
Risk free interest rate (%)
14.49
26.92
23.10              8.87               6.44              9.83 
Expected life of share options (Years)
5
5
5 
                5                   5 
                5 
Weighted average share price at the grant date (Rs.)
158.36
137.83
 119.85          132.63            134.74          138.70 
Weighted average remaining contractual life for the share options 
outstanding (Years)
3
 3 
  3 
                 3                    3 
                 3 
Weighted average fair value of options granted during the year (Rs.) 
52.79
45.94
 39.95            44.21 
 44.91            46.23 
Exercise price for options outstanding at the end of the year (Rs.)
145.59
137.86
121.91          136.64            132.86          136.97 
Exercise price for options outstanding at the end of the year (Rs.) 
(Adjusted as at 31 March 2024)
145.59
137.86
121.91          136.34            132.86          136.97 
36.	
INSURANCE CONTRACT LIABILITIES
Accounting policy 
Insurance contract liabilities 
The long term and unit linked insurance business provisions are based 
on the recommendation of the independent external actuary following 
annual valuation of the life insurance business. The actuarial valuation 
takes into account all liabilities, including contingent liabilities and is 
based on assumptions recommended by the actuary.
36.1 	 Insurance contract liabilities 
In Rs.'000s
As at 31 March
GROUP
2024
2023
Insurance contract liabilities
 68,936,451 
 58,381,193 
Unclaimed benefits
 574,416 
 526,117 
 69,510,867 
 58,907,310 
Life insurance contract liabilities 
Life insurance contract liabilities are recognised when contracts are 
entered into and premiums are charged.
These liabilities are measured by using the gross premium valuation 
method as prescribed by the Regulation of Insurance Industry Act No. 
43 of 2000. The liability is determined as the discounted value of the 
expected contractual cash outflows less the discounted value of the 
expected premiums. Valuation assumptions are derived based on the 
best estimate experience with a prescribed risk margin to allow for 
adverse deviations. Non-participating liabilities are discounted using the 
fund based yield of the non-participating insurance fund.
The value of participating policy liabilities is the higher of the value of 
the guaranteed benefits liability and the total benefits liability, derived 
at the Participating Insurance Fund level. In calculating the guaranteed 
benefits liability, only the guaranteed benefits are considered and the 
cash flows are discounted using the risk free interest rate yield curve. 
Total benefits liability includes all the guaranteed and non-guaranteed 
benefits, and discounted cash flows using the fund based yield of the 
Participating Insurance Fund.
Liability adequacy test (LAT)
At each reporting date, an assessment is made of whether the 
recognised life insurance liabilities are adequate by using an existing 
liability adequacy test as laid out under SLFRS 4 - Insurance Contracts. 
The liability value is adjusted to the extent that it is sufficient to meet 
future benefits and expenses.
In performing the adequacy test, current best estimates of future 
contractual cash flows, including related cash flows such as claims 
handling and policy administration expenses, policyholder options 
and guarantees, as well as investment income from assets backing 
such liabilities, are used. A number of valuation methods are applied, 
including discounted cash flows to the extent that the test involves 
discounting of cash flows, the interest rate applied based  
on management’s prudent expectation of current market interest rates.
Any deficiency shall be recognised in the Income Statement by setting 
up a provision for liability adequacy.
The expected life of the share options is based on historical data and 
current expectations and is not necessarily indicative of exercise patterns 
that may occur. The expected volatility reflects the assumption that 
the historical volatility over a period similar to the life of the options 
is indicative of future trends, which may not necessarily be the actual 
outcome either.
The following information was used and results were generated using 
binomial model for ESOP.

348 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions
Product classification
SLFRS 4 requires contracts written by insurers to be classified as either 
insurance contracts or investment contracts depending on the level of 
insurance risk transferred. 
Insurance contracts are contracts under which one party (the Insurer) 
accepts significant insurance risk from another party (the policyholder) 
by agreeing to compensate the policyholder if a specified uncertain 
future event (the insured event) adversely affects the policyholder. 
Significant insurance risk exists if an insured event could cause an insurer 
to pay significant additional benefits in any scenario, excluding scenarios 
that lack commercial substance (i.e. have no discernible effect on the 
economics of the transaction). The classification of contracts identifies 
both the insurance contracts that the company issues and reinsurance 
contracts that the company holds.
Contracts where the company does not assume a significant insurance 
risk is classified as investment contracts.
Investment contracts are those contracts that transfer significant 
financial risks and no significant insurance risks. Financial risk is the risk 
of a possible future change in one or more of a specified interest rates, 
financial instrument prices, commodity prices, foreign exchange rates, 
index of price or rates, credit ratings or credit index or other variables, 
provided in the case of a non-financial variable that the variable is not 
specific to a party to the contract.
Once a contract has been classified as an insurance contract, it remains 
an insurance contract for the remainder of its lifetime, even if the 
insurance risk reduces significantly during this period, unless all rights 
and obligations are extinguished or expired. Investment contracts 
can, however, be reclassified as insurance contracts after inception if 
insurance risk becomes significant.
Insurance and investment contracts are further classified as being either 
with or without discretionary participating features.
Discretionary participating features (DPF) 
DPF is a contractual right to receive, as a supplement to guaranteed 
benefits, additional benefits that;
•	 are likely to be a significant portion of the total contractual benefits;
•	 the amount or timing of which is contractually at the discretion of the 
issuer; and contractually based on:
•	 The performance of a specified pool of contracts or a specified type of 
contract,
•	 Realised and or unrealised investment returns on a specified pool of 
assets held by the issuer, and
•	 The profit or loss of the company, fund or other entity that issues the 
contract.
Derivatives embedded in an insurance contract or an investment 
contract with DPF are separated and fair valued through the income 
statement unless the embedded derivative itself is an insurance contract 
or investment contract with DPF. The derivative is also not separated if 
the host insurance contract and / or investment contract  
with DPF is measured at fair value through the profit and loss.
IRCSL regulations and the terms and conditions of these contracts 
set out the bases for the determination of the amounts on which the 
additional discretionary benefits are based (the DPF eligible surplus) 
and within which the company may exercise its discretion as to the 
quantum and timing of their payment to contract holders. At least 90% 
of the eligible surplus must be attributed to contract holders as a group 
(which can include future contract holders) and the amount and timing 
of the distribution to individual contract holders is at the discretion 
of the company, subject to the advice of the appointed actuary. 
All DPF liabilities including unallocated surpluses, both guaranteed 
and discretionary, at the end of the reporting period are held within 
insurance contract liabilities, as appropriate.
Valuation of life insurance contract liabilities
Long duration contract liabilities included in the life insurance fund, 
result primarily from traditional participating, non-participating life and 
universal life insurance products. Short duration contract liabilities are 
primarily group term. The actuarial reserves have been established based 
on the following;
• 	 Non-participating liabilities and participating liabilities are discounted 
using their respective fund yield curves.
• 	 Mortality rates based on published mortality tables adjusted for actual 
experience as required by regulations issued by the IRCSL.
• 	 Surrender rates based on actual experience.
The amount of policyholder dividend to be paid is determined annually 
by the company. The dividend includes life policyholders share of net 
income that is required to be allocated by the insurance contract.
The main assumptions used relate to mortality, morbidity, longevity, 
investment returns, expenses, lapses, surrender rates and discount 
rates as further detailed in notes to the financial statements. For those 
contracts that insure risk related to longevity, prudent allowance is made 
for expected future mortality improvements, as well as wide ranging 
changes to the life style, which could result in significant changes to the 
expected future mortality exposure.
Estimates are also made for future investment income arising from the 
assets backing Life Insurance contracts. These estimates are based on 
current market returns, as well as expectations about future economic 
and financial developments. During the last year, Sri Lankan economy 
was impacted by geopolitical and foreign exchange issues which 
introduced very high levels of volatility to the economic markets. As a 
result the interest rates increased a lot impacting the value of assets and 
also our expectations about future economic conditions. The fund based 
yield curves used in calculation of actuarial reserves have been derived 
using estimates of future economic conditions which still remains 
volatile and evolving in nature.
Assumptions on future expenses are based on current expense levels, 
adjusted for expected expense inflation, if appropriate. Lapse and 
surrender rates are based on the company’s historical experience of 
lapses and surrenders.
36.	
INSURANCE CONTRACT LIABILITIES (CONTD.)

349
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Valuation of life insurance fund
The valuation of the conventional life insurance fund as at 31 
December 2023 was carried out by Mr. Vivek Jalan FIA, FIAI of Willis 
Towers Watson India Private Limited and a sum of Rs. 2,800 million 
was transferred from the conventional life insurance fund to the 
shareholders fund for the year 2023. Subsequent to the transfer the 
conventional life fund stood at Rs. 64,798 million.
Similarly the non unit fund of linked long term business valuation 
was carried out by Mr. Vivek Jalan FIA, FIAI of Willis Towers Watson 
India Private Limited and the non unit fund stood at Rs. 246 million.
In the opinion of the appointed actuary, the admissible assets of 
the conventional life insurance fund and the non unit fund of linked 
long term business as at 31 December 2023 is adequate to cover the 
liabilities of the funds.
As at 31 March 2024, an internal actuarial valuation has been carried 
out for the conventional life insurance fund and the non unit fund of 
linked long term business. In the opinion, it was concluded that the 
admissible assets are adequate to cover the liabilities of the funds.
One - off surplus arising from change in policy
liability valuation
The one off surplus comprises of Rs. 432.5 million attributable to 
participating business and Rs. 2.5 million attributable to Unit Linked 
Fund and Rs. 3,382 million attributable to Non-Participating and Non 
Unit Fund of Unit Linked Business.
Based on the directions issued by the IRCSL dated 20 March 2018 and 
subsequent approval, the company has transferred Rs. 3,382 million 
attributable to non-participating and non unit fund of unit linked 
business from life policyholder fund through Income Statement to life 
shareholder fund and held as part of the Restricted Regulatory Reserve 
under equity in the statement of financial position.
One - off Surplus was determined as the difference between the 
NPV solvency basis liability and the GPV distribution basis liability as 
of 31 December 2015. This is calculated for Participating and other 
than participating funds, separately. Above basis is in line with the 
‘Minimum One - off Surplus’ calculation basis provided in the IRCSL 
guideline.
Movement in Life Insurance fund
In Rs.'000s
As at 31 December
2023
2022
Conventional life insurance fund
Balance as at 1 January
 55,179,789 
 48,709,776 
Increase in life insurance fund before surplus transfer to shareholders
 12,354,121 
 8,722,945 
Transfer to shareholders
 (2,800,000)
 (2,300,000)
Effect of taxation on surplus / Bonus transferred to Policyholders
 (21,149)
 (6,761)
Net change in unclaimed benefits
 84,862 
 53,829 
Balance as at 31 December 
 64,797,623 
 55,179,789 
Non unit fund of linked life insurance contracts
Balance as at 1 January
 251,104 
 169,176 
Increase in non unit fund of linked life insurance before surplus transfer to shareholders
 98,872 
 48,827 
Net change in unclaimed benefits
 (104,215)
 33,101 
Balance as at 31 December 
 245,761 
 251,104 
 65,043,384 
 55,430,893 

350 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
36.	
INSURANCE CONTRACT LIABILITIES (CONTD.)
SUMMARISED FINANCIAL INFORMATION
In Rs.'000s
For the year ended 31 March
2024
2023
Total Revenue
 18,434,229 
 15,952,535 
Cost of sales
 (10,340,332)
 (9,172,168)
Gross profit
 8,093,897 
 6,780,367 
Operating expenses including distribution and administration expenses
 (6,605,230)
 (5,341,994)
Net finance income
 12,837,204 
 8,923,960 
Profit attributable to shareholders of UA
 (3,492,543)
 (2,712,101)
Change in insurance contract liabilities
 10,833,328 
 7,650,232 
Union Assurance PLC follows a risk mitigation approach for inherent uncertainty regarding the occurrence, amount or timing of insurance contract 
liabilities.
The following table describes headline risks and responses.
Product
Key risks
Risk mitigation
Traditional participating
•	 Market risk: Investment return on underlying items 
falling below guaranteed minimum rates
• 	 Policyholder behaviour risk
• 	 Management discretion to determine amount and timing of 
policyholder bonuses (within limits)
• 	 Surrender penalties
Non-Participating
•	 Market risk: Insufficient fees to cover cost of 
guarantees and expenses
•	 Policyholder behaviour risk
•	 Derivative hedging programme
• 	 Surrender penalties
Universal life
•	 Interest rate risk: Differences in duration and yield of 
assets and liabilities
•	 Investment credit risk
•	 Matching of asset and liability cash flows
•	 Investing in investment grade assets
Unit linked product
•	 Market risk: Insufficient fees to cover expenses
•	 Policyholder behaviour risk
• 	 Product repricing
•	 Surrender penalties
Liability adequacy test (LAT) - Life insurance contract liabilities
As at 31 December 2023, liability adequacy test was performed by the 
appointed actuary Mr. Vivek Jalan FIA, FIAI of Willis Towers Watson India 
Private Limited who concluded that, the liability value is sufficient to 
meet future benefits and expenses. Hence, no provision was required to 
be made for any premium deficiency.
36.2 	 Change in life insurance contract liabilities 
The results of Union Assurance PLC’s (UA) life business segment is 
consolidated into the Group’s Consolidated Income Statement. The 
change in life insurance contract liabilities represents the transfer to 
the Life Fund, the difference between all income and expenditure 
attributable to life policy holders during the year. 

351
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
37. 	
INTEREST-BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS 
37.1 	 Movement 
In Rs.'000s
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2024
2023
2024
2023
At the beginning of the year
 172,618,318 
 199,546,346 
 70,252,715 
 67,197,027 
Cash movement
Loans obtained
2,106,129
 2,077,091 
-
-
Repayments
 (12,009,810)
 (45,034,878)
 (2,512,500)
 (1,837,500)
Non cash movement
Accrued Interest
 (214,413)
1,565,807
(120,130)
 590,611 
Exchange differences
 (12,113,780)
 14,463,952 
 (4,905,539)
 4,302,577 
At the end of the year
 150,386,444 
 172,618,318 
 62,714,546 
 70,252,715 
Repayable within one year
 23,216,942 
 12,839,426 
 7,670,053 
 3,344,997 
Repayable after one year
 127,169,502 
 159,778,892 
 55,044,493 
 66,907,718 
 150,386,444 
 172,618,318 
 62,714,546 
 70,252,715 
37.2 	 Security and repayment terms
As at 31 March
Nominal 
Interest rate
Repayment terms
Assets Pledged and Collaterals
2024
In Rs.’000s
2023
In Rs.’000s
John Keells Holdings 
PLC
Fixed rate
28 quarterly installments 
commencing from December 2020
-
 3,375,000
 4,275,000
Fixed rate
60 monthly installments 
commencing from December 2020
-
 3,675,000
 4,875,000
Fixed rate 
6-month SOFR 
plus margin 
(on separate 
components of 
the loan)
12 semi annual installments 
commencing from December 2024 
after 4 years grace period
Freehold land held under Vauxhall 
Land Developments (Pvt) Ltd (VLD), 
pledge of shares held by the Group 
in Ceylon Cold Stores PLC and Union 
Assurance PLC, and identified liquid 
assets.
 53,452,046
 58,477,715
Fixed rate
60 monthly installments 
commencing from June 2021
-
 2,212,500
 2,625,000
 62,714,546
 70,252,715

352 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
37. 	
INTEREST-BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS (CONTD.)
37.2 	 Security and repayment terms (Contd.)
As at 31 March
Nominal 
Interest rate
Repayment terms
Assets Pledged and Collaterals
2024
In Rs.’000s
2023
In Rs.’000s
GROUP COMPANIES
Asian Hotels and 
Properties PLC
Fixed rate
36 monthly installments 
commencing from September 
2021 after 6 months grace period
-
 126,359
 211,522
Beruwala Holiday 
Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
1 month SOFR 
plus margin 
23 monthly installments 
commencing from August 2022
-
 20,514
 208,022
Ceylon Cold Stores 
PLC
Fixed rate
48 monthly installments with one 
year grace period
-
 231,452
 329,203
Monthly AWPLR
48 monthly installments 
commencing from October 2024 
after one year grace period
-
 758,212
-
Ceylon Holiday 
Resorts Ltd
Fixed rate
48 monthly installments 
commencing from January 2023 
after 12 months grace period
Letter of Comfort from John Keells 
Holdings PLC
496,480
 591,120
Fixed for the first 
5 years and 1 
month AWPLR 
plus margin for 
the next 5 years 
102 monthly installments 
commencing from August 2022 
after 18 months grace period
Rs.3 Bn Corporate Guarantee from 
John Keells Hotels PLC 
 2,635,362
 3,033,912
Fantasea World 
Investments (Pte) 
Ltd
3 months SOFR 
plus margin
22 quarterly installments 
commencing from December 2018 
after 18 months grace period 
Leasehold rights of Island of 
Cinnamon Hakuraa Huraa. 
 3,554,934
 5,049,917
Habarana Walk Inn Ltd
Fixed rate
18 monthly installments 
commencing from July 2022 after 
6 months grace period
-
-
 5,966
Habarana Lodge Ltd
1 month SOFR 
plus margin
23 monthly installments 
commencing from August 2022
-
 7,326
 40,180
Fixed rate
18 monthly installments 
commencing from July 2022 after 
6 months grace period
-
-
 17,838
Hikkaduwa Holiday 
Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
1 month SOFR 
plus margin
23 monthly installments 
commencing from August 2022
-
 19,877
 109,013
Fixed rate
18 monthly installments 
commencing from July 2022 after 
6 months grace period
-
-
 8,892
Fixed rate
72 monthly installments 
commencing from July 2022 after 
12 months grace period
Rs.540 Mn Corporate Guarantee 
from John Keells Hotels PLC 
 443,675
 534,117
John Keells Properties 
Ja-Ela (Pvt) Ltd
1 month COF plus 
margin
60 monthly installments 
commencing from December 2016
General terms and conditions for 
Rs.450 Mn signed relating to the 
term loan
 49,850
 68,500
John Keells Logistics 
(Pvt) Ltd
Fixed rate
24 quarterly installments after a 
grace period of 1 year 
 - 
 510,125
 199,760
John Keells Hotels PLC
AWPLR to be 
reviewed monthly
08 bi-annual installments 
commencing after 06 months of 
grace period
-
 204,481
-
Fixed for the first 
3 years and 1 
month AWPLR 
plus margin for 
the next 4 years
10 bi-annual installments 
commencing from June 2023 after 
24 months grace period
Letter of Comfort from John Keells 
Holdings PLC 
 967,148
 1,199,755

353
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
As at 31 March
Nominal 
Interest rate
Repayment terms
Assets Pledged and Collaterals
2024
In Rs.’000s
2023
In Rs.’000s
Jaykay Marketing 
Services (Pvt) Ltd
Fixed rate
20 quarterly installments 
commencing from March 2021
-
 1,400,000
 2,200,000
Fixed rate
20 quarterly installments 
commencing from May 2021
 - 
 900,000
 1,200,000
Fixed rate
Repayment on maturity - the date 
falling 36 months from the first 
drawdown date
-
 2,000,000
 2,000,000
Keells Food Products 
PLC
1 month COF plus 
margin
60 monthly installments 
commencing from February 2019
 - 
-
 42,213
Fixed rate
Lump Sum payment in April 2024
-
 224,916
-
Kandy Walk Inn Ltd
Fixed rate
18 monthly installments 
commencing from July 2022 after 
6 months grace period
-
-
 12,509
Logipark International 
(Pvt) Ltd
3 months COF 
plus margin
15 quarterly installments after 1 
year grace period
Mortgage over the property
 2,376,957
 3,291,305
Mack Air (Pvt) Ltd
Fixed rate
15 monthly installments 
commencing after 9 months grace 
period
-
-
 2,000
Rajawella Holdings Ltd
1 month COF plus 
margin
60 monthly installments 
commencing from April 2020 after 
1 year grace period
-
 57,500
 236,242
The Colombo Ice 
Company (Pvt) Ltd
1 month COF plus 
margin
60 monthly installments 
commencing from March 2017 
after 1 year grace period 
-
-
 248,162
Trans Asia Hotels PLC
1 month SOFR 
plus margin
24 monthly installments 
commencing from January 2023
-
 110,726
 213,987
AWPLR based plus 
margin
12 monthly installments 
-
 344,000
-
Tranquility (Pte) Ltd
3 months SOFR 
plus margin
16 quarterly installments after 12 
months grace period commencing 
from September 2019 and grace 
period of 12 months from March 
2020 to February 2021
Leasehold right on the Island of 
Kanuoiy Huraa in Kaafu (Male') 
 4,066,541
 6,597,250
Trinco Holiday Resorts 
(Pvt) Ltd
AWPLR plus 
margin
13 monthly installments 
commencing from July 2022 after 
12 months grace period
Letter of Comfort from John Keells 
Hotels PLC
 12,253
 61,267
1 month SOFR 
plus margin
23 monthly installments 
commencing from August 2022
-
 8,576
 47,036
Fixed rate
18 monthly installments from July 
2022 after 6 months grace period
-
-
 8,686
Waterfront Properties 
(Pvt) Ltd
3 month SOFR 
plus margin
5-year loan with a 2-year grace 
period and back-ended capital 
payments.
WPL’s assets (other than the 
residential and office buildings), 
Sponsor support undertaking by 
JKH, Pledge of 16.5 Bn shares  
held by JKH in WPL
 66,093,775
 74,330,204
Walkers Tours Ltd
Fixed rate
23 monthly installments 
commencing from September 
2021 after 6 months grace period
-
 32,872
 164,360
Whittal Boustead 
(Travel) Ltd
364-days Treasury  
Bills rate plus  
margin
24 monthly installments 
commencing from March 2021 
after a 6 months grace period
-
 12,491
 62,454
Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd
1 month SOFR 
plus margin
23 monthly installments 
commencing from August 2022
-
 5,496
 10,070
Fixed rate
18 monthly installments 
commencing from July 2022 after 
6 months grace period
-
-
 30,142
 150,386,444
 172,618,318

354 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
Employee defined benefit plan - gratuity
The liability recognised in the statement of financial position is the 
present value of the defined benefit obligation as at the reporting date 
using the projected unit credit method. Any actuarial gains or losses 
arising are recognised immediately in other comprehensive income.
Under the Payment of Gratuity Act No. 12 of 1983, the liability to an 
employee arises only on completion of 5 years of continued service. The 
obligation is not externally funded.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
38. 	
EMPLOYEE BENEFIT LIABILITIES
Accounting Policy
Employee contribution plans - EPF/ETF
Employees are eligible for Employees’ Provident Fund contributions 
and Employees’ Trust Fund contributions in line with respective statutes 
and regulations. The companies contribute the defined percentages of 
gross emoluments of employees to an approved Employees’ Provident 
Fund and to the Employees’ Trust Fund respectively, which are externally 
funded.
38.2 	 Employee defined benefit plan - gratuity
In Rs.'000s
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2024
2023
2024
2023
At the beginning of the year
 2,513,093 
2,439,021
 219,756 
146,903
Current service cost
 346,920 
222,064
 22,939 
15,205
Transfers
 - 
-
 (637)
-
Interest cost on benefit obligation
 457,279 
203,311
 43,642 
12,421
Payments
 (288,748)
(267,819)
 (2,990)
(3,886)
(Gain)/Loss arising from changes in assumptions 
539,839
(81,295)
 44,216 
49,113
Exchange differences
 - 
( 2,189)
 - 
-
At the end of the year
 3,568,383 
2,513,093
 326,926 
219,756
The expenses are recognised in the income statement in the following line 
items;
	 Cost of sales
 341,939 
183,435
4,686
3,543
	 Selling and distribution expenses
 106,180 
28,954
 - 
-
	 Administrative expenses
 356,080 
212,986
 61,895 
24,083
 804,199 
425,375
66,581
27,626
38.3 	 Other long term employee benefits
In Rs.'000s
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2024
2023
2024
2023
At the beginning of the year
 46,539 
667,596
 - 
151,006
Current service cost
 (26,332)
(674,465)
 - 
(163,086)
Interest cost
 2,193 
53,408
 - 
12,080
At the end of the year
 22,400 
46,539
 - 
-
38.1 	 Employee benefit liabilities
In Rs.'000s
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
Note
2024
2023
2024
2023
Employee defined benefit plan - gratuity
 38.2 
3,568,383
2,513,093
 326,926 
219,756
Other long term employee benefit
 38.3 
 22,400 
46,539
 - 
-
At the end of the year
 3,590,783 
2,559,632
 326,926 
219,756

355
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions 
Employee benefit liability - gratuity
The employee benefit liability of the Group is based on the actuarial 
valuation carried out by independent actuarial specialists. The actuarial 
valuations are involve in making assumptions about discount rates and 
future salary increases. The complexity of the valuation, the underlying 
assumptions and its long term nature, the defined benefit obligation is 
highly sensitive to changes in these assumptions. All assumptions are 
reviewed at each reporting date. 
The Management tested several scenarios based calculations on possible 
changes of the assumptions due to the prevailing macroeconomic 
conditions. Based on those calculations, the management has 
concluded that there is no material impact to retirement benefit 
obligation liability of the Group.   
The principal assumptions used in determining the cost of employee benefits were:
For the year ended 31 March
2024
2023
Discount rate
11.00% - 13.00%
18.00% -19.00%
Future salary increases
11.00% - 12.00%
11.00% -15.00%
The adjusted treasury bond rate for the credit spread has been used as the discounted rate.
38.4 	 Sensitivity of assumptions used
A percentage change in the assumptions would have the following effects to employee defined benefit plan - gratuity.
In Rs.'000s
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2024
2023
2024
2023
Discount rate:
	 1% Increase
 (159,683)
(104,429)
 (10,507)
(6,849)
	 1% Decrease
 138,798 
91,414
 11,256 
7,311
Salary Increment rate:
	 1% Increase
 145,586
100,305
 11,689 
7,899
	 1% Decrease
 (261,347)
(114,064)
 (11,096)
(7,504)
38.5 	 Maturity analysis of the payments 
The following payments are expected on employee benefit plan - gratuity in future years.
In Rs.'000s
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2024
2023
2024
2023
Within the next 12 months
 244,365 
151,479
 22,222 
-
Between 1 and 2 years
 227,810 
236,076
-
18,323
Between 2 and 5 years
 2,012,204 
1,042,794
 304,704 
176,201
Between 5 and 10 years
 968,710 
1,009,765
-
25,232
Beyond 10 years
 115,294 
72,979
 - 
-
Total expected payments
 3,568,383 
2,513,093
 326,926 
219,756
Weighted average duration (years) of defined benefit obligation
6.33
6.72
4.30
4.93
39. 	
NON CURRENT FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
Accounting policy
Group classifies all financial non current liabilities under non current financial liabilities which include forward contract liabilities and construction 
retention liabilities of the Waterfront integrated resort project.
In Rs.'000s
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
Note
2024
2023
2024
2023
Construction retention
 
1,185,728
 1,726,877 
-
-
Convertible debentures 
 39.1 
10,201,449
 18,380,148 
10,201,449
 18,380,148 
11,387,177
 20,107,025 
10,201,449
 18,380,148 

356 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
39. 	
NON CURRENT FINANCIAL LIABILITIES (CONTD.)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
39.1 	 Issue of unlisted convertible debentures to HWIC Asia Fund, a 
subsidiary of Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd
The Company raised foreign direct investments of Rs.27.06 billion 
through a private placement of unrated, unlisted, unsecured convertible 
debentures on 12 August 2022 at an issue price of Rs.130 per debenture 
to certain controlled affiliates (subsidiaries) of Fairfax Financial Holdings 
Limited. As per the SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments, the convertible 
debentures were contrasted against an equivalent plain debenture in 
order to segregate the liability and equity components associated with 
the transaction. HWIC has exercised its option to convert 110,000,000 
debentures of Rs.14.30 billion. 
40. 	
OTHER NON CURRENT LIABILITIES
Accounting policy
Group classifies all non-financial non current liabilities under other non current liabilities which include non refundable advances and deposits.
In Rs.'000s
AS at 31 March
GROUP
2024
2023
Contract liabilities
395,686
 158,640 
Deposits
111,259
 103,366 
Other deferred liabilities
108,500
 24,230 
615,445
 286,236 
41. 	
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
Accounting policy 
Trade payables are the aggregate amount of obligations to pay for goods or services, that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business. Trade 
payables are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year.
In Rs.'000s
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2024
2023
2024
2023
Trade and other payables
41,764,296
 28,570,126 
1,463,935
 631,405 
Contract liabilities
179,618
 186,264 
-
 - 
Reinsurance payables
317,748
 626,885 
-
 - 
Advances and deposits
320,934
 483,007 
-
 - 
42,582,596
 29,866,282 
1,463,935
 631,405 
Trade and other payables are non-interest bearing and settled within one year. Reinsurance payables are settled within one year. For further explanation 
on the Group’s liquidity risk management process refer Note 11.2.2.
42. 	
SHORT TERM BORROWINGS
Accounting policy 
Short term borrowings are the interest bearing borrowings of the Group which fall due within 12 months from the end of the financial year. These are 
obtained for working capital requirements. 
In Rs.'000s
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2024
2023
2024
2023
Bank borrowings
21,062,456
 8,701,652 
13,909,261
 1,300,000 
21,062,456
 8,701,652 
13,909,261
 1,300,000 
The remaining outstanding debentures post this conversion amount to 
98,125,000 debentures of Rs. 12.76 billion. The remaining debentures are 
eligible for conversion till 12 August 2025.
Accordinly, JKH has issued and listed 110,000,000 new ordinary shares of 
the Company. Stated capital was increased by the balance attributable to 
the converted number of shares from the liability component recognised 
under Non current Financial Libilities and the initial equity portion 
recognised under Other Capital Reserve.

357
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
43. 	
OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES 
Accounting policy
The Group classifies all non-financial current liabilities under other current liabilities.
In Rs.'000s
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2024
2023
2024
2023
Non refundable deposits
1,850,538
705,403
-
 - 
Contract liabilities
2,085,632
2,016,418
-
 - 
Other tax payables
2,732,341
2,469,758
21,441
 17,811 
6,668,511
 5,191,579 
21,441
 17,811 
44. 	
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties
The Group and the Company carried out transactions in the ordinary 
course of business with the following related entities. The list of Directors 
at each of the subsidiaries, joint venture and associate companies 
have been disclosed in the Group Directory under the Supplementary 
Information section of the Annual Report.
Governance structure, nature of the entity’s relationships, principal place 
of business and the country of incorporation have been disclosed in the 
“Report of the Related Party Transaction Review Committee" and Group 
directory.
Transactions with related parties are carried out in the ordinary course 
of business. Outstanding current account balances at year end are 
unsecured, interest free and settlement occurs in cash.
The sales to and purchases from related parties are made on terms 
equivalent to those that prevail in arm's length transactions.
Non-recurrent related party transactions
There were no non-recurrent related party transactions which in 
aggregate value exceeds 10% of the equity or 5% of the total assets 
whichever is lower of the company as per 31 March 2023 audited 
financial statements, which required additional disclosures in the 
2023/24 Annual Report under Colombo Stock Exchange listing  
Rule 9.14.8 and Code of Best Practices on Related Party Transactions 
under the Securities and Exchange Commission Directive issued under 
Section 13(c) of the Securities and Exchange Commission Act.
Recurrent related party transactions
There were no recurrent related party transactions which in aggregate value 
exceeds 10% of the consolidated revenue of the Group as per 31 March 
2023 audited financial Statements, which required additional disclosures 
in the 2023/24 Annual Report under Colombo Stock Exchange listing  
Rule 9.14.8 and Code of Best Practices on Related Party Transactions under 
the Securities and Exchange Commission Directive issued under Section 
13(c) of the Securities and Exchange Commission Act.
44.1 	 Amounts due from related parties
In Rs.'000s
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
Note
2024
2023
2024
2023
Entity including its affiliated entities with significant influence over parent
65,356
-
-
-
Subsidiaries
44.5
 - 
 -
 1,075,491 
 938,444 
Equity accounted investees
 608,823 
 317,700
 215,355 
 239,172 
Key management personnel 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
674,179
 317,700 
 1,290,846 
 1,177,616 
44.2 	 Amounts due to related parties
In Rs.'000s
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
Note
2024
2023
2024
2023
Entity including its affiliated entities with significant influence over parent
436,731
-
-
-
Subsidiaries
44.6
 - 
 - 
 83,853 
 58,244 
Equity accounted investees
12,012
 3,615 
 4,988 
 - 
Key management personnel 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
448,743
 3,615 
 88,841 
 58,244 

358 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
44. 	
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (CONTD.)
44.3 	 Transactions with related parties
In Rs.'000s
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
Note
2024
2023
2024
2023
Entity including its affiliated entities with significant influence over 
parent
	 Sale of goods
 5,667 
-
-
-
	 Purchase of goods
 1,890,322
-
-
-
	 Rendering of services
 60,699
-
-
-
Subsidiaries
 	 Purchases of goods
 - 
-
 15,896 
17,865
 	 Rendering of services
 44.5 
 - 
-
 2,307,582 
1,788,455
 	 Receiving of services
 44.6 
 - 
-
 472,380 
624,506
 	 Rent paid
 - 
-
 38,949 
34,867
 	 Dividend received
 - 
-
6,507,034
4,697,143
Equity accounted investees
 Sale of goods
 22,200 
 18,861 
-
-
 Rendering of services
 44.5 
 1,115,096 
 1,243,441 
 606,219
759,450
 Receiving of services
 199,163 
 311,256 
71
88
 Interest received
 44.4 
 1,167,604 
 1,096,370 
1,161,726
1,066,417
 Interest paid
 44.4 
 105,236 
 150,068 
8
7,991
 Dividend received
-
-
4,996,156
5,937,857
Key management personnel (KMP)
 	 Sale of goods
-
-
-
-
Close family members of KMP
 	 Sale of goods
-
-
-
-
Companies controlled / jointly controlled / significantly 
	 Influenced by KMP and their close family members
	 Rendering of services
7,314
1,548
-
-
	 Receiving of services
32,361
37,151
-
-
Post employment benefit plan
 	 Contributions to the provident fund
 404,540
 338,801
 120,080
 91,504
44.4 	 Transactions with related parties - Associates
In Rs.'000s
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
2024
2023
2024
2023
Nations Trust Bank PLC
Interest received 
 1,167,604 
1,096,370
 1,161,726 
1,066,417
Interest paid
 105,236 
150,068
8
7,991
The Group held interest bearing deposits of Rs. 14,560 Mn (2023 - Rs. 16,092 Mn) at Nations Trust Bank PLC as at 31 March 2024.

359
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
44.5 	 Related party transactions and balances 
In Rs.'000s
COMPANY
Rendering of services
Amounts due from
For the year ended/As at 31 March
2024
2023
2024
2023
Subsidiaries
Asian Hotels and Properties PLC
 81,641 
 65,000 
 30,896 
 8,653 
Beruwala Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
 20,567 
 15,816 
 2,325 
 1,973 
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC
 363,575 
 238,372 
 156,975 
 446,895 
Ceylon Holiday Resorts Ltd
 20,599 
 16,016 
 2,338 
 1,929 
Cinnamon Hotel Management Services Ltd
 1,528 
 79,973 
 255 
 22,321 
Fantasea World Investments (Pte) Ltd
 10,350 
 8,096 
 942 
 855 
Habarana Lodge Ltd
 16,236 
 13,322 
 1,791 
 1,579 
Habarana Walk Inn Ltd
 12,617 
 10,444 
 1,324 
 1,268 
Hikkaduwa Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
 16,567 
 13,288 
 1,845 
 1,643 
InfoMate (Pvt) Ltd
 123,715 
 82,096 
 67,876 
 28,120 
JayKay Marketing Services (Pvt) Ltd
 626,886 
 518,560 
 468,989 
 204,090 
John Keells Information Technologies (Pvt) Ltd
 94,956 
 91,625 
 13,488 
 39,038 
John Keells International (Pvt) Ltd
 9,500 
 7,886 
 811 
 8,497 
John Keells Logistics (Pvt) Ltd
 46,254 
 40,718 
 74,797 
 48,176 
John Keells Maldivian Resorts (Pte) Ltd
 6,011 
 4,356 
 464 
 531 
John Keells Office Automation (Pvt) Ltd
 49,359 
 42,348 
 41,303 
 31,906 
John Keells PLC
 28,180 
 21,897 
 3,606 
 2,426 
John Keells Stock Brokers (Pvt) Ltd
 17,728 
 13,870 
 - 
 13 
John Keells Teas Ltd
 3,642 
 2,737 
 1,018 
 1,548 
John Keells Warehousing (Pvt) Ltd
 4,791 
 3,917 
 466 
 313 
Kandy Walk Inn Ltd
 15,581 
 12,584 
 1,544 
 1,478 
Keells Consultants (Pvt) Ltd
 4,432 
 4,852 
 624 
 1,347 
Keells Food Products PLC
 66,446 
 50,619 
 6,994 
 4,767 
Lanka Marine Services Ltd
 23,019 
 19,936 
 2,700 
 2,293 
Mack Air (Pvt) Ltd
 21,058 
 14,825 
 1,837 
 - 
Mackinnon Keells Ltd
 2,579 
 2,217 
 761 
 209 
Mackinnons Travels (Pvt) Ltd
 13,983 
 9,108 
 2,358 
 2,073 
Rajawella Holdings Ltd
 13,438 
 10,130 
 8,433 
 5,401 
Tea Small Holder Factories PLC
 8,983 
 4,289 
 1,211 
 1,230 
The Colombo Ice Company (Pvt) Ltd
 25,634 
 18,958 
 3,082 
 - 
Tranquility (Pte) Ltd
 23,240 
 10,547 
 2,197 
 1,820 
Trans Asia Hotels PLC
 57,857 
 45,785 
 12,278 
 7,741 
Travel Club (Pte) Ltd
 9,599 
 7,626 
 925 
 782 
Trinco Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
 13,223 
 10,600 
 1,433 
 1,312 
Union Assurance PLC
 124,315 
 103,778 
 49,005 
 15,094 
Walkers Tours Ltd
 45,526 
 37,410 
 5,142 
 5,017 
Waterfront properties (Pvt) Ltd
 51,332 
 39,623 
 40,879 
 8,064 
Whittall Boustead (Pvt) Ltd
 41,766 
 32,592 
 4,440 
 6,671 
Whittall Boustead (Travel) Ltd
 9,880 
 9,310 
 1,024 
 830 
Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd
 13,819 
 11,642 
 1,648 
 1,307 
Other subsidiaries
 167,170 
 41,690 
 55,467 
 19,163 
 2,307,582 
 1,788,455 
 1,075,491 
 938,444 

360 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
In Rs.'000s
COMPANY
Rendering of services
Amounts due from
For the year ended/As at 31 March
2024
2023
2024
2023
Joint ventures
DHL Keells (Pvt) Ltd
 563,178 
 718,950 
 136,839 
167,528
Braybrooke Residential Properties (Pvt) Ltd
 951 
 1,168 
 80 
 400 
Inchcape Mackinnon Mackenzie Shipping (Pvt) Ltd
 1,355 
 834 
 143 
 127 
Sentinel Reality (Pvt) Ltd
-
 - 
-
 1 
 
Associates
Nations Trust Bank PLC
-
 - 
 152 
 1,899 
Saffron Aviation (Pvt) Ltd
 6,246 
 3,776 
 1,399 
5,077
South Asia Gateway Terminals (Pvt) Ltd
 9,767 
 10,461 
 480 
 2,542 
Capital Hotel Holdings (Pvt) Ltd
 14,956 
 11,337 
 1,753 
 1,656 
Colombo West International Terminal (Pvt) Ltd
 9,766 
 12,924 
 74,509 
 59,942 
 606,219 
 759,450 
 215,355 
 239,172 
44.6 	 Related party transactions and balances 
In Rs.'000s
COMPANY
Receiving of services
Amounts due to
For the year ended/As at 31 March
2024
2023
2024
2023
Subsidiaries
Asian Hotels and Properties PLC
 - 
 15,315 
 7,949 
 7,563 
Infomate (Pvt) Ltd
 10,938 
 8,435 
 1,844 
 3,356 
Trans Asia Hotels PLC
 - 
 6,890 
 7,684 
 - 
John Keells Information Technologies (Pvt) Ltd 
 423,906 
 492,765 
 39,224 
 23,327 
John Keells Singapore (Pte) Ltd
 19,472 
 40,285 
 - 
 - 
Mackinnons Travels (Pvt) Ltd
 - 
 44,596 
 5,797 
 - 
Whittall Boustead (Pvt) Ltd
 13,447 
 10,055 
 1,816 
 - 
Other subsidiaries
 4,617 
14,787
 19,539 
 23,998 
 472,380 
 624,506 
 83,853 
 58,244 
Joint ventures
DHL Keells (Pvt) Ltd
 71 
 88 
 - 
-
Associates
Fairfirst Insurance Ltd.
 - 
-
 4,420 
-
Saffron Aviation (Pvt) Ltd.
 - 
-
 178 
-
Capital Hotel Holdings (Pvt) Ltd.
 - 
-
 390 
-
 71 
 88 
 4,988 
 - 
Details of inter-company assets pledged and given as collateral for loans and borrowings can be found in Interest-bearing loans and borrowings  
Note 37.2 in the financial statements.
44. 	
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (CONTD.)
44.5 	 Related party transactions and balances (Contd.)

361
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
44.7 	 Compensation of key management personnel
Key management personnel include members of the Board of Directors of John Keells Holdings PLC and its subsidiary companies.
In Rs.'000s
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
2024
2023
2024
2023
Short-term employee benefits
 844,868 
691,809
 288,034 
215,819
Post employment benefits
 16,224 
13,189
 5,758 
4,560
Share based payments
 133,518 
114,361
 40,379 
38,016
 994,610 
819,359
 334,171 
258,395
Directors’ interest in the employee share option plan of the Company
As at 31 March 2024, the executive members of the Board of Directors held options to purchase ordinary shares under the employee share option plan 
as follows;
COMPANY
2024
2023
Expiry date
Adjusted exercise
price 
Rs.
Number of shares
outstanding at 
the end of period
Number of shares
exercisable at the
end of period
Number of shares
outstanding at the
end of period
Number of shares 
exercisable at the 
end of period
31.06.2023
 154.10 
-
-
880,000
880,000
30.06.2024
 136.97 
 880,000 
 880,000 
880,000
660,000
30.06.2025
 132.86 
 880,000 
 660,000 
880,000
440,000
30.06.2026
 136.64 
 880,000 
 440,000 
880,000
220,000
30.06.2027
 121.91 
 862,000 
 215,500 
880,000
-
30.06.2028
 145.59 
 689,600 
 - 
-
-
No share options have been granted to the non-executive members of the Board of Directors under the employee share option plan.
OTHER DISCLOSURES
45. 	
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
Accounting policy
Provisions, contingent assets and contingent liabilities 
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation 
(legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that an 
outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required 
to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the 
amount of the obligation. Where the Group expects some or all of a 
provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, 
the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when the 
reimbursement is virtually certain.
The expense relating to any provision is presented in the income 
statement net of any reimbursement.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are 
discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, where appropriate, 
the risks specific to the liability. Where discounting is used, the increase in 
the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost. 
All contingent liabilities are disclosed as a note to the financial statements 
unless the outflow of resources is remote. A contingent liability recognised 
in a business combination is initially measured at its fair value. 
Subsequently, it is measured at the higher of: the amount that would 
be recognised in accordance with the general guidance for provisions 
above (LKAS 37) or the amount initially recognised less, when 
appropriate, cumulative amortisation recognised in accordance with 
the guidance for revenue recognition (SLFRS 15). Contingent assets are 
disclosed, where inflow of economic benefit is probable. 
The contingent liabilities of the Company and the Group as at 31 March 
2024, relates to the following:
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC (JKH)
The contingent liability of the Company as at 31 March 2024, relates to 
the following: 
Income tax assessment relating to year of assessment 2006/07. 
The Company has lodged appeals against the assessment and is 
contesting it under appellate procedure. 
Having discussed with independent legal and tax experts and based 
on information available, the contingent liability as at 31 March 2024, is 
estimated at Rs.54 Mn.

362 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
45. 	
CONTINGENT LIABILITIESS (CONTD.)
CEYLON COLD STORES PLC (CCS) 
The contingent liability of CCS as at 31 March 2024, relates to the 
following: 
Income tax assessment relating to years of assessment 2009/10 to 
2016/17. 
The company has lodged appeals against the assessments and is 
contesting these under appellate procedure. 
Having discussed with independent legal and tax experts and based on 
the information available, the contingent liability as at 31 March 2024 is 
estimated at Rs.36.5 Mn.
LANKA MARINE SERVICES (PVT) LTD (LMS) 
The contingent liability of LMS as at 31 March 2024, relates to the 
following: 
Income tax assessments relating to year of assessment 2001/02, 2002/03 
to 2004/05, 2007/08, 2008/09, 2009/10 and 2011/12.
The company has appealed against the assessments on the grounds 
that the sale of bunker to foreign-going ships is an export, which is 
liable to concessionary rates of taxes, but this has been disputed by the 
Department of Inland Revenue (IRD). The Court of Appeal varied the 
terms on which TAC/Board of Review (BOR) determined the matter but 
affirmed the decision by the BOR/TAC which was in favour of the IRD. 
The company has lodged an appeal to the Supreme Court, and having 
considered the matter, the Supreme Court has granted leave to proceed. 
Income tax assessments relating to years of assessment from 2005/06, 
2006/07, 2010/11, 2012/13, 2013/14 to 2020/21. The company has 
lodged appeals against the assessments and is contesting these under 
the appellate procedure. 
Apart from the procedural grounds of appeal, the substantive issue 
under dispute is the position taken by the company that the sale of 
bunker to foreign ships is an export and is entitled to the exemptions 
concessions attached thereto. 
Having discussed with independent legal and tax experts and based 
on information available, the contingent liability as at 31 March 2024, is 
estimated at Rs.1,369 Mn.
MACKINNONS TRAVELS (PVT) LTD (MTL) 
The contingent liability of MTL as at 31 March 2024, relates to the 
following: 
Value Added Tax assessments relating to the periods from 1 April 2009 to 
31 March 2011 and 1 January 2017 to 30 November 2019.
The company has lodged appeals against the assessments and is 
contesting these under appellate procedure. 
Having discussed with independent legal and tax experts and based 
on information available, the contingent liability as at 31 March 2024 is 
estimated at Rs.108 Mn.
CINNAMON HOTEL MANAGEMENT LTD (CHML) 
The contingent liability of CHML as at 31 March 2024, relates to the 
following: 
Income tax assessment relating to year of assessment 2018/19. 
The company has lodged an appeal against the assessment and is 
contesting these under appellate procedure. 
Having discussed with independent legal and tax experts and based on 
the information available, the contingent liability as at 31 March 2024 is 
estimated at Rs.14.3 Mn
TRANS ASIA HOTELS PLC (TAH) 
The contingent liability of TAH as at 31 March 2024, relates to the 
following: 
Income tax assessments relating to years of assessment 2012/13 to 
2017/18. 
The company has lodged appeals against the assessments and is 
contesting these under appellate procedure. 
Having discussed with independent legal and tax experts and based on 
the information available, the contingent liability as at 31 March 2024 is 
estimated at Rs.183.3 Mn.

363
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
JOHN KEELLS HOTELS PLC (JK HOTELS PLC)
The contingent liability of JK Hotels PLC as at 31 March 2024, relates to 
the following:
Income tax assessments relating to years of assessment 2018/19 and 
2019/20.
The company has lodged appeals against the assessments and is 
contesting these under appellate procedure. 
Having discussed with independent legal and tax experts and based on 
the information available, the contingent liability as at 31 March 2024 is 
estimated at Rs.10.6 Mn.
HABARANA WALK INN LTD (HWI)
The contingent liability of HWI as at 31 March 2024, relates to the 
following:
Income tax assessment relating to year of assessment 2019/20.
The company has lodged appeals against the assessments and is 
contesting these under appellate procedure. 
Having discussed with independent legal and tax experts and based on 
the information available, the contingent liability as at 31 March 2024 is 
estimated at Rs. 57.3 Mn.
UNION ASSURANCE PLC (UA) 
The contingent liability of UA as at 31 March 2024, relates to the 
following: 
Value Added Tax assessments relating to the periods from 1 April 2018 to 
31 September 2019.
The company has lodged appeals against the assessments and is 
contesting these under appellate procedure. Having discussed with 
independent legal and tax experts and based on information available, 
the contingent liability as at 31 March 2024, is estimated at Rs. 0.07 Mn. 
Financial Services VAT and NBT assessments relating to the periods from 
1 January 2016 to 31 December 2018. 
The company has lodged appeals against the assessments and is 
contesting these under appellate procedure. Having discussed with 
independent legal and tax experts and based on information available, 
the contingent liability as at 31 March 2024, is estimated at Rs. 519 Mn. 
Income Tax Assessments received for years of assessments 2010/11, 
2011/12, 2012/13, 2013/14, 2014/15, 2015/16,2016/17, 2017/18, 2018/19, 
2019/20 and 2020/21.
The assessments were raised for the above years of assessment by 
making life insurance income liable to pay income taxes of Rs. 5.854 Bn 
in total. The company has lodged valid appeals against the assessments 
raised and is contesting these under the appellate procedure. 
Having discussed with independent legal and tax experts and based on 
information available, the Directors are of the view that the company has 
followed due process and acted in accordance with the prevailing laws 
in its tax submissions for years of assessment from 2010/11 to 2020/21 
and accordingly have concluded that the above assessments have no 
rationale or basis in law.
46. 	
CAPITAL AND OTHER COMMITMENTS
In Rs.'000s
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2024
2023
2024
2023
Capital commitments approved but not provided for
21,132,833
18,685,499
-
-
Guarantees
2,518,491
3,301,937
2,446,021
2,620,621
23,651,324
21,987,436
2,446,021
2,620,621

364 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
47. 	
ASSETS PLEDGED
Assets pledged for facilities obtained are given in Note 37.2 to the 
financial statements. 
48. 	
EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD
The Board of Directors of the Company has declared a final dividend of 
Rs. 0.50 per share for the financial year ended 31 March 2024. As required 
by section 56 (2) of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, the Board of 
Directors has confirmed that the Company satisfies the solvency test in 
accordance with section 57 of the Companies Act No.07 of 2007, and has 
obtained a certificate from auditors, prior to declaring a final dividend 
which is to be paid on or before 25 June 2024.
In accordance with LKAS 10, Events after the reporting period, the 
final dividend has not been recognised as a liability in the financial 
statements as at 31 March 2024.

365
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
366  History of John Keells Group    367  Decade at a Glance    368  Economic Value Statement 
370  Indicative US Dollar Financial Statements    372  Group Real Estate Portfolio 
374  Glossary    375  Independent Assurance Statement on Non-Financial Reporting 
378  Group Directory    388  GRI - Disclosure 207-4    389  GRI Content Index    401  Notice of Meeting
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
True to Life

366 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
MANAGEMENT APPROACH TO FINANCIAL 
AND MANUFACTURED CAPITAL
HISTORY OF THE JOHN KEELLS GROUP
1870-1970
•	 Established E. John & Co as a produce and 
exchange brokers firm.
•	 Formed E. John, Thompson, White & Company 
Ltd. by merging with two London based tea 
brokers.
•	 Formed John Keell Thompson White Ltd by 
amalgamating with Keell and Waldock Ltd, a 
share and freight broking firm.
1971-1990
•	 Acquired Walkers Tours and Travels (Ceylon) Ltd.
•	 Renamed to John Keells Ltd, and became the 
first Rupee quoted public company.
•	 Acquired controlling stake in John Keells 
Limited and obtained quotation on the 
Colombo Stock Exchange.
1991-2000
•	 Acquired Whittalls Group of Companies and 
gained control of Ceylon Cold Stores, Ceylon 
Holiday Resorts, and Union Assurance.
•	 Issued Global Depository Receipts (GDRs) on 
the Luxembourg Stock Exchange, becoming 
the first Sri Lankan company to list overseas.
•	 Acquired 80-key Velidhu Resort Hotel, the first 
major overseas investment of the Group.
•	 Established Nations Trust Bank, a joint venture 
with the International Finance Corporation (IFC) 
and Central Finance Co. Ltd.
•	 Commenced operations at the South Asia 
Gateway Terminal (SAGT) at the Port of 
Colombo.
•	 Became the first Sri Lankan company to obtain 
a SL-AAA credit rating from Fitch.
2001-2010
•	 Acquired Asian Hotels and Properties.
•	 Established John Keells Social Responsibility 
Foundation, the corporate social responsibility 
(CSR) arm of the Group.
•	 Launched ‘Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts’, the hotel 
brand of the Group.
•	 Entered into business process outsourcing 
business through a joint venture with Raman 
Roy Associates.
•	 Acquired land lease on Dhonveli Beach and Spa 
and Ellaidhoo Tourist Resort in the Maldives.
•	 Renamed John Keells Holdings Ltd to John 
Keells Holdings PLC.
•	 JKH surpassed market capitalisation of USD one 
billion.
•	 Renamed to John Keells Ltd, and became the first 
Rupee quoted public company.
•	 Acquired controlling stake in John Keells Limited 
and obtained quotation on the CSE.
2011-2020
•	 JKH exceeded market capitalisation of USD two 
billion.
•	 Announced the 'Cinnamon Life Integrated Resort' 
project (now rebranded as ‘City of Dreams Sri 
Lanka’) and raised the necessary debt funding for 
the project, by way of the largest syndicated debt 
facility obtained by a local firm.
•	 Completed 150 years in business.
•	 Formally initiated OCTAVE, the Group's Data and 
Advanced Analytics Centre of Excellence, as a 
division.
2021 ONWARDS
•	 Launched ONE JKH brand with initiatives focused 
on Diversity, Equity and Inclusion.
•	 Signed a build, operate and transfer (BOT) 
agreement for the development of West Container 
Terminal-1 (WCT-1) at the Port of Colombo as a 
public private partnership (PPP) project with Adani 
Ports and Special Economic Zone Limited (APSEZ). 
Introduced 100 days Equal Parental Leave.
MANAGEMENT APPROACH
The continued success of the Group is 
dependent on its triple bottom line performance; 
providing economic value addition, financial 
value to its shareholders, payback on investment 
to its investors, payment of debt financing to its 
financiers and benefits to its employees, whilst 
also maintaining its social license to operate.
It is one of the commitments of the John 
Keells Group to deliver sustainable economic 
performance and growth to all its diverse 
stakeholders through sound financial 
management building on its wide asset base 
across industry groups. This has been built 
through a diversified approach and a solid 
foundation of stringent internal controls and a 
robust Enterprise Risk Management process.
ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE AND TAX 
STRATEGY
The Group’s economic performance, 
sustainability, and its financial capital 
management are of the greatest importance 
to its shareholders, its employees and other 
stakeholders. The Group’s continuous success 
depends on its triple bottom line performance; 
providing economic value addition, financial 
value to its shareholders, payment of debt 
financing to its financiers, payback on investment 
to its investors, payment of all applicable 
taxes and benefits to its employees and also 
maintaining its social license to operate, 
stimulating the local economy through its 
procurement practices and through social 
infrastructure projects to assist local communities. 
Economic value has been created for all 
stakeholders, by executing robust control 
frameworks, implementing best practices and 
adhering to a well-structured governance 
framework. The Group ensures that it conforms 
to all regulations and that all statutory payments 
are settled on time. Similarly, the Group ensures 
its operations are complying with its governance 
framework and strategy, which operate alongside 
its internal controls and risk management 
structure. The Group also continue to proactively 
contribute to the economy through investment 
in social infrastructure and local spending which 
results in benefits gained by the community. The 
Group’s economic value addition is monitored 
through Economic Value Added (EVA), which is 
further explained in the EVA section of the Annual 
Report 2023/24.
Performance-centric compensation culture 
through which employees are rewarded, results 
in high levels of efficiency and productivity and 
adopts a performance-driven culture, whilst 
the Group also ensures that legal obligations 
regarding employee benefits are met in all 
countries within which the Group operates. 
Periodic market checks carried out by the Group 
ensure that employees are remunerated in 
line with industry norms whilst compensation 
is also based on employee performance. Its 
performance driven compensation culture has 
led to the alignment of employee, management, 
and stakeholder interests. 
The Group encourages fair trade through the 
purchase of products and services from the 
local community and suppliers at fair prices, 
ensuring adherence to high standards of quality 
and upholding business ethics, whilst managing 
social and environmental impacts.
The Group contributes towards the positive 
stimulation of the Sri Lankan economy and 
the communities surrounding its operational 
sites through local sourcing, supporting the 
self-employed and promoting livelihoods for 
small scale suppliers. Furthermore, the Group 
contributes to the country’s economy through its 
tax and other statutory contributions and seeks 
to stimulate the economies within which it has 
business operations, through its commitment 
to developing and working with local suppliers, 
especially in the Consumer Foods, Retail and 
Leisure industry groups, which have fostered 
close ties with local communities through the 
purchasing of products and services at fair prices. 
POLICIES
Economic policy
The John Keells Group is committed to delivering 
sustainable economic performance and growth 
to all its diverse stakeholders.

367
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
DECADE AT A GLANCE
In Rs. Mn
31 March
2024
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
2018
2017
2016
2015
OPERATING RESULTS
Group revenue
 280,773  276,640  218,075  127,676  138,956 
 135,456 
 121,215 
 106,273 
 93,710 
 91,852 
EBIT
 37,683 
 40,392 
 34,359 
 7,931 
 15,508 
 20,198 
 28,155 
 23,324 
 20,192 
 19,226 
Finance cost
 (19,669)
 (17,803)
 (7,035)
 (4,669)
 (3,166)
 (2,722)
 (521)
 (436)
 (994)
 (668)
Share of results of equity accounted 
investees (net of tax) 
 10,129 
 7,574 
6,746
 4,159 
 4,466 
 4,727 
 3,596 
 3,303 
 2,781 
 2,778 
Profit before tax 
 18,014 
 22,589 
 27,324 
 5,445 
 12,403 
 18,616 
 27,634 
 22,888 
 19,198 
 18,557 
Tax expense
 (5,886)
 (3,693)
 (6,882)
 (1,494)
 (2,662)
 (2,378)
 (4,515)
 (4,771)
 (3,406)
 (2,812)
Profit after tax
 12,128 
 18,896 
 20,443 
 3,951 
 9,741 
 16,237 
 23,120 
 18,117 
 15,792 
 15,745 
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent
 11,249 
 18,174 
 20,213 
 4,772 
 9,414 
 15,254 
 21,021 
 16,275 
 14,070 
 14,348 
Non-controlling interests
 879 
 722 
 230 
 (821)
 327 
 983 
 2,099 
 1,842 
 1,722 
 1,397 
 12,128 
 18,896 
 20,443 
 3,951 
 9,741 
 16,237 
 23,120 
 18,117 
 15,792 
 15,745 
CAPITAL EMPLOYED
Stated capital
 90,602 
 73,188 
 73,188 
 63,102 
 62,881 
 62,806 
 62,802 
 62,790 
 58,702 
 50,703 
Capital reserves and other components 
of equity
 136,453  146,091  129,011 
 72,403 
 66,085 
 58,646 
 49,852 
 38,652 
 28,715 
 24,501 
Revenue reserves
 130,812  121,743  109,087 
 90,652 
 87,885 
 82,834 
 87,266 
 77,193 
 67,565 
 62,594 
 357,867  341,022  311,286  226,157  216,851 
 204,286 
 199,920 
 178,635 
 154,982 
 137,798 
Non-controlling interest
 19,609 
 19,396 
 18,805
 16,830 
 26,872 
 26,072 
 24,944 
 15,696 
 13,499 
 12,279 
Total equity
 377,476  360,418  330,091  242,987  243,723 
 230,358 
 224,864 
 194,331 
 168,481 
 150,077 
Total debt
 246,065  264,060  268,228  172,904  100,907 
 54,513 
 29,722 
 22,766 
 20,750 
 23,934 
 623,541  624,478  598,319  415,891  344,630 
 284,871 
 254,586 
 217,097 
 189,231 
 174,011 
ASSETS EMPLOYED
Property, plant and equipment (PP&E)
 382,989  362,097  124,348  113,077  111,534 
 97,688 
 87,260 
 64,396 
 52,737 
 49,563 
Non-current assets other than PP&E
 214,092  199,604  354,518  257,226  204,360 
 170,687 
 136,427 
 107,912 
 93,376 
 78,030 
Current assets
 174,110  182,806  238,929  166,491  121,050 
 95,421 
 98,762 
 104,964 
 94,863 
 90,493 
Liabilities net of debt
 (147,650)  (120,028)  (119,476)  (120,903)
 (92,314)
 (78,925)
 (67,862)
 (60,175)
 (51,745)
 (44,075)
 623,541  624,478  598,319  415,891  344,630 
 284,871 
 254,587 
 217,097 
 189,231 
 174,011 
CASH FLOW
Net cash flows from operating activities
 32,751
 11,444 
30,440
13,825
 (10,350)
(4,743)
 16,012 
 21,020 
 20,513 
 20,855 
Net cash flows from / (used in) investing 
activities
 (60,081)
 (78,889)
39,363
 (44,944)
 (27,039)
 (8,452)
 (16,640)
 (17,670)
 (9,567)
 (1,255)
 Net cash flows from / (used in) financing 
activities
 (3,040)
 (26,810)
 31,693 
 55,427 
 18,431 
 (11,000)
 (4,587)
 (4,105)
 (7,717)
 (4,838)
Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash 
equivalents
 (30,370)
 (94,254)  101,495 
 24,308 
 (18,959)
 (14,709)
 (5,215)
 (755)
 3,229 
 14,762 
KEY INDICATORS
Basic earnings per share (Rs.)
 8.06 
 13.12 
 15.13 
 3.62 
 7.14 
 11.13 
 15.2 
 11.9 
 10.5 
 12.6 
Interest cover (no. of times)
 1.9 
 2.3 
4.9
 1.7 
 4.9 
 7.8 
 54 
 52.8 
51.5
 27.7 
Net assets per share* (Rs.) 
 238.8 
227.5
207.7
150.9
144.7
136.3
133.4
119.2
103.4
91.9
Enterprise value (EV) (Rs.)
 450,008 
357,609
311,951
 244,679  186,236 
 210,020 
 187,926 
136,022
 124,182 
 155,675 
EV / EBITDA
 11 
 7.7 
 10.7 
 15.7 
 9.2 
 8.5 
 5.8 
 5.0 
 5.0 
 6.6 
ROE (%)
 3.2 
 5.6 
 7.5 
 2.2 
 4.5 
 7.5 
 11.1 
 9.8 
 9.6 
 11.0 
Debt / equity ratio (%)
 65.2 
 73.3 
81.3
 71.2 
 41.4 
 23.7 
 13.2 
 11.7 
 12.3 
 15.9 
Net debt excl. leases (cash)/Equity (%)
33.7
 35.9
 23.5 
 20.0 
 14.0 
 1.9 
 (14.9)
 (28.5)
 (30.8)
 (28.8)
Dividend payout (Rs.Mn)
 2,080 
 2,770 
 2,012 
 1,978 
 4,614 
 8,186 
 8,325 
 7,280 
 8,038 
 3,476 
Current ratio (no. of times)
 1.3 
 2.0 
1.8
 2.3 
 2.1 
 1.7 
 3.0 
 3.7 
 4.0 
 2.6 
Market price per share unadjusted (Rs.)
 194.0 
 140.0 
145.0
 148.5 
 115.4 
 156.0 
 159.6 
 137.9 
 148.0 
 199.4 
Market price per share diluted (Rs.)
 194.0 
 140.0 
145.0
 148.5 
 115.4 
 156.0 
 159.6 
 137.9 
 129.5 
 152.7 
Revenue growth rate (%)
 1.5 
 26.9 
70.8
 (8.1)
 2.6 
 11.8 
14.1
13.4
1.6
5.9
USD closing rate (Rs.)
 300.4 
 329.5 
305.0
 200.3 
 189.6 
 175.5 
155.9
151.9
147.7
133.5
USD average rate (Rs.)
 318.1 
 360.4 
208.3
 189.0 
 179.4 
 168.6 
153.6
148.0
139.2
131.2
* 	
Net assets per share has been calculated, for all periods, based on the net assets of the Group and number of shares in issue as at 31 March 2024.

368 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
ECONOMIC VALUE STATEMENT
In Rs. Mn.
For the year ended 
31 March
Transportation
Consumer Foods
Retail
Leisure
Property
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
Direct economic value 
generated
 Revenue 
 51,556 
 74,538 
 35,920 
 34,143 
 124,795 
 109,006 
 51,441 
 43,032 
 2,466 
 2,824 
 Finance income 
 330 
 265 
 1,182 
 884 
 77 
 315 
 4,311 
 1,726 
 528 
 519 
 Share of results of 
associates 
 6,207 
 5,775 
 - 
 - 
 (24)
 - 
 25 
 (20)
 (409)
 (1,128)
 Profit on sale of assets 
& other income 
 203 
 192 
 856 
 832 
 3,367 
 2,396 
 1,047 
 785 
 440 
 14 
 Valuation gain/loss 
on IP 
 - 
 - 
 17 
 24 
 5 
 (3)
 98 
 201 
 233 
 525 
 58,296 
 80,770 
 37,975 
 35,883 
 128,220 
 111,714 
 56,922 
 45,724 
 3,258 
 2,754 
 Economic value 
distributed 
 Operating costs 
 48,230 
 66,678 
 24,957 
 25,805 
 109,980 
 96,568 
 33,401 
 26,441 
 2,521 
 3,406 
 Employee wages & 
benefits 
 834 
 756 
 4,751 
 3,948 
 6,812 
 5,537 
 9,489 
 7,771 
 861 
 1,193 
 Payments to providers 
of funds 
 1,151 
 3,447 
 3,423 
 2,630 
 4,307 
 5,097 
 4,541 
 4,527 
 183 
 330 
 Payments to 
government 
 305 
 572 
 1,824 
 968 
 1,954 
 147 
 1,067 
 1,205 
 41 
 79 
 Community 
investments 
 13 
 16 
 31 
 27 
 38 
 29 
 20 
 24 
 1 
 1 
 50,533 
 71,469 
 34,986 
 33,378 
 123,091 
 107,378 
 48,518 
 39,968 
 3,607 
 5,009 
 Economic value 
retained 
 Depreciation 
 187 
 187 
 1,102 
 1,026 
 1,744 
 1,642 
 3,120 
 3,080 
 73 
 63 
 Amortisation 
 111 
 84 
 133 
 60 
 1,562 
 1,513 
 2,535 
 2,847 
 27 
 27 
 Profit after dividends 
 7,465 
 9,030 
 1,754 
 1,419 
 1,823 
 1,181 
 2,749 
 (171)
 (449)
 (2,345)
 Retained for 
reinvestment / 
growth 
 7,763 
 9,301 
 2,989 
 2,505 
 5,129 
 4,336 
 8,404 
 5,756 
 (349)
 (2,255)
Above data has been derived from the audited Financial Statements that were prepared based on Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRS/LKAS). 
This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option

369
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Financial Services
Others
Total
Eliminations/
Adjustments
Group Total
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
%
2023
%
 18,666 
 16,204 
 9,519 
 10,537 
 294,363 
 290,284 
 (13,590)
 (13,644)
 280,773  88.17 
 276,640  87.75 
 13,041 
 9,102 
 17,205 
 27,362 
 36,674 
 40,173 
 (14,107)
 (13,273)
 22,567 
 7.09 
 26,900 
 8.53 
 4,330 
 2,947 
 - 
 - 
 10,129 
 7,574 
 - 
 - 
 10,129 
 3.18 
 7,574 
 2.40 
 28 
 93 
 291 
 246 
 6,232 
 4,558 
 (1,722)
 (1,297)
 4,510 
 1.42 
 3,261 
 1.03 
 - 
 - 
 97 
 132 
 450 
 879 
 - 
 - 
 450 
 0.14 
 879 
 0.28 
 36,065 
 28,346 
 27,112 
 38,277 
 347,848 
 343,468 
 (29,419)
 (28,214)
 318,429  100.00 
 315,254  100.00 
 18,933 
 19,328 
 18,053 
 16,420 
 256,075 
 254,646 
 (16,731)
 (17,708)
 239,344  75.16 
 236,938  75.16 
 2,102 
 1,670 
 3,798 
 2,655 
 28,647 
 23,530 
 - 
 - 
 28,647 
 9.00 
 23,530 
 7.46 
 5,503 
 323 
 14,128 
 12,679 
 33,236 
 29,033 
 (10,608)
 (7,736)
 22,628 
 7.11 
 21,297 
 6.76 
 1,509 
 1,079 
 276 
 2,457 
 6,976 
 6,507 
 - 
 - 
 6,976 
 2.19 
 6,507 
 2.06 
 11 
 6 
 88 
 190 
 202 
 293 
 - 
 - 
 202 
 0.06 
 293 
 0.09 
 28,058 
 22,406 
 36,343 
 34,401 
 325,136 
 314,009 
 (27,339)
 (25,444)
 297,797  93.52 
 288,565  91.53 
 118 
 119 
 201 
 164 
 6,545 
 6,281 
 - 
 - 
 6,545 
 2.06 
 6,281 
 1.99 
 442 
 420 
 109 
 53 
 4,919 
 5,004 
 - 
 - 
 4,919 
 1.54 
 5,004 
 1.59 
 7,447 
 5,401 
 (9,541)
 3,659 
 11,248 
 18,174 
 (2,080)
 (2,770)
 9,168 
 2.88 
 15,404 
 4.89 
 8,007 
 5,940 
 (9,231)
 3,876 
 22,712 
 29,459 
 (2,080)
 (2,770)
 20,632 
 6.48 
 26,689 
 8.47 

370 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
INDICATIVE US DOLLAR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
INCOME STATEMENT
FOR INFORMATION PURPOSES ONLY
In USD '000s
GROUP
COMPANY
For the year ended 31 March
2024
2023
2024
2023
Continuing operations 
Revenue from contracts with customers
 873,297 
 791,160 
 9,708 
 7,720 
Revenue from Insurance Contracts
 61,366 
 48,414 
 - 
 - 
Total Revenue
 934,663 
 839,574 
 9,708 
 7,720 
Cost of sales
 (753,964)
 (689,500)
 (5,935)
 (3,541)
Gross profit
 180,699
 150,074
 3,773
 4,179
Dividend income
 - 
 - 
 38,293 
 32,276 
Other operating income
 15,015 
 9,896 
 417 
 125 
Selling and distribution expenses
 (33,498)
 (25,087)
 - 
 - 
Administrative expenses
 (83,795)
 (66,549)
 (7,435)
 (6,334)
Other operating expenses
 (27,258)
 (29,820)
 (288)
 (2,271)
Results from operating activities
 51,163
 38,514
 34,760
 27,975
Finance cost
 (65,476)
 (54,030)
 (39,849)
 (26,643)
Finance income
 75,125 
 81,638 
 19,265 
 49,554 
Change in insurance contract liabilities
 (36,063)
 (23,218)
 - 
 - 
Change in fair value of investment property
 1,498 
 2,666 
 - 
 - 
Share of results of equity accounted investees (net of tax)
 33,718 
 22,985 
 - 
 - 
Profit before tax 
 59,965 
 68,555 
 14,176 
 50,886 
Tax expense
 (19,595)
 (11,209)
 (21)
 (6,245)
Profit for the year 
 40,370 
 57,346 
 14,155 
 44,641 
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent
 37,443 
 55,154 
Non-controlling interests
 2,927 
 2,192 
 40,370 
 57,346 
Earnings per share
Basic earnings per ordinary share
 0.03 
0.04
Diluted earnings per ordinary share
 0.03 
0.04
This information does not constitute a full set of financial statements in compliance with SLFRS/LKAS. The above should be read together with the 
Auditors' opinion and the notes to the financial statements. Exchange rates prevailing at year end USD/Rs. 300.4 (2023 - 329.5) have been used to 
convert the income statement and statement of financial position.

371
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION 
FOR INFORMATION PURPOSES ONLY
In USD '000s
GROUP
COMPANY
As at 31 March
2024
2023
2024
2023
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment
 1,274,929 
 1,098,929 
 391 
 426 
Right- of - use assets
 162,093 
 164,446 
 407 
Investment properties
 104,923 
 100,241 
 - 
 - 
Intangible assets
 21,069 
 17,580 
 116 
 191 
Investments in subsidiaries 
 - 
 - 
 725,386 
 601,137 
Investments in equity accounted investees
 160,290 
 116,802 
 71,708 
 49,219 
Non-current financial assets
 247,942 
 194,103 
 11,690 
 13,369 
Deferred tax assets
 5,713 
 7,837 
 - 
 - 
Other non-current assets
 10,662 
 4,769 
 317 
 382 
 1,987,621 
 1,704,707 
 810,015 
 664,724 
Current assets
Inventories
 130,844 
 118,648 
 - 
 - 
Trade and other receivables
 94,465 
 65,275 
 1,534 
 630 
Amounts due from related parties
 2,244 
 964 
 4,297 
 3,574 
Other current assets
 34,303 
 44,220 
 10,468 
 5,146 
Short term investments
 266,414 
 249,535 
 192,428 
 174,426 
Cash in hand and at bank
 51,325 
 76,155 
 1,854 
 24,983 
 579,595 
 554,797 
 210,581 
 208,759 
Total assets
 2,567,216
 2,259,504
 1,020,596
 873,483
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent
Stated capital
 301,606 
 222,118 
 301,606 
 222,118 
Revenue reserves
 435,460 
 369,479 
 345,983 
 308,974 
Other components of equity
 454,237 
 443,372 
 39,297 
 54,793 
 1,191,303 
 1,034,969 
 686,886 
 585,885 
Non-controlling interest
 65,278 
 58,866 
 - 
 - 
Total equity
 1,256,581
 1,093,835
 686,886
 585,885
Non-current liabilities
Insurance contract liabilities
 231,394 
 178,778 
 - 
 - 
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
 423,334 
 484,913 
 183,237 
 203,058 
Lease liabilities
 93,477 
 97,276 
 363 
 - 
Deferred tax liabilities
 70,647 
 59,750 
 9,461 
 8,625 
Employee benefit liabilities
 11,953 
 7,768 
 1,088 
 667 
Non-current financial liabilities
 37,907 
 61,023 
 33,960 
 55,782 
Other non-current liabilities
 2,049 
 869 
 - 
 - 
 870,761 
 890,377 
 228,109 
 268,132 
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables
 141,753 
 90,641 
 4,873 
 1,916 
Amounts due to related parties
 1,494 
 11 
 296 
 177 
Income tax liabilities
 6,074 
 5,459 
 860 
 2,696 
Short term borrowings
 70,115 
 26,409 
 46,302 
 3,945 
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
 77,287 
 38,966 
 25,533 
 10,152 
Lease liabilities
 12,929 
 6,855 
 23 
 - 
Other current liabilities
 22,199 
 15,756 
 71 
 54 
Bank overdrafts
 108,023 
 91,195 
 27,643 
 526 
 439,874 
 275,292 
 105,601 
 19,466 
Total equity and liabilities
 2,567,216 
 2,259,504 
 1,020,596 
 873,483 
This information does not constitute a full set of financial statements in compliance with SLFRS/LKAS. The above should be read together with the 
Auditors' opinion and the notes to the financial statements. Exchange rates prevailing at year end USD/Rs. 300.4 (2023 - 329.5) have been used to 
convert the income statement and statement of financial position.

372 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
GROUP REAL ESTATE PORTFOLIO
Owning company and location
Land in acres
Net book value
Number of
 Buildings
Buildings
in (sq. ft.)
Freehold
Leasehold
2024
Rs.’000s
2023
Rs.’000s
John Keells PLC
 1,250 
	 56/1, 58, 58 1/1 Kirulapone Avenue, Colombo 5.
 - 
 - 
0.08
 - 
 1,250 
Keells Realtors Ltd
 	 427 & 429, Ferguson Road, Colombo 15.
2
28,125
1.22
 - 
 425,578 
 424,026 
Mackinnon Keells Ltd
 	 Leyden Bastian Road, York Street, Colombo 01.
1
30,793
0.45
 - 
 805,751 
 736,809 
Union Assurance PLC
	 No 20, St. Michaels' Road, Colombo 03.
1
57,916
0.58
 - 
 2,710,771 
 2,437,199 
Vauxhall Developments (Pvt) Ltd 
 	 No.199,Union Place, Colombo 2 and 148, Vauxhall Street, 
Colombo 2.
7
 209,484 
3.56
 - 
 10,537,840 
 10,237,857 
 	 No.188, 188/1, 188/2, 190, 192 Vauxhall Street, Colombo 
2 and 42, Dawson Street, Colombo 2.
 - 
 - 
2.09
 - 
 5,945,281 
 6,019,200 
	 No. 186, 186/3 Vauxhall Street, Colombo 2.
 - 
 - 
3.72
 - 
 10,875,358 
 10,726,380 
Waterfront Properties (Pvt) Ltd 
No 5, Justice Akbar Mawatha, Slave Island, Colombo 2
6
583,000
7.10
2.96
 17,112,000 
 16,903,000
Glennie Properties (Pvt) Ltd 
 	 No.82, Glennie Street, Colombo 02.
 - 
 - 
0.08
 - 
 218,160 
 193,920
17
909,318
18.88
2.96
 48,631,989 
47,679,641
PROPERTIES OUTSIDE COLOMBO
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC
 	 Kaduwela.
22
350,569
27.35
 - 
 2,599,130 
 2,280,245 
 	 Trincomalee.
3
18,102
1.06
 - 
 358,353 
 341,394 
 	 Kotagala
 6 
 13,354 
 - 
 0.71 
 109,430 
 60,475 
Facets (Pvt) Ltd
	 Ahungalla.
-
 - 
 6.31 
 - 
 554,400
 529,200
John Keells PLC
 	 17/1, Temple Road, Ekala, Ja-Ela.
1
 1,200 
3.77
 - 
 513,000 
 483,000
John Keells Properties Ja-Ela (Pvt) Ltd
 	 No 525, Colombo Road, Kapuwatta, Ja-Ela.
-
-
 6.60 
 - 
 - 
 2,068,000
John Keells Warehousing (Pvt) Ltd
 	 Muthurajawela.
3
146,743
 - 
 6.19 
 764,836 
 576,643
Keells Food Products PLC
 	 41, Temple Road, Ekala, Ja-Ela.
8
52,698
 3.00 
 1.00 
 509,174 
 504,653 
 	 Gonawala, Pannala.
4
41,166
 3.86 
 4.08 
 387,164 
 379,190 
Logipark International (Pvt) Ltd 
 	 Muthurajawela.
 - 
 - 
 - 
 9.00 
 2,773,515 
 2,864,152
Rajawella Holdings Ltd
	 Mahaberiatenna, Kandy.
4
 59,922 
 - 
 367.83 
 750,808 
 766,828
Tea Smallholder Factories PLC
 	 Broadlands.
14
 62,765 
 4.14 
 - 
 147,620 
 133,566 
 	 Halwitigala.
14
 53,999 
 9.61 
 - 
 122,243 
 106,108 
 	 Hingalgoda.
26
 65,686 
 12.04 
 - 
 153,772 
 134,700 
 	 Karawita.
12
 79,244 
 - 
 4.98 
 142,474 
 142,474 
 	 Kurupanawa.
22
 55,728 
 12.12 
 - 
 156,875 
 147,076 
 	 Neluwa.
18
 53,266 
 3.74 
 - 
 124,341 
 112,971 
 	 New Panawenna.
8
 46,389 
 10.59 
 - 
 139,998 
 102,030 
 	 Peliyagoda.
1
 31,629 
 - 
 0.98 
 503,000 
 460,786 
166
 1,132,460 
 104.19 
 394.77 
 10,810,133 
 12,193,491 

373
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Owning company and location
Land in acres
Net book value
Number of
 Buildings
Buildings
in (sq. ft.)
Freehold
Leasehold
2024
Rs.’000s
2023
Rs.’000s
The Colombo Ice Company (Pvt) Ltd
	 Avissawella.
9
 182,937 
 - 
 9.30 
 1,835,380 
 1,836,938
J K Thudella Properties (Pvt) Ltd
 	 Tudella, Ja-Ela.
 - 
 - 
 12.11 
 - 
 726,715 
 678,265
Union Assurance PLC
	 No 06,Rajapihilla Road, Kurunegala.
1
27,412
 0.20 
 - 
 418,000 
 425,117
Whittall Boustead Ltd
 	 150, Badulla Road, Nuwara Eliya.
1
4,343
 0.46 
 - 
 213,319 
 208,983
177
 1,347,152 
116.96
404.07
 14,003,547 
 15,342,794
HOTEL PROPERTIES
Asian Hotels and Properties PLC
 	 Cinnamon Grand Premises, Colombo 2.
4
736,351
 6.64 
 - 
 33,499,217 
 32,076,435 
 	 Crescat Boulevard, Colombo 2.
1
145,196
 1.39 
 - 
 2,467,893 
 2,639,839 
Ahungalla Holiday Resort (Pvt) Ltd
	 Ahungalla.
 - 
 - 
 6.51 
 - 
 354,800 
 336,200
Beruwala Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
	 Cinnamon Bey, Beruwala.
9
 453,136 
 10.82 
 - 
 5,434,166 
 5,208,233
Ceylon Holiday Resorts Ltd
 	 Bentota Beach Hotel, Bentota.
8
 308,658 
 2.02 
 11.92 
 4,847,516 
 4,768,101
Fantasea World Investments (Pte) Ltd
 	 Chaaya Lagoon Hakuraa Huraa, Republic of Maldives.
163
 236,730 
 - 
 18.90 
 10,997,044 
 12,632,232
Habarana Lodge Ltd
 	 Cinnamon Lodge, Habarana.
79
101,162
-
 36.09 
 898,573 
 864,856
Habarana Walk Inn Ltd
 	 Chaaya Village, Habarana.
84
91,369
 - 
 9.34 
 361,551 
 370,369
Hikkaduwa Holiday Resort (Pvt) Ltd
 	 Chaaya Tranz, Hikkaduwa.
6
223,712
 0.29 
 4.43 
 2,092,801 
 1,935,297
Kandy Walk Inn Ltd
 	 Cinnamon Citadel, Kandy.
6
128,302
 6.29 
 - 
 1,937,392 
 1,811,231
Resort Hotels Ltd
 	 Medway Estate, Nilaveli.
-
-
 41.73 
 - 
 1,116,628 
 1,066,000
Trans Asia Hotels PLC
 	 Cinnamon Lake Side, Colombo 2.
2
371,611
 - 
 7.65 
 7,604,702 
 7,082,927
Tranquility (Pte) Ltd
 	 Chaaya Island Dhonveli, Republic of Maldives.
146
261,327
 - 
 17.16 
 24,712,514 
 27,636,699
 	 Velifushi, Republic of Maldives.
145
 263,512 
 - 
 13.22 
 6,226,825 
 8,072,854
Travel Club (Pte) Ltd
 	 Chaaya Reef Ellaidhoo, Republic of Maldives.
115
178,294
 - 
 13.80 
 5,068,517 
 6,519,327
Trinco Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
 	 Chaaya Blu, Trincomalee.
9
94,931
 13.24 
 - 
 1,748,602 
 1,684,907
Trinco Walk Inn Ltd
 	 Club Oceanic, Trincomalee.
-
 - 
14.15
 - 
 419,467 
 393,467
Wirawila Walk Inn Ltd
 	 Randunukelle Estate, Wirawila.
-
 - 
 25.15 
 - 
 105,716 
 100,718
Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd
 	 Cinnamon Wild, Tissamaharama.
78
81,909
 - 
9.34
 617,992 
 618,025 
855
3,676,200
 128.23 
 141.85 
 110,511,916 
 115,817,717 
Improvements to Keells Super outlets on leased hold 
properties and lease rentals paid in advance
134
1,843,174
 - 
 99.64 
 18,550,031 
 17,501,983 
Consolidated Value of Land and Buildings, Right of Use 
Assets and Investment Property
 1,183 
 7,775,844 
264.07
648.52
 191,697,483 
 196,342,135 

374 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
GLOSSARY
ACCRUAL BASIS 
Recording revenues and expenses in the period 
in which they are earned or incurred regardless 
of whether cash is received or disbursed in that 
period. 
ASSET TURNOVER 
Revenue including equity accounted investees 
divided by average total assets. 
BETA 
Covariance between daily JKH share return and 
market return divided by variance of daily market 
return, over a 5-year period. 
CAPITAL EMPLOYED 
Shareholders’ funds plus non-controlling interests 
and debt including lease liabilities. 
CAPITAL STRUCTURE LEVERAGE (CSL) 
Average total assets divided by average 
shareholders’ equity. 
CASH EARNINGS PER SHARE 
Profit attributable to equity holders of the 
parent adjusted for non-cash items minus share 
of profits of equity accounted investees plus 
dividends from equity accounted investees 
divided by the weighted average number of 
ordinary shares in issue during the period. 
COMMON EARNINGS LEVERAGE (CEL) 
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 
divided by profit after tax. 
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 
A condition or situation existing as at the date 
of the Report due to past events, where the 
financial effect is not recognised because: 
1. 	The obligation is crystallised by the occurrence 
or non-occurrence of one or more future 
events or,
2.	 A probable outflow of economic resources is 
not expected or, 
3. 	It is unable to be measured with sufficient 
reliability. 
CURRENT RATIO 
Current assets divided by current liabilities. 
DEBT/EQUITY RATIO 
Debt as a percentage of shareholders’ funds and 
non-controlling interests. 
DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPS)
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 
divided by the weighted average number 
of ordinary shares in issue during the period 
adjusted for options granted but not exercised.
DIVIDEND PAYABLE 
Final dividend per share multiplied by the latest 
available total number of shares as at the date of 
the Report. 
DIVIDEND PAYOUT RATIO 
Dividend paid as a percentage of Group profits 
attributed to equity holders. 
DIVIDEND YIELD 
Dividends adjusted for changes in number of 
shares in issue as a percentage of the share price 
(diluted) at the end of the period. 
EARNINGS PER SHARE (BASIC) 
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 
divided by the weighted average number of 
ordinary shares in issue during the period. 
EBIT 
Earnings before interest expense and tax 
(includes other operating income). Note that 
EBIT includes interest income, fair value gains 
and losses on investment property, depreciation 
and amortisation, and share of results of equity 
accounted investees, but excludes exchange 
gains or losses (other than that of equity 
accounted investees). 
EBITDA
Earnings before interest expense, tax, 
depreciation and amortisation (includes other 
operating income). Note that EBITDA includes 
interest income, fair value gains and losses on 
investment property and share of results of equity 
accounted investees, but excludes exchange 
gains or losses (other than that of equity 
accounted investees). 
EBIT MARGIN 
EBIT divided by revenue inclusive of share of 
equity accounted investees. 
EFFECTIVE RATE OF TAXATION 
Tax expense divided by profit before tax. 
ENTERPRISE VALUE (EV) 
Market capitalisation plus net debt/(net cash). 
INTEREST COVER 
Consolidated profit before interest and tax over 
interest expense. 
LIABILITIES TO TANGIBLE NET WORTH 
Total non-current and current liabilities including 
contingent liabilities divided by tangible net 
worth. 
LONG-TERM DEBT TO TOTAL DEBT 
Long-term loans and similar obligations as a 
percentage of total debt. 
MARKET CAPITALISATION 
Number of shares in issue at the end of the 
period multiplied by the market price at the end 
of the period. 
NET ASSETS 
Total assets minus current liabilities, long-term 
liabilities, and non-controlling interests. 
NET ASSETS PER SHARE 
Net assets as at a particular financial year end 
divided by the number of shares in issue as at the 
current financial year end. 
NET DEBT (CASH) 
Total debt minus cash in hand and at bank 
minus short term investments minus deposits 
with a maturity between one and three years 
held at the Holding Company, excluding short-
term investments under the life fund of Union 
Assurance (UA), restricted regulatory fund at 
UA and customer advances at the Property 
Development sector, if any.
NET PROFIT MARGIN 
Profit after tax attributable to equity holders of 
the parent divided by total revenue including 
equity accounted investees. 
PRICE EARNINGS RATIO 
Market price per share over earnings per share. 
PRICE TO BOOK RATIO 
Market price per share over net asset value per 
share. 
PRICE TO CASH EARNINGS 
Market price per share divided by diluted cash 
earnings per share. 
PUBLIC HOLDING 
Percentage of shares held by the public 
calculated as per the Colombo Stock Exchange 
Listing Rules as at the date of the Report. 
QUICK RATIO 
Cash plus short-term investments plus 
receivables, divided by current liabilities. 
RECURRING EBITDA/ RECURRING EBIT/ 
RECURRING PBT / RECURRING PAT/ 
RECURRING PAT TO EQUITY HOLDERS OF 
THE PARENT 
Profit, as applicable, adjusted for the one-off 
impacts discussed under the Financial and 
Manufactured Capital Review section of the 
Report: Page 51. 
RETURN ON ASSETS 
Profit after tax divided by the average total assets. 
RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED (ROCE) 
EBIT as a percentage of average capital employed. 
RETURN ON EQUITY (ROE) 
Profit attributable to shareholders as a percentage 
of average shareholders’ funds. 
SCOPE 1 AND SCOPE 2 
The Green House Gas (GHG) Protocol has 
established a classification of GHG emissions 
called ‘Scope’: Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3. 
The GHG emissions standard published by the 
International Organisation for Standardisation 
(ISO), ‘ISO 14064’, represents these classifications 
of Scope with the following terms: 
1. Direct GHG emissions = Scope I 
2. Energy indirect GHG emissions = Scope 2 
SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS 
Total of stated capital, other components of 
equity and revenue reserves. 
TANGIBLE NET WORTH 
Total equity less intangible assets and deferred 
tax assets. 
TOTAL DEBT 
Long and short-term loans, including overdrafts 
and the liability arising out of the issue of 
convertible debentures, but excluding lease 
liabilities. Instances where total debt includes 
lease liabilities and/or excludes the liability arising 
out of the issue of convertible debentures are 
explicitly mentioned. 
TOTAL EQUITY 
Shareholders’ funds plus non-controlling interest. 
WORKING CAPITAL 
Current assets minus current liabilities

375
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT
INTRODUCTION
DNV Business Assurance India Private Limited 
(‘DNV’), has been commissioned by John 
Keells Holdings PLC (Corporate Identity 
Number PQ14, hereafter referred to as ‘JKH’ or 
‘the Company’) to undertake an independent 
assurance of the Company’s sustainability/
non-financial disclosures in its Annual Report 
(hereafter referred as ‘Report’). The disclosures 
have been prepared by JKH in accordance ” 
to requirements of Global Reporting Initiative 
(GRI) sustainability reporting standards 2021”.
DNV carried out assurance engagement in 
accordance with DNV’s VeriSustain protocol, 
V6.0, which is based on our professional 
experience and international assurance 
practice, and the international standard in 
Assurance Engagements, ISAE 3000 (revised) - 
Assurance Engagements other than Audits or 
Reviews of Historical Financial Information or 
AccountAbility’s AA1000 Assurance Standard 
(AA1000AS v3). DNV’s Verisustain Protocol has 
been developed in accordance with the most 
widely accepted reporting and assurance 
standards. The intended user of this assurance 
statement is the Management of JKH (‘the 
Management’).
DNV carried out Limited Level of assurance/
Type 2 Moderate level of assurance for JKH 
Sustainability disclosures in its Annual Report. 
We planned and performed our work to 
obtain the evidence we considered sufficient 
to provide a basis for our conclusion, so that 
the risk of this conclusion being in error is 
reduced, but not reduced completely.
We do not express any conclusion, on any 
other information that may be published 
outside of the Report and/or on Company’s 
website for the current reporting period.
RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE MANAGEMENT OF 
JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC AND OF THE 
ASSURANCE PROVIDER
The Management of JKH has the sole 
responsibility for the preparation of the Report 
and is responsible for all information disclosed 
in the Report. The company is responsible 
for maintaining processes and procedures 
for collecting, analyzing and reporting the 
information and also, ensuring the quality and 
consistency of the information presented in 
the Report. JKH is also responsible for ensuring 
the maintenance and integrity of its website 
and any referenced disclosures on their 
website.
In performing this assurance work, DNV’s 
responsibility is to the Management of the 
Company; however, this statement represents 
our independent opinion and is intended to 
inform the outcome of the assurance to the 
stakeholders of the Company.
SCOPE, BOUNDARY AND LIMITATIONS
The agreed scope of work included 
information on non- financial performance 
which were disclosed in the Report 
prepared by JKH based on GRI Topic-specific 
Standards for the identified material topics 
for the activities undertaken by the Company 
during the reporting period 01/04/2023 to 
31/03/2024. The reported topic boundaries of 
non-financial performance are based on the 
internal and external materiality assessment 
covering Company’s operations as brought 
out in the report.
Boundary covers the performance of JKH 
operations in Sri Lanka that fall under the 
direct operational control of the Company’s 
Legal structure. Based on the agreed scope 
with the Company, the boundary of assurance 
covers sites from the following business 
units; Information technology, retail, hotels, 
consumer foods, transportation and plantation 
(Refer Annexure II).
Inherent Limitation(s):
DNV’s assurance engagements are based on 
the assumption that the data and information 
provided by the Company to us
as part of our review have been provided in 
good faith, are true, and is free from material 
misstatements.
The assurance scope has the following 
limitations:
•	 The assurance engagement considers an 
uncertainty of ±5% based on materiality 
threshold for estimation/measurement 
errors and omissions.
•	 DNV has not been involved in evaluation 
or assessment of any financial data/
performance of the company. DNV opinion 
on specific indicators (ref- all sections of 
core indicators where currency; LKR has 
been applied)relies on the third party 
audited financial reports of the Company.
DNV does not take any responsibility of the 
financial data reported in the audited financial 
reports of the Company.
•	 The assessment is limited to data and 
information within the defined Reporting 
Period. Any data outside this period is not 
considered within the scope of assurance.
•	 Data outside the operations specified in 
the assurance boundary is excluded from 
the assurance, unless explicitly mentioned 
otherwise in this statement.
•	 The assurance does not cover the 
Company's statements that express 
opinions, claims, beliefs, aspirations, 
expectations, aims, or future intentions. 
Additionally, assertions related to 
Intellectual Property Rights and other 
competitive issues are beyond the scope of 
this assurance.
•	 The assessment does not include a review 
of the Company's strategy or other related 
linkages expressed in the Report. These 
aspects are not within the scope of the 
assurance engagement.
•	 The assurance does not extend to mapping 
the Report with reporting frameworks 
other than those specifically mentioned. 
Any assessments or comparisons with 
frameworks beyond the specified ones are 
not considered in this engagement.
•	 Aspects of the Report that fall outside the 
mentioned scope and boundary are not 
subject to assurance. The assessment is 
limited to the defined parameters.
•	 The assurance engagement does not 
include a review of legal compliances. 
Compliance with legal requirements is not 
within the scope of this assurance, and 
the Company is responsible for ensuring 
adherence to relevant laws.
DNV expressly disclaims any liability or co-
responsibility for any decision a person or an 
entity may make based on this Independent 
Assurance Statement.
ASSURANCE PROCESS
As part of the assurance process, a multi-
disciplinary team of assurance specialists 
performed assurance work for selected sites of 
JKH. We adopted a risk-based approach, that 
is, we concentrated our assurance efforts on 
the issues of high material relevance to the 
Company’s business and its key stakeholders. 
We carried out the following activities:
DNV Headquarters, Veritasveien 1, P.O.Box 300, 1322 Høvik, Norway. Tel: +47 67 57 99 00. www.dnv.com
DNV-2004-ASR-695670	
PRJN-679475

376 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
Limited Level of Assurance
Reviewed the disclosures in the report. Our focus included general disclosures, management 
processes, principle wise performance (essential indicators, and leadership indicators) and any 
other key metrics specified under the reporting framework.
Understanding the key systems, processes and controls for collecting, managing and reporting 
the non-financial disclosures in report.
Walk-through of key data sets. Understand and test, on a sample basis, the processes used to 
adhere to and evaluate adherence to the reporting principles.
Collect and evaluate documentary evidence and management representations supporting 
adherence to the reporting principles.
Interviews with the senior managers responsible for management of disclosures. We were free 
to choose interviewees and interviewed those with overall responsibility of monitoring, data 
collation and reporting the selected indicators.
DNV audit team conducted on-site audits for corporate offices and sites. Sample based 
assessment of site-specific data disclosures was carried out. We were free to choose sites for 
conducting our assessment.
Reviewed the process of reporting as defined in the assessment criteria.
CONCLUSION
Limited Level of Assurance
On the basis of the assessment undertaken, 
nothing has come to our attention to suggest 
that the disclosures are not fairly stated and 
are not prepared, in all material aspects, in 
accordance with the reporting criteria.
AA1000 ACCOUNTABILITY PRINCIPLES 
STANDARD (AA1000APS (2018)
1. Inclusivity
The participation of stakeholders in developing 
and achieving an accountable and strategic 
response to Sustainability. 
The Report brings out the stakeholders who 
have been identified as significant to JKH, as 
well as the modes of engagement established 
by the Company to interact with these 
stakeholder groups. The key topics of concern 
and needs of each stakeholder group which 
have been identified through these channels 
of engagement are further brought out in the 
Report. 
Nothing has come to our attention to 
suggest that the Report does not meet the 
requirements related to the Principle of 
Stakeholder Inclusiveness.
2. Materiality
The process of determining the issues that 
are most relevant to an organization and its 
stakeholders.
The Report explains out the materiality 
assessment process carried out by the 
Company which has considered concerns 
of internal and external stakeholders, and 
inputs from peers and the industry, as well as 
issues of relevance in terms of impact for JKH’s 
business. The list of topics has been prioritized, 
reviewed and validated, and the Company has 
indicated that there is no significant change 
in material topics from the previous reporting 
period.
Nothing has come to our attention to 
suggest that the Report does not meet the 
requirements related to the Principle of 
Materiality.
3. Responsiveness
The extent to which an organization responds 
to stakeholder issues.
The Report adequately brings out the 
Company’s policies, strategies, management 
systems and governance mechanisms in place 
to respond to topics identified as material 
and significant concerns of key stakeholder 
groups. Nothing has come to our attention 
to suggest that the Report does not meet 
the requirements related to the Principle of 
Responsiveness. However, going forward 
JKH may, based on its strategic priorities, 
identify and articulate its medium and long-
term sustainability targets and report its 
performance against these targets.
Nothing has come to our attention to 
believe that the Report does not meet the 
requirements related to the Principle of 
Responsiveness.
4. Impact
The level to which an organisation monitors, 
measures and is accountable for how its 
actions affect its broader ecosystems.
The Report brings out the key performance 
metrics, surveys and management processes 
used by JKH to monitor, measure and evaluate 
its significant direct and indirect impacts 
linked to identified material topics across the 
INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT
Company, its significant value chain entities 
and key stakeholder groups.
Nothing has come to our attention to 
suggest that the Report does not meet the 
requirements related to the Principle of Impact.
5. Reliability/Accuracy
The accuracy and comparability of 
information presented in the report, as well as 
the quality of underlying data management 
systems.
The Report brings out the systems and 
processes that the Company has set in 
place to capture and report its performance 
related to identified material topics across 
its reporting boundary. The majority of 
information mapped with data verified 
through our remote and onsite assessments 
with JKH’s management teams and process 
owners at the Corporate Office and sampled 
sites within the boundary of the Report were 
found to be fairly accurate and reliable. Some 
of the data inaccuracies identified in the 
report during the verification process were 
found to be attributable to transcription, 
interpretation, and aggregation errors. These 
data inaccuracies have been communicated 
for correction and the related disclosures were 
reviewed post correction.
Nothing has come to our attention to believe 
that the Report does not meet the principle of 
Reliability and Accuracy.
Additional principles as per DNV 
VeriSustain
6. Completeness
How much of all the information that has been 
identified as material to the organization and 
its stakeholders is reported?
The Report brings out the Company’s 
performance, strategies and approaches 
related to the environmental, social and 
governance issues that it has identified as 
material for its operational locations coming 
under the boundary of the report, for the 
chosen reporting period while applying and 
considering the requirements of Principle of 
Completeness.
Nothing has come to our attention to suggest 
that the Report does not meet the Principle of 
Completeness with respect to scope, boundary 
and time.
7. Neutrality/Balance
The extent to which a report provides a 
balanced account of an organization’s 
performance, delivered in a neutral tone.
The Report brings out the disclosures related 
to JKH’s performance during the reporting 
period in a neutral tone in terms of content 
and presentation, while considering the overall 
DNV-2004-ASR-695670	
PRJN-679475

377
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
macroeconomic and industry environment.
Nothing has come to our attention to 
suggest that the Report does not meet the 
requirements related to the Principle of 
Neutrality.
STATEMENT OF COMPETENCE AND 
INDEPENDENCE
DNV applies its own management standards 
and compliance policies for quality control, 
which are based on the principles enclosed 
within ISO IEC 17029:2019 – Conformity 
assessment – General principles are 
requirements for validation and verification 
bodies, and accordingly maintains a 
comprehensive system of quality control 
including documented policies and 
procedures regarding compliance with ethical 
requirements, professional standards, and 
applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
We have complied with the DNV Code of 
Conduct1 during the assurance engagement. 
DNV’s established policies and procedures 
are designed to ensure that DNV, its 
personnel and, where applicable, others 
are subject to independence requirements 
(including personnel of other entities of 
DNV) and maintain independence where 
required by relevant ethical requirements. 
This engagement work was carried out 
For DNV Business Assurance India Private Limited
by an independent team of sustainability 
assurance professionals. DNV was not involved 
in the preparation of any statements or 
data included in the Report except for this 
Assurance Statement for internal use of JKH.
PURPOSE AND RESTRICTION ON 
DISTRIBUTION AND USE
This assurance statement, including our 
conclusion has been prepared solely for the 
Company in accordance with the agreement 
between us. To the fullest extent permitted by 
law, we do not accept or assume responsibility 
to anyone other than the Management of the 
Company for our work or this report.
ANNEX I
‘Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 2021 standard disclosures’
-	 GRI 2: General Disclosures
- 	 GRI 3: Material Topics
--	 GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 – 201-1; 201-3
- 	 GRI 203; Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 – 203-1; 203-2
- 	 GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016 – 204-1
- 	 GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 – 205-1
- 	 GRI 207: GRI 207: Tax 2019 207-1; 207-2; 207-3; 207-4
-	 GRI 302: Energy 2016 – 302-1; 302-3; 302-4
-	 GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018 – 303-1; 303-2; 303-3; 303-4, 303-5 
- 	 GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016 - 304-1; 304-3
-	 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 – 305-1; 305-2; 305-4; 305-5; 305-6
-	 GRI 306: Waste 2020 – 306-1; 306-2; 306-3; 306-4; 306-5
-	 GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 – 308-1
-	 GRI 401: Employment 2016 – 401-1; 401-2; 401-3
-	 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018 – 403-1; 403-2; 403-3; 403-4; 
403-5; 403-6; 403-7; 403-8; 403-9
-	 GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 – 404-1; 404-2; 404-3 
-	 GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 – 405-1
- 	 GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016 – 407-1
- 	 GRI 408: Child Labor 2016 – 408-1
- 	 GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016 – 409-1
- 	 GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 – 413-1
- 	 GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 – 414-1
- 	 GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016 – 416-1
- 	 GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016 – 417-1; 417-2; 417-3
ANNEX II
Sites selected for On-site / Remote audits
Sl. No.
Site
Location
1
Corporate office
Remote audits for interaction with 
leadership teams
2
Retail - John Keells Office Automation 
(Pvt) Ltd
Corporate office: 90 Union Place, 
Colombo 02
Technical services: 148, Vauxhall street, 
Colombo 02
3
Retail - Keells Supermarket, Lauries 
(Duplication Road)
5, Lauries Place, Colombo 4
4
Retail - Keells Supermarket - 
Kaduwela
No. 66, New Kandy Road, Kaduwela
5
Hotels and Resorts Hotels and 
Resorts - Asian Hotels and Properties 
PLC – Cinnamon Grand
No. 77, Galle Road, Colombo 3
6
Consumer Foods - Ceylon Cold 
Stores PLC
Corporate office: No. 117, 
Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha, 
Colombo 02
Factory: Ceylon Cold Stores, Ranala
7
Transportation (Logistics) - John 
Keells Logistics (Pvt) Ltd
Corporate office: No. 117, Sir 
Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha, 
Colombo 02
Warehouse: No. 65, Kotugoda road, 
Seeduwa
8
Plantation sector
Corporate office: No. 186, Vauxhall 
street, Colombo 02
Factory: Neluwa-Medagama tea 
factory, Neluwa, Galle
DNV Corporate Governance & Code of Conduct - https://www.dnv.com/about/in-brief/corporate-governance.html
DNV-2004-ASR-695670	
PRJN-679475
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DNV Business Assurance India Private Limited is part of DNV – Business Assurance, a global provider of certification, verification, assessment and training services, helping customers to 
build sustainable business performance. www.dnv.com

378 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
GROUP DIRECTORY
Industry 
Group
Sector
Segment/
Business
Company Name
Nature
Incorporated Year & Country 
TRANSPORTATION 
Ports and Shipping
Colombo West International 
Terminal (Pvt) Ltd**
Ports & Shipping Services
2021
(PV00238709) 
Sri Lanka
Inchcape Mackinnon Mackenzie 
Shipping (Pvt) Ltd** 
Port agency services, project  
logistics and freight forwarding 
solutions
2021
(PV00235035) 
Sri Lanka
Mackinnon Mackenzie & Company 
(Shipping) Ltd
Shipping Agency representation & 
logistics services 
1973
(PB 359) 
Sri Lanka
Maersk Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. ** 
Shipping Agency representation & 
freight forwarding services
1992
(PV 2550)
Sri Lanka
South Asia Gateway Terminals (Pvt) 
Ltd **
Ports & Shipping Services
1998
(PV 326)
Sri Lanka
Transportation
Bunkering
Lanka Marine Services (Pvt) Ltd
Importer & supplier of heavy marine 
fuel oils
1993
(PV 475)
Sri Lanka
DHL Keells
DHL Keells (Pvt) Ltd **
International express courier services
1986
PV 1307
Sri Lanka
Logistics
John Keells Logistics (Pvt) Ltd
Integrated supply chain management
2006
PV318
Sri Lanka
Other
Mack International Freight (Pvt) 
Ltd
International freight forwarding and 
clearing & forwarding
1980
(PV 831)
Sri Lanka
Mackinnon Mackenzie and 
Company of Ceylon Ltd*
Foreign recruitment agents & 
consultants
1975
(PB 348)
Sri Lanka
Trans-Ware Logistics (Pvt) Ltd*
Renting of storage space
1994
(PV 3134)
Sri Lanka
Airlines
Mack Air (Pvt) Ltd
General sales agents for airlines in Sri 
Lanka
1980
(PV 868)
Sri Lanka
 
Mackinnons Travels (Pvt) Ltd
IATA accredited travel agent and travel 
related services
1971
(PV 1261)
Sri Lanka
Saffron Aviation (Pvt) Ltd
Domestic air line operations
2012
(PV 84728)
Sri Lanka
CONSUMER FOODS
Beverages
Ceylon Cold Stores PLC
Manufacture & Marketing of Beverages 
and frozen confectionery and the 
holding company of JayKay Marketing
1926 1941
(PQ 4)
Sri Lanka
Frozen 
Confectionery
The Colombo Ice Company (Pvt) 
Ltd
Manufacturing and Marketing of frozen 
confectionery
2016
(PV 113758)
Sri Lanka
Convenience 
Foods
John Keells Foods India (Pvt) Ltd* 
Marketing of Branded meat and 
convenience food products
2008
(U15122MH2008FTC180902) 
India
Keells Food Products PLC
Manufacturer and distributor of 
Processed meat, breaded meat & 
convenience food products. 
1982
(PQ 3)
Sri Lanka

379
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Addresses
Directors
Stated Capital & 
Effective Holding
No. 117, Sir Chittampalam A Gardiner Mawatha, 
Colombo 2.
Tel. 2475574
K N J Balendra, J G A Cooray, S Mehta, S Tripathy, U M Abhyankar,  
H Sundaram, K A Pathak, J S Khurana, A Z Hashim, K D Weerasinghe, G 
U K Algewattage, K D Bernard
USD 51,960,785 
34%
No. 11, York Street, Colombo 01 
Tel. (0)11 247 5420
A Z Hashim, K C Subasinghe, K D Weerasinghe, D N Pratt, A Pillai
Rs.27,420,000
60%
No. 4, Layden Bastian Road, Colombo 1 
Tel. 2475423
K D Weerasinghe,K C Subasinghe, A Z Hashim 
Rs.5,000,000
100%
Level 16 Park Land 33, Park Street, Colombo 2
Tel. 0114794800
Biju Ravi, Saman Kekulawala, Vikash Agarwal, W T Ellawala,  
Ahmed Zafir Hashim
Rs.10,000,000 
30%
Port of Colombo, P.O Box 141 Colombo 1 
Tel. 0112457500
K N J Balendra - Chairperson, J G A.Cooray, K D Weerasinghe, N W 
Tambiah, A Z Hashim, D P Gamlath,Yen-I Chang, J R Goldner,  
G U K Algewattage, S K Brandt, K D Bernard, N N Mawilmada,  
S C Deloor
Rs.3,788,485,900
42.19%
No 04, Leyden Bastian Road, Colombo 01
Tel. 2475410-421
A Z Hashim, K D Weerasinghe, D P Gamlath
Rs.350,000,000
99.44%
No. 148, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 2.
Tel. 2304304 / 4798600
K N J Balendra - Chairperson, A Z Hashim, S P Wall, S R Sivarama 
Rs.20,000,020 
50%
No. 117, Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha, 
Colombo 2.
Tel. 2475574
K D Weerasinghe, A Z Hashim 
Rs.200,000,000
100%
No. 11, York Street, Colombo 1
Tel. 7671671
K D Weerasinghe, K C Subasinghe, A Z Hashim
Rs.130,000,000
100%
No. 117, Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha, 
Colombo 2.
Tel. 2475509
K D Weerasinghe, A Z Hashim 
Rs. 12,440
100%
No. 11, York Street, Colombo 1
Tel. 2475545/539
 A Z Hashim, N N Mawilmada, K D Weerasinghe
Rs.220,000,080
100%
No. 11, York Street, Colombo 1
Tel. 2475375/2475335
K D Weerasinghe, K C Subasinghe, A Z Hashim 
Rs.12,500,000
100%
No. 186, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 2
Tel. 2318600
K D Weerasinghe, K C Subasinghe, A Z Hashim 
Rs.5,000,000
100%
No. 117, Sir Chittampalam A Gardiner Mawatha, 
Colombo 02.
Tel. 2475502
J G A Cooray - Chairperson, K D Weerasinghe, A Z Hashim, B A B 
Goonetilleke, K Balasundaram, H D Abeywickrema, C S W Anthony
Rs.622,179,000
40%
No.117,Chittampalam A,Gardiner 
Mawatha,Colombo - 02
Tel. 2318798
K N J Balendra - Chairperson, J G A Cooray, D P Gamlath, M Hamza, S T 
Ratwatte, R S W Wijeratnam, P N Fernando, K C Subasinghe
Rs.918,200,000
81.36%
No.117, Chittampalam A Gardiner Mawatha, 
Colombo - 02
Tel. 2306000
P N Fernando, D P Gamlath
Rs.1,700,000,000
81.36%
 Luthra and Luthra Chartered Accountants A 16 / 
9, Vasant Vihar, New Delhi -110057, India
Tel. 0091 1142591823, 0091, 1126148048, 
26151853, 26147365 Fax: +91-11-2614 5222
P N Fernando, D P Gamlath
Rs.220,294,544  
(INR 90,000,000)
88.63%
P.O Box 10,No.16, Minuwangoda Road, Ekala Ja-Ela
Tel. 2236317/ 2236364
K N J Balendra - Chairperson, J G A Cooray, D P Gamlath, S De Silva, 
I Samarajiva, P D Samarasinghe, P N Fernando
Rs.1,294,815,000 
88.63%

380 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
GROUP DIRECTORY
Industry 
Group
Sector
Segment/
Business
Company Name
Nature
Incorporated Year & Country 
RETAIL
Supermarket
JayKay Marketing Services (Pvt) Ltd
Owns and Operates the "Keells" chain 
of supermarkets and "Nexus Mobile" 
loyalty card programme.
1980
(PV 33)
Sri Lanka
Logipark International (Pvt) Ltd
Integrated Supply Chain Management
2018
(PV 201610)
Sri Lanka
New Energy 
Vehicles
John Keells CG Auto (Pvt) Ltd
Importing and selling New Energy 
Vehicles and providing after sales 
services
2023
(PV 285800)
Sri Lanka
Office 
Automation
John Keells Office Automation 
(Pvt) Ltd
Distributor/Reseller and Services 
Provider in Office Automation(OA), 
Retail Automation (RA) and Mobile 
Devices
1992
(PV 127)
Sri Lanka
LEISURE 
Hotel Management
Cinnamon Hotel Management Ltd
Operator & marketer of resort hotels
1974
(PB 7)
Sri Lanka
Cinnamon Hotel Management 
International (Pvt) Ltd*
Operator & marketer of overseas hotels 
& resorts
2018
(PV 131788)
Sri Lanka
John Keells Hotels PLC*
Holding company of group resort hotel 
companies in Sri Lanka & Maldives 
1979
(PQ 8)
Sri Lanka
Sentinel Realty (Pvt) Ltd**
Investment company for Hotel 
Development land
2011
(PV 80706)
Sri Lanka
Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts
Colombo 
Hotels
Asian Hotels and Properties PLC 
-Cinnamon Grand***
Owner & operator of the five star city 
hotel "Cinnamon Grand"
1993
(PQ 2)
Sri Lanka
Capitol Hotel Holdings Ltd
Developer of City Business Hotels 
2012
(PB 5013)
Sri Lanka
Trans Asia Hotels PLC
Owner & operator of the five star city 
hotel "Cinnamon Lakeside".
1981
(PQ 5)
Sri Lanka
Waterfront Properties (Pvt) Ltd***
Developer of Hotels,Apartments, 
offices & Shopping Malls
2011
(PV 82153)
Sri Lanka
Sri Lankan 
Resorts
Ahungalla Holiday Resorts (Pvt) 
Ltd*
Owner of real estate
2012
(PV 85046)
Sri Lanka
Beruwala Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
Owner & operator of "Cinnamon Bey" 
in Beruwala
2009
(PV 69678)
Sri Lanka
Ceylon Holiday Resorts Ltd 
-Bentota Beach Hotel 
Owner & operator of "Cinnamon 
Bentota Beach" in Bentota 
1966
(PB 40)
Sri Lanka
Habarana Lodge Ltd
Owner & operator of "Cinnamon 
Lodge" in Habarana
1978
(PB 38)
Sri Lanka
Habarana Walk Inn Ltd
Owner & operator of "Habarana Village 
by Cinnamon" in Habarana
1973
(PB 33)
Sri Lanka
Hikkaduwa Holiday Resorts (Pvt) 
Ltd
Owner & operator of "Hikka Tranz by 
Cinnamon" in Hikkaduwa
2010
(PV 71747) 
Sri Lanka
Indra Hotel and Resorts Kandy 
(Pvt) Ltd*
Owner of 216 - Key Hotel in Kandy
2017
(PV 124247) 
Sri Lanka

381
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Addresses
Directors
Stated Capital & 
Effective Holding
No.117,Chittampalam A,Gardiner 
Mawatha,Colombo - 02
Tel. 2316800
J G A Cooray - Chairperson, A Wanniarachchi, K C Subasinghe, 
N W Tambiah
Rs.1,198,000,000
81.36%
No. 117, Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha, 
Colombo 02.
Tel. 2475574
 A Wanniarachchi, K C Subasinghe, A Z Hashim 
Rs.1,058,750,000
81.36%
No. 117, Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha, 
Colombo 02.
Tel.
K N J Balendra, K C Subasinghe, P K Das, N K Chaudhary, J G A Cooray, 
Y T De Zoysa
Rs.400
50%
Corporate Office: 90 Union Place, Colombo - 2 
Technical Services:148 Vauxhall Street, 
Colombo - 2
Tel. 2313000, 2431576, 2445760
N W Tambiah, K C Subasinghe, D P Gamlath
 Rs.5,000,000
100%
No.117 Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha, 
Colombo - 02
Tel. 2306600, 2421101-8
M H Singhawansa, M R Svensson, K C Subasinghe
Rs.19,520,000
100%
No.117 Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha, 
Colombo - 02
C L P Gunawardane, M H Singhawansa, M R Svensson
Rs.500,000
100% 
No.117,Chittampalam A,Gardiner 
Mawatha,Colombo - 02
Tel. 2306600, 2421101-15
K N J Balendra – Chairperson, J G A Cooray, S Rajendra, M R Svensson, 
M H Singhawansa, A K Moonesinghe, K Gunasekera, H Premaratne
Rs.9,500,246,939
80.32%
No.117,Chittampalam A,Gardiner 
Mawatha,Colombo - 02
Tel. 2306600
B A B Goonetilleke - Chairperson
N N Mawilmada, C L P Gunewardane, K Balasundaram
Rs.132,288,080
40.16%
No. 77, Galle Road, Colombo 3
Tel. 2437437 /2497206
K N J Balendra - Chairperson, J G A Cooray, C L P Gunawardane, S 
Rajendra, M R Svensson, J Durairatnam, A S De Zoysa, A Nanayakkara 
Rs.3,345,118,012
78.56%
No.117,Chittampalam A,Gardiner 
Mawatha,Colombo - 02
Tel. 2306000
M S Weerasekera - Chairperson, M R Svensson, D A Kannangara, 
M D R Gunatilleke, L C H Leow, A J Pathmarajah, M D M Gunatileke, 
N N Mawilmada
Rs.1,168,800,100
19.47%
No. 115,Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha, 
Colombo 2.
Tel. 2491000
K N J Balendra - Chairperson, J G A Cooray, S Rajendra, 
C L P Gunawardane, M R Svensson, N L Gooneratne, 
H A J De S Wijeyeratne, S A Atukorale
Rs.1,112,879,750
82.74%
No.186, Vauxhall Street, Colombo - 02
Tel. 0112152100
K N J Balendra - Chairperson, J G A Cooray, S Rajendra, N N Mawilmada
Rs.225,511,899,875
99.10%
No.117,Chittampalam A,Gardiner 
Mawatha,Colombo - 02
Tel. 2306000
C L P Gunawardane, M H Singhawansa, M R Svensson
Rs.135,137,760
80.32%
Moragalla, Beruwala.
Tel. 034 2297000
C L P Gunawardane, M H Singhawansa, M R Svensson
Rs.2,338,150,000
79.78%
Galle Road, Bentota
Tel. 034 2275176 / 034 2275266
S Rajendra, C L P Gunawardane, M H Singhawansa, M R Svensson
Rs.2,845,469,318
79.83%
P.O Box 2, Habarana
Tel. 066 2270011-2/ 066 2270072
S Rajendra, C L P Gunawardane, M H Singhawansa, M R Svensson
Rs.341,555,262
78.99%
P.O Box 1, Habarana
Tel. 066 2270046-7/ 066 2270077
C L P Gunawardane, M H Singhawansa, M R Svensson
Rs.126,350,000
79.34%
P.O Box 1, Galle Road, Hikkaduwa
Tel. 091-2277023
C L P Gunawardane, M H Singhawansa, M R Svensson
Rs.1,062,635,460
79.60%
No. 273, Katugastota Road, Kandy
Tel. 081 2234346
Y S H I K Silva, Y S H R S Silva, Y S H H K Silva, S Rajendra, 
C L P Gunawardane
Rs.1,051,400,493
32.13%

382 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
GROUP DIRECTORY
Industry 
Group
Sector
Segment/
Business
Company Name
Nature
Incorporated Year & Country 
LEISURE
Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts
Sri Lankan 
Resorts
International Tourists and Hoteliers 
Ltd *
Owner of Cinnamon Bey
1973
(PB 17)
Sri Lanka
Kandy Walk Inn Ltd
Owner & operator of "Cinnamon 
Citadel" in Kandy
1979
(PB 395)
Sri Lanka
Nuwara Eliya Holiday Resorts (Pvt) 
Ltd *
Owner of real estate
2014
(PV 98357) 
Sri Lanka
Rajawella Hotels Company Ltd *
Owner of real estate
1992
(PB 92)
Sri Lanka
Resort Hotels Ltd *
Owner of real estate
1978
(PB 193) 
Sri Lanka
Trinco Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd
Owner & Operator of "Trinco Blu by 
Cinnamon" in Trincomalee
2009
(PV 69908)
Sri Lanka
Trinco Walk Inn Ltd*
Owner of Real Estate 
1984
(PB 168)
Sri Lanka
Wirawila Walk Inn Ltd*
Owner of Real Estate 
1994
(PB 89)
Sri Lanka
Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd
Owner & operator of "Cinnamon 
Wild" in Yala
1999
(PV 2868)
Sri Lanka
Maldivian 
Resorts
Fantasea World Investments (Pte) 
Ltd 
Owner & operator of "Cinnamon 
Hakuraa Huraa" in Maldives
1997
(C 143/97)
Maldives
John Keells Maldivian Resorts (Pte) 
Ltd
Hotel holding company in the Maldives
1996
(C 208/96) 
Maldives
Tranquility (Pte) Ltd
Owner and operator of "Cinnamon 
Dhoinveli" and "Cinnamon Velifushi" in 
Maldives
2004
(C 344/2004) 
Maldives
Travel Club (Pte) Ltd
Operator of "Ellaidhoo Maldives by 
Cinnamon" in Maldives
1992
(C 121/92)
Maldives
Destination Management
Cinnamon Holidays (Pvt) Ltd
Service providers of Inbound and 
outbound Tours
2015
(PV 107427)
Sri Lanka
Walkers Tours Ltd
Inbound tour operators
1969
(PB 249)
Sri Lanka
Whittall Boustead (Travel) Ltd 
Inbound tour operators
1977
(PB 112) 
Sri Lanka
PROPERTY 
Property Management
Asian Hotels and Properties PLC - 
Crescat. Boulevard, The Monarch, 
The Emperor.***
Developer of 'Crescat Residencies', 'The 
Monarch' & 'The Emperor' Residential 
Towers Developer and manager of 
'Crescat Boulevard ' shopping Mall
1993
(PQ 2)
Sri Lanka
John Keells Properties Ja-Ela (Pvt) 
Ltd
Developer of “Viman” Ja-Ela
2010
(PV 76068)
Sri Lanka

383
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Addresses
Directors
Stated Capital & 
Effective Holding
Moragalla, Beruwala
Tel. 2306600, 2421101-8
C L P Gunawardane, M H Singhawansa, M R Svensson
Rs.1,939,760,925
79.78%
No.124, Srimath Kuda Ratwatte Mawatha, Kandy
Tel. 081 2234365-6/ 081 2237273-4
C L P Gunawardane, M H Singhawansa, M R Svensson
Rs.115,182,009
79.03%
No.117,Chittampalam A,Gardiner 
Mawatha,Colombo - 02
Tel. 2306000
C L P Gunawardane, M H Singhawansa, M R Svensson
Rs.331,236,820
80.32%
No.117,Chittampalam A,Gardiner 
Mawatha,Colombo - 02
Tel. 2306000
C L P Gunawardane, M H Singhawansa, M R Svensson
Rs.37,000,585
80.32%
No.117,Chittampalam A,Gardiner 
Mawatha,Colombo - 02
Tel. 2306780, 2421101-8
C L P Gunawardane, M H Singhawansa, M R Svensson
Rs.8,849,150
79.60%
Sambativu, Uppuvelli, Trincomalee
Tel. 026 2222307 / 026 2221611
C L P Gunawardane, M H Singhawansa, M R Svensson
Rs.357,000,000
80.32%
Alles Garden, Uppuveli,Sampathiv Post, 
Trincomalee
Tel. 026 2222307 / 011 2306600
C L P Gunawardane, M H Singhawansa, M R Svensson
Rs.119,850,070
80.32%
No.117,Chittampalam A,Gardiner 
Mawatha,Colombo - 02
Tel. 2306780, 2421101-8
C L P Gunawardane, M H Singhawansa, M R Svensson
Rs.22,936,066
80.32%
P.O Box 1,Kirinda, Tissamaharama
Tel. 047 2239449-52
M A Perera - Chairperson, C L P Gunawardane, S Rajendra, M H 
Singhawansa, J A Davis, M R Svensson, N W Tambiah
Rs.319,427,600
75.33%
Meemu Atoll, Republic of Maldives
Tel. +9603336000
C L P Gunawardane, S Rajendra , M H Singhawansa, M R Svensson
Rs.341,573,190
80.32%
2nd Floor, H.Maizan Building, Sosun Magu, Male, 
Republic of Maldives
Tel. +9603336000
S Rajendra, C L P Gunawardane, M H Singhawansa, M R Svensson
Rs..3,978,671,681
80.32%
North Malé Atoll, Republic of Maldives
Tel. +9603336000
C L P Gunawardane, S Rajendra, M H Singhawansa, M R Svensson
Rs..552,519,608 
80.32%
North Ari Atoll, Republic of Maldives
Tel. +9603336000
C L P Gunawardane, S Rajendra, M H Singhawansa, M R Svensson
Rs.. 143,172,000
80.32%
No.117,Chittampalam A,Gardiner 
Mawatha,Colombo - 02
Tel. 2306000
C L P Gunawardane, M H Singhawansa, M R Svensson
Rs.200,000
80.32%
No.117,Chittampalam A,Gardiner 
Mawatha,Colombo - 02
Tel. 2306306
S Rajendra,C L P Gunawardane,  I N Amaratunga
Rs.51,374,200
98.05%
No.117,Chittampalam A,Gardiner 
Mawatha,Colombo - 02
Tel. 2306746
 S Rajendra, C L P Gunawardane, I N Amaratunga
Rs.250,410,000
100%
No.89, Galle Road, Colombo 3
Tel. 0112152100
K N J Balendra- Chairperson, J G A Cooray, C L P Gunawardane, 
S Rajendra, M R Svensson, J Durairatnam, A S De Zoysa, A Nanayakkara
Rs.3,345,118,012
78.56%
No.186, Vauxhall Street, Colombo - 02
Tel. 0112152100
N W R Wijewantha, N N Mawilmada
Rs.954,360,000
100%

384 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
Industry 
Group
Sector
Segment/
Business
Company Name
Nature
Incorporated Year & Country 
PROPERTY
Property Management
Keells Realtors Ltd *
Owner of Real Estates and rental of 
properties
1977
(PB 90)
Sri Lanka
Mackinnons Keells Ltd*
Rental of office spaces
1952
(PB 8)
Sri Lanka
Whittall Boustead (Pvt) Ltd - Real 
Estate Division 
Renting of office space
1958
(PV 31) 
Sri Lanka
Property Development
British Overseas (Pvt) Ltd
Developer of "7th Sense" Residential 
Tower
2011
(PV 80203)
Sri Lanka
Braybrooke Residential Properties 
(Pvt) Ltd *
Investor of Braybrooke Residential 
Towers (Pvt) Ltd
1998
(PV 19165)
Sri Lanka
Braybrooke Residential Towers 
(Pvt) Ltd *
Developer of 'TRI-ZEN' Residential 
Towers
2017
(PV 128387)
Sri Lanka
Glennie Properties (Pvt) Ltd *
Property Development 
2012
(PV 84278) 
Sri Lanka
J K Land (Pvt) Ltd *
Investment Company for Property 
Sector
2012
(PV 84272) 
Sri Lanka
J K Thudella Properties (Pvt) Ltd *
Owner of Real Estates and Rental of 
Properties
2018
(PV 129825) 
Sri Lanka
John Keells Residential Properties 
(Pvt) Ltd
Developer of "On320" Residential 
Towers
2010
(PV 75050) 
Sri Lanka
Rajawella Holdings Ltd
Operates an 18 hole, Donald Street 
Designed Golf Course in Digana
1991
(PB 27)
Sri Lanka
Vauxhall Land Developments (Pvt) 
Ltd *
Owner of Real Estates
2017
(PV 125587)
Sri Lanka
Waterfront Properties (Pvt) Ltd***
Developer of Hotels,Apartments, 
offices & Shopping Malls
2011
(PV 82153)
Sri Lanka
FINANCIAL SERVICES 
Insurance
Fairfirst Insurance Ltd **
Providers of Non Life insurance 
solutions
2014
(PV 99666/PB)
Sri Lanka
Union Assurance PLC 
Providers of Life insurance solutions
1987
(PQ 12)
Sri Lanka
Stock Broking
John Keells Stock Brokers (Pvt) Ltd
Share broking services
1979
(PV 89)
Sri Lanka
Banking
Nations Trust Bank PLC ** 
Commercial banking
1999
(PQ 118) 
Sri Lanka
GROUP DIRECTORY

385
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Addresses
Directors
Stated Capital & 
Effective Holding
No.186, Vauxhall Street, Colombo - 02
Tel. 0112152100
N W R Wijewantha, N N Mawilmada
Rs.75,000,000
95.81%
No. 4, Layden Bastian Road, Colombo 1
Tel. 0112152100
K M Thanthirige, N W R Wijewantha, N N Mawilmada
Rs.327,800,000
100%
No.186, Vauxhall Street, Colombo - 02
Tel. 0112152100
N W R Wijewantha, K C Subasinghe, N N Mawilmada
Rs.99,188,800
100%
No.186, Vauxhall Street, Colombo - 02
Tel. 0112152100
N W R Wijewantha, K C Subasinghe, N N Mawilmada, S P G N Rajapakse, 
D P Gamlath
Rs.1,000
61%
No.186, Vauxhall Street, Colombo - 02
Tel. 0112152100
Y S H R S Silva - Chairperson, S Rajendra, N N Mawilmada, D P Gamlath, 
Y S H I K Silva, C P Palansuriya, Y S H H K Silva
Rs.1,403,970,000
50%
No.186, Vauxhall Street, Colombo - 02
Tel. 0112152100
Y S H R S Silva - Chairperson, K N J Balendra, J G A Cooray, S Rajendra,
N N Mawilmada, Y S H I K Silva, A D B Talwatte, C P Palansuriya
Rs.3,636,900,000
50%
No.186, Vauxhall Street, Colombo - 02
Tel. 0112152100
 N N Mawilmada, D P Gamlath, N W R Wijewantha
Rs. 163,861,400
100%
No.186, Vauxhall Street, Colombo - 02
Tel. 0112152100
N W R Wijewantha, K C Subasinghe, N N Mawilmada
Rs.24,964,638,930
100%
No.186, Vauxhall Street, Colombo - 02
Tel. 0112152100
N W R Wijewantha, N N Mawilmada
Rs.453,467,620
100%
No.186, Vauxhall Street, Colombo - 02  
Tel. 0112152100
N W R Wijewantha, N N Mawilmada
Rs.925,200,000
100%
P O Box 7, Rajawella, Kandy
Tel. 0112152100
K N J Balendra - Chairperson, J G A Cooray, S Rajendra, N N Mawilmada, 
C B Thornton (Alt. C J Holloway), G R Bostock Kirk (Alt. E C Oxlade), 
S E Captain (Alt. R S Captain), B D N Jayatilake
Rs.784,690,140
49.85%
No.186, Vauxhall Street, Colombo - 02
Tel. 0112152100
K N J Balendra - Chairperson, J G A Cooray, N N Mawilmada, 
N W R Wijewantha
Rs.21,716,553,910
100%
No.186, Vauxhall Street, Colombo - 02
Tel. 0112152100
K N J Balendra - Chairperson, J G A Cooray, S Rajendra, N N Mawilmada
Rs.225,511,899,875
99.10%
Access Towers II, 14th Floor, No: 278/4, Union 
Place, Colombo 02
Tel. 0112428428
C Ratnaswami - Chairperson, A S Wijesinha, C D Wijegunawardene, 
S Malhotra, R M Prabhakar, S A J S Jayatilake
Rs.3,131,949,000
19.80%
No.20, St. Michaels' Road, Colombo 3
Tel. 0112990990
K N J Balendra - Chairperson, S Rajendra, D P Gamlath, D H Fernando, 
S A Appleyard, P T Wanigasekara
Rs.1,000,000,000
90%
No. 186,Vauxhall street, Colombo 02
Tel.0112306250, 0112342066-7
S Rajendra, D P Gamlath, R S Cader, A M Ali
Rs.57,750,000
90.04%
No. 242, Union Place, Colombo 2.
Tel. 0114313131
R S Cader - Chairperson, J C A D'Souza, R D Rajapaksa, N I R De Mel, 
S L Sebastian, C H A W Wickramasuriya, A R Fernando, 
R Shanmuganathan, C K Hettiarachchi, H D Gunetilleke, 
K C Subasinghe
Rs.11,426,882,000
32.57%

386 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
Industry 
Group
Sector
Segment/
Business
Company Name
Nature
Incorporated Year & Country 
OTHER, INCLUDING INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND PLANTATION SERVICES
Information Technology
IT Services
John Keells Information 
Technology (Pvt) Ltd
IT Consultancy & Professional Service 
1998
(PV 652)
Sri Lanka
IT Enabled 
Services
Infomate (Pvt) Ltd
IT enabled services
2005
(PV 921)
Sri Lanka
John Keells BPO Holdings Private 
Ltd * 
Holding company of BPO group 
companies
2006
(C 60882)
Mauritius
John Keells BPO International (Pvt) 
Ltd * 
Investment holding company
2007
(C 070137) 
Mauritius
John Keells BPO Solutions Lanka 
(Pvt) Ltd*
BPO operations in Sri Lanka
2006
(PV 3458) 
Sri Lanka
Plantation Services
John Keells PLC
Produce Broking and Real Estate 
Ownership
1960
(PQ 11)
Sri Lanka
John Keells Teas (Pvt) Ltd
Manager seven bought leaf tea 
factories
1979
(PV 522) 
Sri Lanka
John Keells Warehousing (Pvt) Ltd
Warehousing of Tea and Rubber
2001
(PV 638)
Sri Lanka
Tea Smallholder Factories PLC
Owner and operator of Bought Leaf 
factories
1991
(PQ 32)
Sri Lanka
Other
Facets (Pvt) Ltd *
Owner of real estate
1974
(PV 1048) 
Sri Lanka
J K Packaging (Pvt) Ltd*
Printing and packaging services 
provider for the export market
1979
(PV 1265)
Sri Lanka
John Keells Holdings PLC
Group holding company & function 
based services
1979
(PQ 14)
Sri Lanka
John Keells International (Pvt) Ltd *
Regional holding company providing 
administrative & function based 
services
2006
(PV 46)
Sri Lanka
John Keells Singapore (Pte) Ltd * 
International trading services
1992
(199200499C) 
Singapore
Keells Consultants (Pvt) Ltd
Company secretarial services to the 
group
1974
(PB3 / PV)
Sri Lanka
Mortlake (Pvt) Ltd *
Investment company
1962
(PV 756)
Sri Lanka
* The company is a non-operational company/ investment company/ holding company or owner of real estate. 
** The company has not been considered for sustainability reporting as the Group does not exercise management control over the entity.
***Legal entity has been captured in multiple locations given that there are operations under different segments.
GROUP DIRECTORY

387
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Addresses
Directors
Stated Capital & 
Effective Holding
No. 148, Vauxhall Street,Colombo 2.
Tel. 2300770-77
J G A Cooray - Chairperson, K D Weerasinghe, R Shanmuganathan
Rs.96,500,000
100%
No.4, Leyden Bastian Road, Colombo 1 
Tel. (94) 112149700
K D Weerasinghe, R Shanmuganathan
Rs.20,000,000
100%
IFS Court, 28, Cybercity, Ebene,Mauritius
Tel. (230) 467 3000
Z H Niamut, K Peerbocus, K D Weerasinghe
Rs.1,988,300,000
100%
IFS Court, 28, Cybercity,Ebene, Mauritius
Tel. (230) 467 3000
Z H Niamut, K Peerbocus, K D Weerasinghe 
Rs.1,616,700,008
100%
No.4, Leyden Bastian Road, Colombo 1 
Tel. (94) 2300770-77
K D Weerasinghe, R Shanmuganathan
Rs.335,797,260
100%
No. 186, Vauxhall street, Colombo 02
Tel. 2306000
K N J Balendra - Chairperson, J G A Cooray, K D Weerasinghe, 
A K Gunawardhana, C N Wijewardene, B A I Rajakarier, A Z Hashim
Rs.152,000,000
86.90%
No.117,Chittampalam A,Gardiner Mawatha, 
Colombo - 02
Tel. 2306546
K D Weerasinghe, K C Subasinghe, A Z Hashim
Rs.120,000
100%
No.93,1st Avenue, Muturajawela, Hendala, Wattala
Tel. 4819560
K D Weerasinghe, K C Subasinghe, A Z Hashim
Rs.120,000,000
86.90%
No.186, Vauxhall street, Colombo 02
Tel. 2149994 / 2335880
K N J Balendra – Chairperson, J G A Cooray, E H Wijenaike, 
A S Jayatilleke, S K L Obeyesekere, A K Gunaratne, A Goonetilleke, 
A Z Hashim
Rs.150,000,000
37.62%
No.117,Sir Chittampalam A Gardiner Mawatha 
,Colombo - 02
Tel. 2306000
K M Thanthirige, D P Gamlath
Rs.150,000
100%
No 148, Vauxhall street, Colombo 02
Tel. 2475308
K C Subasinghe, K D Weerasinghe, D P Gamlath
Rs.14,500,000
100%
No.117,Sir Chittampalam A Gardiner Mawatha, 
Colombo - 02
Tel. 2306000
K N J Balendra - Chairperson, J G A Cooray - Deputy Chairperson, 
D A Cabraal ,A N Fonseka, S S H Wijayasuriya, S A Coorey, 
D V R S Fernando
Rs.90,602,453,241
99.24%
No.117,Chittampalam A,Gardiner Mawatha, 
Colombo - 02
Tel. 2306000 /2421101-9
D P Gamlath, K M Thanthirige, N W Tambiah
Rs.1,991,600,000
100%
No.16 Collyer Quay, Level 21, Office Suit No.21-38, 
Singapore 049318
Tel. 65 63296409/ 65 68189150/ 65 96346593
J G A Cooray - Chairperson, K M Thanthirige, K C Subasinghe, 
D P Gamlath, R Ponnampalam
Rs.9,638,000
80%
No.117,Chittampalam A,Gardiner Mawatha, 
Colombo - 02
Tel. 2421101-9
K M Thanthirige, N W Tambiah, I V Gunasekera
Rs.160,000
100%
No. 148, Vauxhall Street,Colombo 2.
Tel. 2475308
K M Thanthirige, K C Subasinghe
Rs.5,500
100%

388 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING
Description
Rs.000
Reference
Page No Sri Lanka
India
Mauritius
Republic
of
Maldives
Singapore
Total
a) 	 All tax jurisdictions included in 
Consolidated Financial Statements
Note 21.10
322
b)
i.	
Names of the resident entities
Group Directory
378-387
ii. 	 Primary activities of the organization
Group Directory
378-387
iii. 	 Number of employees
14,610
 - 
 - 
 704 
 - 
 15,314 
iv. 	 Revenues from third-party sales
260,387,475
 - 
 - 
20,385,129
 - 280,772,604
v. 	 Revenues from intra-group 
transactions with other tax 
jurisdictions
vi. 	 Profit/loss before tax
17,665,096
2,262
38,352
299,389
8,825
18,013,924
vii. 	 Tangible assets other than cash and 
cash equivalents
456,011,367
 - 
 - 
49,697,012
35
505,708,414
viii. Corporate income tax paid on a cash 
basis
Not Applicable
ix. 	 Corporate income tax accrued on 
profit/loss
(4,873,295)
 - 
(5,689)
(29,074)
(1,071)
(4,909,128)
x. 	 Reasons for the difference between 
corporate income tax accrued on 
profit/loss and the tax due if the 
statutory tax rate is applied to profit/
loss before tax
Note 21.5
320
c) 	 The time period covered by the 
information reported in Disclosure  
207-4.
Year ended 31st 
March 2024
d)	 Capital expenditure incurred during 
the year
35,004,372
 - 
-
768,396
-
35,772,768
e)	 Community contribution
200,166
 - 
-
2,097
-
202,263
GRI - DISCLOSURE 207-4

389
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
GRI CONTENT INDEX
GRI 
STANDARD/  
OTHER 
SOURCE
DISCLOSURE
LOCATION
OMISSION
GRI 
SECTOR 
STANDARD 
REF. NO.
REQUIREMENT(S)  
OMITTED
REASON
EXPLANATION
General disclosures
GRI 2: General 
Disclosures 
2021
2-1 Organizational details
a, b, c, d - About us (7)
A gray cell indicates that reasons for omission are 
not permitted for the disclosure or that a GRI Sector 
Standard reference number is not available.
2-2 Entities included in the 
organization’s sustainability 
reporting
a, b, c - Group directory (378-387) 
Scope and boundary (5)
2-3 Reporting period, 
frequency and contact 
point
a, b, c - Corporate Information (Pg : 402) and 
Scope and boundary (5)
2-4 Restatements of 
information
a. Investor Relations - ESG Highlights (27-28)
2-5 External assurance
a. Information Verification and Quality 
Assurance 
b. i, ii, iii - Independent Assurance Statement
2-6 Activities, value 
chain and other business 
relationships
a. About Us (7) 
b. i. Supply Chain Management (101) and Full 
Industry groups section (135-204)  
ii. Supply Chain Management (101) 
iii. Industry Group Review  
c. Supply Chain Management (101) and 
Industry Group Review (135-204)  
d. Industry Group Review (135-204)
2-7 Employees
a, b, c, d - Diversity , Equity & Inclusion (80)  
e - Investor relations - Human capital (28)
2-8 Workers who are not 
employees
a, b -Diversity , Equity & Inclusion (83) 
c - Investor relations - Human capital (28)
2-9 Governance structure 
and composition
a, b - Internal Governance Structure (217) 
Board composition (218-219) 
Board Skills (290) 
Board Sub Committees (224) 
c i, ii, iii, v - Board composition (218-219) 
c iv - Details in respect of Directors (222) 
c vii, viii - Board Profile (207-208)
2-10 Nomination and 
selection of the highest 
governance body
a - Board Appointment (219) 
b - Board Diversity (248) 
Board Independence (248) 
Board Composition (219) 
Board Appointment (219) 
Board Skills (219) 
Nominations committee (227)
 
2-11 Chair of the highest 
governance body
a, b - Combined Chairperson - CEO Role (231)

390 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
GRI 
STANDARD/  
OTHER 
SOURCE
DISCLOSURE
LOCATION
OMISSION
GRI 
SECTOR 
STANDARD 
REF. NO.
REQUIREMENT(S)  
OMITTED
REASON
EXPLANATION
2-12 Role of the highest 
governance body 
in overseeing the 
management of impacts
a - Sustainability Governance (241-242) 
b i - Stakeholder Management and Effective 
Communication (239-240) 
Sustainability Governance 
c - Sustainability Governance (241-242)
2-13 Delegation of 
responsibility for managing 
impacts
a i ii - Group Executive Committee (232) 
Group Operating Committee (232) 
Other Management Committees (232) 
Employee Empowerment (232) 
Sustainability Governance (241-242) 
b - Group Executive Committee (232)
Group Operating Committee (232)
2-14 Role of the highest 
governance body in 
sustainability reporting
Introduction to the Integrated Report - Process 
of completing the Integrated Report (4)
2-15 Conflicts of interest
Ensuring Independence and Managing 
Conflict of Interest (221)
2-16 Communication of 
critical concerns
a - Chairperson Direct (290) 
Whilstle blower policy (245) 
Ombudsperson (247) 
Forensic data analytics to identify anomalies 
and facilitate behavioural oversight (246) 
Assurance Mechanisms (243) 
Internal Controls (245)  
b - Internal - Ombudsperson - Mandate and 
Role (247) 
External - Stakeholder management and 
effective communication (239-240) 
2-17 Collective knowledge 
of the highest governance 
body
Board Access to Independent Professional 
Advice (219) 
Board Induction and Training (219)
2-18 Evaluation of the 
performance of the highest 
governance body
a - Board evaluation (221) 
Chairperson - CEO Appraisal (231) 
b, c - Board Evaluation (221)
2-19 Remuneration policies
Director Remuneration (223) 
Human Resources and Compensation 
Committee (226)
2-20 Process to determine 
remuneration
a i, ii - Human Resources and Compensation 
Committee (226) 
Performance Based Compensation Philosophy 
(236) 
b Director Remuneration (223)
2-21 Annual total 
compensation ratio
Human capital review - compensation and 
benefits (84)
GRI CONTENT INDEX

391
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
GRI 
STANDARD/  
OTHER 
SOURCE
DISCLOSURE
LOCATION
OMISSION
GRI 
SECTOR 
STANDARD 
REF. NO.
REQUIREMENT(S)  
OMITTED
REASON
EXPLANATION
2-22 Statement on 
sustainable development 
strategy
Chairperson' Message (18) 
2-23 Policy commitments
a i to iv - JKH code of conduct (243) and 
Social and Relationship Capital - Supply Chain 
Management (102) 
 b - Business conduct and ethics (99) 
 c, d - Key Internal Policies (213) 
e, f - Supply Chain Management (101)
Greater Employee Involvement in Governance 
(249), JKH code of conduct (243) 
2-24 Embedding policy 
commitments
a i - Group Executive Committee and Other 
Management Committees (232) 
Assurance mechanisms (243) 
ii - Risk Management Process (237) 
Key Risks (113) 
iii - Project approval process (234) 
Supply Chain Management (101) 
iv - Board Induction and Training (219)  
Human capital review (81)
2-25 Processes to 
remediate negative 
impacts
Ombudsperson (247) 
Employee Participation in Assurance (244)
2-26 Mechanisms for 
seeking advice and raising 
concerns
Employee Participation in Assurance - Whistle-
blower policy (245)
2-27 Compliance with laws 
and regulations
a - Investor relations - ESG highlight - Social 
and relationship capital table - (28) 
b - (254) 
c - There were no significant fines reported 
d - Significant fines are defined as fines over  
Rs. 1 million.
2-28 Membership 
associations
Knowledge sharing and Policy Dialogues 
(97-99)
2-29 Approach to 
stakeholder engagement
Stakeholder Engagement (256-257)
2-30 Collective bargaining 
agreements
Collective Bargaining (84)
Material topics
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-1 Process to determine 
material topics
Introduction - Determining Materiality (5)
Stakeholder Engagement - Determining 
materiality (258-259)
A gray cell indicates that reasons for omission are 
not permitted for the disclosure or that a GRI Sector 
Standard reference number is not available.
3-2 List of material topics
a, b - Key Material Topics (259)
Economic performance

392 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
GRI 
STANDARD/  
OTHER 
SOURCE
DISCLOSURE
LOCATION
OMISSION
GRI 
SECTOR 
STANDARD 
REF. NO.
REQUIREMENT(S)  
OMITTED
REASON
EXPLANATION
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of 
material topics
Financial and manufacturing capital review - 
Management approach (366)
GRI 201: 
Economic 
Performance 
2016
201-1 Direct economic 
value generated and 
distributed
Economic Value Added Statement (368) 
201-2 Financial implications 
and other risks and 
opportunities due to 
climate change
Not material
201-3 Defined benefit 
plan obligations and other 
retirement plans
Employee benefit plans (84) 
Investor Relations - Human Capital (28)
Market presence
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of 
material topics
Not material
GRI 202: 
Market 
Presence 2016
202-1 Ratios of standard 
entry level wage by 
gender compared to local 
minimum wage
Not material
202-2 Proportion of senior 
management hired from 
the local community
Not material
Indirect economic impacts
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of 
material topics
Social and Relationship Capital Review - 
Management Approach (99-102)
GRI 203: 
Indirect 
Economic 
Impacts 2016
203-1 Infrastructure 
investments and services 
supported
Social and Relationship Capital Review -  
(89-102)
203-2 Significant indirect 
economic impacts
Social and Relationship Capital - (28) 
Social and Relationship Capital Review-  
(89-102)
Procurement practices
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of 
material topics
Social and Relationship capital review - 
management approach- Supply Chain 
Management (101)
GRI 204: 
Procurement 
Practices 2016
204-1 Proportion of 
spending on local suppliers
a - Social and Relationship Capital Review (89) 
b - The organization’s geographical definition 
of ‘local’ is defined as within geographical 
boundaries of Sri Lanka 
c - significant locations of operation’. is defined 
as the geographical country of headquarters 
of operations, an is the country of Sri Lanka
Anti-corruption
GRI CONTENT INDEX

393
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
GRI 
STANDARD/  
OTHER 
SOURCE
DISCLOSURE
LOCATION
OMISSION
GRI 
SECTOR 
STANDARD 
REF. NO.
REQUIREMENT(S)  
OMITTED
REASON
EXPLANATION
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of 
material topics
Social and Relationship capital review - 
management approach- business conduct and 
ethics- (99)
GRI 205: Anti-
corruption 
2016
205-1 Operations assessed 
for risks related to 
corruption
Investor relations - ESG Highlights - Social and 
Relationship Capital (28) 
Key Risks - Reputation and brand image risk 
(117)
205-2 Communication 
and training about anti-
corruption policies and 
procedures
Not material
205-3 Confirmed incidents 
of corruption and actions 
taken
Not material
Anti-competitive behaviour
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of 
material topics
Not material
GRI 206: Anti-
competitive 
Behaviour 
2016
206-1 Legal actions for 
anti-competitive behaviour, 
anti-trust, and monopoly 
practices
Not material
Tax
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of 
material topics
Financial and manufacturing capital review - 
Management approach (366) 
GRI 207: Tax 
2019
207-1 Approach to tax
Tax governance (239)
207-2 Tax governance, 
control, and risk 
management
 Tax governance (239)
Whistle blower Policy (245)
207-3 Stakeholder 
engagement and 
management of concerns 
related to tax
Tax governance (239)
207-4 Country-by-country 
reporting
Country by country reporting statement (388)
Materials	

394 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
GRI CONTENT INDEX
GRI 
STANDARD/  
OTHER 
SOURCE
DISCLOSURE
LOCATION
OMISSION
GRI 
SECTOR 
STANDARD 
REF. NO.
REQUIREMENT(S)  
OMITTED
REASON
EXPLANATION
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
GRI 301: 
Materials 2016
3-3 Management of 
material topics
Not material
301-1 Materials used by 
weight or volume
Not material
301-2 Recycled input 
materials used
Not material
301-3 Reclaimed products 
and their packaging 
materials
Not material
Energy
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of 
material topics
Natural Capital Review - Management 
Approach (76-78)
GRI 302: 
Energy 2016
302-1 Energy consumption 
within the organization
Energy Management - Group and industry 
group-wide performance comparison (64)
302-2 Energy consumption 
outside of the organization
Not material
302-3 Energy intensity
Energy Management - Group and industry 
group-wide performance comparison (64)
302-4 Reduction of energy 
consumption
 Energy Management - Energy efficiency (65)
302-5 Reductions in energy 
requirements of products 
and services
Not material
Water and effluents		
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of 
material topics
Natural Capital Review - Management 
Approach (76-78)
GRI 303: Water 
and Effluents 
2018
303-1 Interactions with 
water as a shared resource
a, b - Water and Effluents Management (67-68) 
c, d - 2023/24 Water and Effluent management 
Goals, initiatives and Progress ( 68)
303-2 Management of 
water discharge-related 
impacts
Water and Effluents Management - Effluent 
Treatment and Discharge (67-68)
303-3 Water withdrawal
a, c, d - Water and Effluents Management 
-Water withdrawal (67-68)
303-4 Water discharge
Water and Effluents Management -Group and 
industry group-wide performance comparison 
(67)
303-5 Water consumption
Water and Effluents Management -Group and 
industry group-wide performance comparison 
(67)
Biodiversity
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of 
material topics
Natural Capital Review - Management 
Approach (78)

395
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
GRI 
STANDARD/  
OTHER 
SOURCE
DISCLOSURE
LOCATION
OMISSION
GRI 
SECTOR 
STANDARD 
REF. NO.
REQUIREMENT(S)  
OMITTED
REASON
EXPLANATION
GRI 304: 
Biodiversity 
2016
304-1 Operational sites 
owned, leased, managed 
in, or adjacent to, protected 
areas and areas of high 
biodiversity value outside 
protected areas
Biodiversity (72-74)
304-2 Significant impacts 
of activities, products and 
services on biodiversity
Not material
304-3 Habitats protected or 
restored
Biodiversity - Biodiversity Initiatives (73-74)
304-4 IUCN Red List species 
and national conservation 
list species with habitats 
in areas affected by 
operations
Not material
Emissions	
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of 
material topics
Natural Capital Review - Management 
Approach (76-78)
GRI 305: 
Emissions 
2016
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG 
emissions
 Carbon Footprint - Group and industry group-
wide performance comparison (65)  
Management Approach (76-78)
305-2 Energy indirect 
(Scope 2) GHG emissions
Carbon Footprint - Group and industry group-
wide performance comparison (65)
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 
3) GHG emissions
Not material
305-4 GHG emissions 
intensity
Carbon Footprint - Group and industry group-
wide performance comparison (65-66) 
305-5 Reduction of GHG 
emissions
Carbon Footprint Goals, Initiatives and Progress 
(67)
305-6 Emissions of ozone-
depleting substances (ODS)
Carbon Footprint- Emissions of ozone-
depleting substance - (66)
305-7 Nitrogen oxides 
(NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), 
and other significant air 
emissions
Not material
Waste
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of 
material topics
Natural Capital Review - Management 
Approach (76-78)

396 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
GRI CONTENT INDEX
GRI 
STANDARD/  
OTHER 
SOURCE
DISCLOSURE
LOCATION
OMISSION
GRI 
SECTOR 
STANDARD 
REF. NO.
REQUIREMENT(S)  
OMITTED
REASON
EXPLANATION
GRI 306: Waste 
2020
306-1 Waste generation 
and significant waste-
related impacts
Waste Management (69) 
 Management Approach (76-78)
306-2 Management of 
significant waste-related 
impacts
Waste Management (69) 
Extended Product Responsibility (74-76) 
Management Approach (76-78)
306-3 Waste generated
Waste Management - Group and industry 
group wide performance comparison (69)
306-4 Waste diverted from 
disposal
Waste Management - Group and industry 
group wide performance comparison (69)
306-5 Waste directed to 
disposal
Waste Management - Group and industry 
group wide performance comparison (69)
Supplier environmental assessment
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of 
material topics
Social and Relationship Capital Review 
- Management Approach- Supply chain 
management (101)
GRI 308: 
Supplier 
Environmental 
Assessment 
2016
308-1 New suppliers that 
were screened using 
environmental criteria
Investor Relations - Social and Relationship 
Capital (28)
308-2 Negative 
environmental impacts 
in the supply chain and 
actions taken
Not material
Employment
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of 
material topics
Human Capital Review - Management 
Approach (86-88)
GRI 401: 
Employment 
2016
401-1 New employee hires 
and employee turnover
a, b - Talent Management (80)
Attrition (86)
401-2 Benefits provided 
to full-time employees 
that are not provided to 
temporary or part-time 
employees
a - Compensation and benefits - 84 
b - Sri Lanka and the Maldives are considered 
as significant locations of operations for the 
Group due to the nature of its operational 
presence
401-3 Parental leave
a, b, c, d, e, - Parental leave (84)
Occupational health and safety
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of 
material topics
Human Capital Review - Management 
Approach (86-88)
GRI 403: 
Occupational 
Health and 
Safety 2018
403-1 Occupational health 
and safety management 
system
Health and Safety (85) 
Management Approach (86-88)

397
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
GRI 
STANDARD/  
OTHER 
SOURCE
DISCLOSURE
LOCATION
OMISSION
GRI 
SECTOR 
STANDARD 
REF. NO.
REQUIREMENT(S)  
OMITTED
REASON
EXPLANATION
403-2 Hazard identification, 
risk assessment, and 
incident investigation
Management Approach (86-88)
403-3 Occupational health 
services
Management Approach 86-88)
403-4 Worker participation, 
consultation, and 
communication on 
occupational health and 
safety
Health and Safety (85) 
Management Approach (86-88)
403-5 Worker training on 
occupational health and 
safety
Health and Safety (85)
403-6 Promotion of worker 
health
Health and Safety (85)
403-7 Prevention and 
mitigation of occupational 
health and safety impacts 
directly linked by business 
relationships
Health and Safety (85) 
Management Approach (86-88)
403-8 Workers covered by 
an occupational health and 
safety management system
Health and Safety (85) 
Management Approach (86-88)
403-9 Work-related injuries
Health and Safety (85) 
Management Approach (86-88)
403-10 Work-related ill 
health
Not material
Training and education
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of 
material topics
Human Capital Review - Management 
Approach (86-88)
GRI 404: 
Training and 
Education 
2016
404-1 Average hours 
of training per year per 
employee
a i, ii - Learning & Development (81)
404-2 Programs for 
upgrading employee skills 
and transition assistance 
programs
Talent Management - Transition assistance (82)
Learning & Development (81)
404-3 Percentage of 
employees receiving 
regular performance 
and career development 
reviews
Performance Management (82)
Investor Relations, Human Capital (28)
Diversity and equal opportunity

398 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
GRI CONTENT INDEX
GRI 
STANDARD/  
OTHER 
SOURCE
DISCLOSURE
LOCATION
OMISSION
GRI 
SECTOR 
STANDARD 
REF. NO.
REQUIREMENT(S)  
OMITTED
REASON
EXPLANATION
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of 
material topics
Human Capital Review - Management 
Approach (86-88)
GRI 405: 
Diversity 
and Equal 
Opportunity 
2016
405-1 Diversity of 
governance bodies and 
employees
a, b - Human Capital (80)  
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (83)
405-2 Ratio of basic salary 
and remuneration of 
women to men
Not reported 
due to 
confidentiality 
constraints
Non-discrimination	
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of 
material topics
Not material
GRI 406: Non-
discrimination 
2016
406-1 Incidents of 
discrimination and 
corrective actions taken
Not material
Freedom of association and collective bargaining
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of 
material topics
Human Capital Review - Management 
Approach- Employee Relations and Collective 
bargaining (87)
GRI 407: 
Freedom of 
Association 
and Collective 
Bargaining 
2016
407-1 Operations and 
suppliers in which the right 
to freedom of association 
and collective bargaining 
may be at risk
Collective bargaining (84)
Child labour
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of 
material topics
Social and Relationship Capital Review - 
Management Approach- Business Conduct 
and Ethics (99), Policy on Child Labour (88)
GRI 408: Child 
Labour 2016
408-1 Operations and 
suppliers at significant risk 
for incidents of child labour
Investor Relations - Social and Relationship 
Capital (28)
Forced or compulsory labour
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of 
material topics
Social and Relationship Capital Review - 
Management Approach- Business Conduct 
and Ethics (99), Policy on Forced or 
Compulsory Labour (88)

399
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
399
GRI 
STANDARD/  
OTHER 
SOURCE
DISCLOSURE
LOCATION
OMISSION
GRI 
SECTOR 
STANDARD 
REF. NO.
REQUIREMENT(S)  
OMITTED
REASON
EXPLANATION
GRI 409: 
Forced or 
Compulsory 
Labour 2016
409-1 Operations and 
suppliers at significant risk 
for incidents of forced or 
compulsory labour
Investor Relations - Human Capital (28)
Security practices
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of 
material topics
Not material
GRI 410: 
Security 
Practices 2016
410-1 Security personnel 
trained in human rights 
policies or procedures
Not material
Rights of indigenous peoples	
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of 
material topics
Not material
GRI 411: Rights 
of Indigenous 
Peoples 2016
411-1 Incidents of 
violations involving rights 
of indigenous peoples
Not material
Local communities	
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of 
material topics
Social and Relationship Capital- Management 
Approach - Community Relations and Welfare 
(100)
GRI 413: Local 
Communities 
2016
413-1 Operations with local 
community engagement, 
impact assessments, and 
development programs
Social Responsibility (92)
413-2 Operations with 
significant actual and 
potential negative impacts 
on local communities
Not material
Supplier social assessment
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of 
material topics
Management Approach- Supply chain 
management (101)
GRI 414: 
Supplier Social 
Assessment 
2016
414-1 New suppliers that 
were screened using social 
criteria
Investor Relations - Social and Relationship 
Capital (28)
414-2 Negative social 
impacts in the supply chain 
and actions taken
Not material
Public policy
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of 
material topics
Not material
GRI 415: Public 
Policy 2016
415-1 Political 
contributions
Not material
Customer health and safety

400 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
GRI CONTENT INDEX
GRI 
STANDARD/  
OTHER 
SOURCE
DISCLOSURE
LOCATION
OMISSION
GRI 
SECTOR 
STANDARD 
REF. NO.
REQUIREMENT(S)  
OMITTED
REASON
EXPLANATION
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of 
material topics
Social and Relationship capital - Management 
Approach- Customer Relations and Product 
Responsibility (101-102)
GRI 416: 
Customer 
Health and 
Safety 2016
416-1 Assessment of the 
health and safety impacts 
of product and service 
categories
Management Approach- Customer Relations 
and Product Responsibility (101-102)
416-2 Incidents of non-
compliance concerning the 
health and safety impacts 
of products and services
Not material
Marketing and labelling
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of 
material topics
Social and Relationship capital - Management 
Approach- Customer Relations and Product 
Responsibility (101 - 102)
GRI 417: 
Marketing and 
Labelling 2016
417-1 Requirements 
for product and service 
information and labelling
Product labelling and responsible 
communication (90) 
Investor Relations - ESG Highlights - Social and 
Relationship Capital (28)
417-2 Incidents of non-
compliance concerning 
product and service 
information and labelling
Investor Relations - ESG Highlights - Social and 
Relationship Capital (28)
417-3 Incidents of non-
compliance concerning 
marketing communications
Investor Relations - ESG Highlights - Social and 
Relationship Capital (28)
Customer privacy	
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of 
material topics
Not material
GRI 418: 
Customer 
Privacy 2016
418-1 Substantiated 
complaints concerning 
breaches of customer 
privacy and losses of 
customer data
Not material

401
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
Notice is hereby given that the Forty Fifth Annual General Meeting (AGM) of John Keells Holdings PLC (the Company) will be held as a virtual meeting 
on 28 June 2024 at 10.00 a.m. 
The business to be brought before the Meeting will be to:
1.	 read the Notice convening the Meeting. 
2. 	 receive and consider the Annual Report and Financial Statements for the Financial Year ended 31 March 2024 with the Report of the Auditors 
thereon.  
3. 	 re-elect as a Director, Dr. S S H Wijayasuriya who retires in terms of Article 84 of the Articles of Association of the Company. A brief profile of  
Dr. S S H Wijayasuriya is contained in the Profiles section of the Annual Report.
4. 	 re-elect as a Director, Dr. S A Coorey who retires in terms of Article 84 of the Articles of Association of the Company. A brief profile of Dr. S A Coorey 
is contained in the Profiles section of the Annual Report. 
5. 	 re-elect as a Director, Mr. D V R S Fernando who retires in terms of Article 91 of the Articles of Association of the Company. A brief profile of  
Mr. D V R S Fernando is contained in the Profiles section of the Annual Report.  
6. 	 re-appoint the Auditors and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
7. 	 consider any other business of which due notice has been given in terms of the relevant laws and regulations.
The Annual Report of John Keells Holdings PLC for 2023/24, is accessible via:
(1) 	 The Corporate Website – https://www.keells.com/investor-relations/#latest-financials
(2) 	 The Colombo Stock Exchange – https://www.cse.lk/pages/company-profile/company-profile.component.html?symbol=JKH.N0000
(3) 	 The following QR Code (accessible through mobile devices):
Should Members wish to obtain a hard copy of the Annual Report 2023/24, they may send a request to the Company by filling the Form of Request 
attached to the Form of Proxy. A printed copy of the Annual Report will be forwarded by the Company within eight (8) market days, subject to the 
prevailing circumstances at the time, from the date of receipt of the request.
By Order of the Board
John Keells Holdings PLC
Keells Consultants (Private) Limited
Secretaries
21 May 2024
NOTICE OF MEETING - ANNUAL GENERAL 
MEETING
NOTES: 
i. 	
A Member unable to attend the Meeting is entitled to appoint a Proxy to attend and vote in their place.
ii. 	 A Proxy need not be a Member of the Company.
iii. 	 A Member wishing to vote by Proxy at the Meeting may use the Form of Proxy enclosed herein.
iv. 	 Members are encouraged to vote by Proxy through the appointment of a member of the Board of Directors to vote on their behalf and to include 
their voting preferences on the resolutions to be taken up at the Meeting in the Form of Proxy. 
v. 	 In order to be valid, the completed Form of Proxy must be lodged at the Registered Office of the Company not less than 48 hours before the Meeting.
vi. 	 A vote can be taken on a show of hands or by a poll. If a poll is demanded, each share is entitled to one vote. Votes can be cast in person, by proxy 
or corporate representatives. In the event an individual Member and their Proxy holder are both present at the Meeting, only the Member’s vote is 
counted. If the Proxy holder’s appointor has indicated the manner of voting, only the appointor’s indication of the manner to vote will be used.
vii. 	 Instructions as to attending the virtual Meeting are enclosed.

402 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
CORPORATE INFORMATION
NAME OF COMPANY
John Keells Holdings PLC
LEGAL FORM
Public Limited Liability Company
Incorporated in Sri Lanka in 1979
Ordinary Shares listed on the Colombo Stock Exchange 
COMPANY REGISTRATION NO.
PQ 14
DIRECTORS
K N J Balendra - Chairperson/CEO
J G A Cooray - Deputy Chairperson/Group Finance Director
D A Cabraal
S A Coorey
D V R S Fernando 
A N Fonseka
S S H Wijayasuriya
SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR
A N Fonseka
AUDIT COMMITTEE
A N Fonseka - Chairperson 
D A Cabraal
D V R S Fernando
HUMAN RESOURCES AND COMPENSATION COMMITTEE
D A Cabraal - Chairperson 
S S H Wijayasuriya
NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE
D A Cabraal - Chairperson 
K N J Balendra
S A Coorey
S S H Wijayasuriya
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTION REVIEW COMMITTEE
A N Fonseka - Chairperson
D A Cabraal
D V R S Fernando
PROJECT RISK ASSESSMENT COMMITTEE
S S H Wijayasuriya - Chairperson 
K N J Balendra
J G A Cooray
REGISTERED OFFICE OF THE COMPANY
117 Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha,
Colombo 2, Sri Lanka
Telephone	 :	 +94 11 230 6000
Internet	
:	 www.keells.com
Email	
:	 jkh@keells.com
*	 The GDR programme has been terminated. 6-month cancellation 
period for GDR Holders to convert their GDRs to shares lapses on  
14 June 2024.
 
SECRETARIES
Keells Consultants (Private) Limited
117 Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha, 
Colombo 2, Sri Lanka
Telephone 	 :	 +94 11 230 6245
Facsimile 	
: 	+94 11 243 9037
Email 	
: 	keellsconsultants@keells.com
INVESTOR RELATIONS
John Keells Holdings PLC
117 Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha,
Colombo 2, Sri Lanka
Telephone 	 : 	+94 11 230 6170
Facsimile 	
: 	+94 11 230 6160
Email 	
: 	investor.relations@keells.com
SUSTAINABILITY, ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT AND GROUP 
INITIATIVES
186 Vauxhall Street,
Colombo 2, Sri Lanka
Telephone 	 : 	+94 11 230 6182
Email 	
: 	sustainability@keells.com
CONTACT FOR MEDIA
Corporate Communications Division
John Keells Holdings PLC
117 Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha,
Colombo 2, Sri Lanka
Telephone 	 : 	+94 11 230 6191
Email 	
: 	jkh@keells.com
AUDITORS
Ernst & Young Chartered Accountants
P.O. Box 101
Colombo, Sri Lanka
BANKERS FOR THE COMPANY
Bank of Ceylon 
Citibank N.A.
Commercial Bank of Ceylon 
Deutsche Bank A.G.
DFCC Bank
Hatton National Bank
Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation
National Development Bank
Nations Trust Bank
People’s Bank
Sampath Bank
Seylan Bank
Standard Chartered Bank
DEPOSITORY FOR GDRS*
Citibank N.A. New York

403
Navigating Our Value Creation Journey
• Group Highlights • Management Discussion and Analysis • Governance • Financial Statements • Supplementary Information
FORM OF PROXY-ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
I/We........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ of
...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................being a member/s of John Keells Holdings 
PLC hereby appoint 
....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................of 
.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................or failing him/her
MR. KRISHAN NIRAJ JAYASEKARA BALENDRA 	
	
or failing him
MR. JOSEPH GIHAN ADISHA COORAY 	
	
or failing him
MR. DAMIEN AMAL CABRAAL 	
	
or failing him
MR. ANTHONY NIHAL FONSEKA 	
	
or failing him
DR. SHRIDHIR SARIPUTTA HANSA WIJAYASURIYA 	
	
or failing him
DR. SHARMINI AMRITA COOREY	
	
or failing her
MR. DEVENI VIDANALAGE RENUK SUREN FERNANDO
as my/our proxy to represent me/us and vote on my/our behalf at the Forty Fifth Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on 28 June 2024 
at 10.00 a.m. and at any adjournment thereof, and at every poll which may be taken in consequence thereof.
I/We, the undersigned, hereby direct my/our proxy to vote for me/us and on my/our behalf on the specified Resolution as indicated by the letter “X” in 
the appropriate cage:
For
Against Abstained
To re-elect as a Director, Dr. S S H Wijayasuriya, who retires in terms of Article 84 of the Articles of Association of the 
Company.
To re-elect as a Director, Dr. S A Coorey who retires in terms of Article 84 of the Articles of Association of the Company.
To re-elect as a Director, Mr. D V R S Fernando who retires in terms of Article 91 of the Articles of Association of the 
Company.
To re-appoint the Auditors and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
Signed on this ………………… day of …………………… Two Thousand and Twenty-Four.
…………………………….
Signature/s of Shareholder/s
NOTE:
INSTRUCTIONS AS TO THE COMPLETION OF THE FORM OF PROXY ARE NOTED ON THE REVERSE.

404 
John Keells Holdings PLC   Annual Report 2023/24
INSTRUCTIONS AS TO COMPLETION OF PROXY
1. 	 Please perfect the Form of Proxy by filling in legibly your full name and address, signing in the space provided and filling in the date of signature.
2. 	 The completed Form of Proxy should be deposited at the Registered Office of the Company, at No. 117, Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha, 
Colombo 2, or forwarded by fax to +94 11 243 9037, or e-mailed to keellsconsultants@keells.com no later than 48 hours before the time appointed 
for the convening of the Meeting.
3. 	 If the Form of Proxy is signed by an Attorney, the relevant Power of Attorney should accompany the completed Form of Proxy for registration, if 
such Power of Attorney has not already been registered with the Company.
4. 	 If the appointor is a company or corporation, the Form of Proxy should be executed under its Common Seal or by a duly authorised officer of the 
company or corporation in accordance with its Articles of Association or Constitution.
5. 	 If this Form of Proxy is returned without any indication of how the person appointed as Proxy shall vote, then the Proxy shall exercise their 
discretion as to how they vote or, whether or not they abstain from voting.
Please fill in the following details: 
Name	
: ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Address	
: ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
	
 ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
	
 ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Jointly with	
: ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Share Folio No	: ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................	
 	
NIC No.	
: ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Designed & produced by
Digital Plates & Printing by Softwave Printing and Packaging (Pvt) Ltd

www.keells.com
